ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). Happy New Year to all. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 22 December 2018. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the 3rd Permanent Commission, Senator Petrocelli, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on draft laws no. 257 and 702.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u4	Mr President, at 6 p.m. yesterday evening, at 6 p.m., the Commission agreed to go further and therefore postponed the examination of the measure. So today we are not yet in a position to bring to the House the draft law ratifying the Lighthouse Convention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u7	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, first of all, I wish you and all your colleagues a good return and a good job. As you know, Mr President, on several occasions in the Conference of Leaders we discussed the ratification of the Faro Convention, and the first request for a timetable for the draft law took place at the end of October last year. Therefore, the subject is known to us and to all our fellow group leaders; since it is an issue of absolute importance, we have decided together to schedule the bill. We take note of President Petrocelli's words, but - at the same time - we would like to better understand what is happening. I understand that there is a desire and will for a discussion with the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities as well, and I therefore ask the President of the Commission if he intends to hear from the representatives in the next few hours. In addition, as Head of the Democratic Party, I would like to see the date of the postponement of the timetable in the House of the measure. Given that the accession and will of all the group leaders on the debate in this House had already been expressed, I would like to better understand the timing and the way in which we intend to proceed, stressing and also appreciating the President's willingness, in a constructive way, to bring the measure to the House soon. We would therefore need more details from the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u8	Mr Marcucci, as far as I am concerned, I believe that the next meeting of the Conference of Leaders will be the venue for dealing with this issue. For the rest, there are no additions. I too know the draft law ratifying the Faro Convention, because it is constantly being called up at every meeting of the Conference of Leaders. Mr Petrocelli, there is a desire to overcome the problems that have been encountered so far and to conclude the process.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u9	Mr President, in my speech I have indicated the state of the art at this time. An additional route is not provided in detail. We will complete our work. Yesterday, the Commission, unanimously, decided to go further, but we are not able today to know whether we will need more than just a few sessions or whether we will need more. We will update the leader of the Democratic Party, Senator Alfieri, as soon as we have the necessary elements.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u12	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, in fact, the Conference of Leaders had decided that the draft law should arrive in this House regardless of the conclusion of the work in the Commission (in other words, no timetable had been provided for where the Commission had concluded). Let me put it this way: we really want this measure to come to the House. We very much hope that a measure of this importance, which concerns the future and culture of our country, and in a more universal reading, will arrive in this House and have the approval of all political forces, in particular by majority, as this is the spirit with which we have debated the subject until today. We are changing the timetable, and at this point I am putting forward the need, which the Presidency will assess within a reasonable time, to take note of the statements made by the President of the Commission, which go beyond the intentions of the Conference of Leaders (which, I repeat, had scheduled the measure regardless of the Commission's work) and I would ask that a meeting of the Conference of Leaders be held during the course of this week, however, in order to define the new timetable. This may also be useful for the President of the Commission to determine the time taken to come to the conclusion of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u13	We will pass on this request to the Presidency and, of course, the Conference of Leaders will take this into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 926, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Taverna, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u15	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, for the ratification of the Additional Protocol on liability and compensation for the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety. First of all, I would like to point out that a bill of ratification of the same Protocol had already been examined and approved in the last parliamentary term by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, after its approval by the House of Deputies, but could not see its examination process completed because of the end of the legislature. The Cartagena Protocol, in force since 2003, is the first instrument implementing the previous Convention on Biodiversity of 1992 and deals specifically with aspects related to environmental and health safety related to the use of genetically modified organisms. It aims to ensure safety in the transfer, handling and use of those modified living organisms which may have a negative impact on biodiversity, including the risks to human health and the transboundary movements of those organisms. By the modified living organism, Article 3 of the Cartagena Treaty refers to any living organism which has an unprecedented combination of genetic material, obtained using modern biotechnology through the application of in vitro techniques. In addition, Cartagena was expected to start a process for drawing up international rules and procedures on liability and compensation for damage caused by the cross-border movement of living modified organisms. This process, initiated in the Malaysian city of Kuala Lumpur since 2004, led to the signing, in October 2010, in the Japanese city of Nagoya, of the Additional Protocol now before our examination, signed by the European Union on 11 May 2011 and by Italy on 14 June 2011. The Protocol, which consists of a preamble and 21 articles, adopts an administrative approach in order to identify response measures in the event of damage or of sufficient probability of damage to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms. Specifically, Article 1 sets out the objective of the Additional Protocol. Article 2, in providing a picture of the definitions used, identifies, inter alia, in the damage, a negative effect on measurable or observable biodiversity on a scientifically sound basis by a competent authority (taking into account possible changes in man and the natural environment), as well as significant, or related to a long-term or even permanent change in the components of biodiversity. The scope of the Additional Protocol, as identified in Article 3, is that relating to damage caused by modified living organisms originating in a cross-border movement, in particular as regards modified living organisms intended for direct use in human or animal nutrition, as well as those intended for contained use or intended for intentional introduction into the environment. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law, or other international obligations entered into by our country. Finally, I would like to stress that, as has already emerged during the examination of the measure in the Chamber of Deputies, this international instrument represents a necessary completion of the architecture designed by the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity and the related Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. In fact, the ratio at the basis of the responsibilities and compensation forecasts is fully acceptable. In this context, I am referring in particular to the desire to build a virtuous relationship between the development and application of modern biotechnology and to the parallel need for concrete protection and protection of all aspects of biological diversity at international level. In view of the above, I would like the Assembly to approve the draft law of ratification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u16	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Colleagues, awaiting the end of twenty minutes from the beginning of the sitting referred to in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.51 and resumed at 10.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u19	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the Democratic Group's vote in favour because we believe that the protection and protection of biological diversity is a problem that affects all the nations of the world, so we need to have common rules that allow for the implementation of security and protection systems. The Cartagena Protocol, in fact, deals specifically with aspects related to environmental and health safety related to the use of genetically modified organisms, proposing to ensure the safety in the transfer, handling and use of modified living organisms that may have a negative impact on biodiversity or endanger human health. Cartagena was planned to launch a process for the development of international rules and procedures on liability and compensation for damage resulting from the cross-border movement of living modified organisms. With this protocol that we are about to ratify in the Senate today, the foundations are laid for the identification of specific response measures in the event of damage or of sufficient probability of damage to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity. Sustainability and the protection of biological diversity are two priorities that we cannot underestimate in order to guarantee our future, our children and the whole world. For these reasons, ratification of this protocol is a significant step forward so that the Government and the agencies in charge can put in place further mechanisms for environmental protection and protection. I therefore confirm the vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u22	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we too are on this line and will vote in favour of the bill. It is obvious that, during the sitting we had yesterday in the Commission, we had cast an abstention vote. After confronting us, we made further assessments. In essence, since the fundamental objective is to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking into account also the health risks and the risks to the ecosystem - hence responsibility and compensation - we felt it appropriate to vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. In particular, the bill tends not only to inform but also to assess the damage that all of this can entail, to take appropriate response measures by identifying those responsible, i.e. who caused the damage, assessing the extent of the damage. For these reasons, we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u25	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will be voting in favour of the draft law, partly because I would like to remind you that this is a very important ratification, which we have been waiting for a very long time. Above all, it is important for Italy because our country was perhaps one of the first to put GMOs under observation, so even more so in Europe it fought for safety. It is therefore a very important protection for our country. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u28	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I wish all our colleagues a happy 2019. The issue of ratification is very important because it is one of those that has brought us closer to politics. Many of us have also been interested in the world of politics for the protection of biodiversity. It is a theme that has made us aware that it is a value that must be defended, also because the specificities of national products around the world, especially in the food field, are a weapon to defeat the monster of globalization that we had identified during the nineties and two thousand. It is precisely the specificity and biodiversity that enable us to overcome indiscriminate globalisation and the Protocol under consideration is in this direction establishing an important legal perimeter. Indeed, there will be greater legal certainty and transparency in relation to the protection of biodiversity, especially with regard to end-users and those identified as suppliers who are very often indigenous peoples. There are, in particular, three important elements that I would like to highlight in this Additional Protocol: the protection and conservation of biodiversity, as mentioned above, greater sustainable use of these biodiversity and, above all, a fair distribution of the benefits of the use of certain substances. The issue of fair distribution, perhaps also addressed to indigenous peoples and, therefore, not to large markets, is very important and I think it is significant that an issue of this importance comes to this House. That is why we are very pleased and, therefore, I am not only voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, but also pleased that we have all succeeded in bringing such a sensitive and important issue to this House. I think it is an important sign that the Government and Parliament are giving at this time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u29	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u30	The next item is the debate on draft law No 927, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Taverna, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u31	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, for the ratification and implementation of the Agreement on the Protection of the Marine and Coastal Environment of a Mediterranean Sea Area (the so-called RAMoge Agreement) between Italy, France and the Principality of Monaco, signed in Munich in May 1976 and amended in November 2003. First of all, I recall that a bill of ratification of the same Agreement had already been examined and approved in December 2017 by the Foreign Commission of the Senate, after its approval by the Chamber of Deputies, but could not see its examination process completed for the conclusion of the XVII legislature. The agreement under consideration, aimed at limiting marine pollution in the Mediterranean with the creation of a pilot zone through sub-regional cooperation, was originally delimited to an area that went from Genoa to Saint-Raphael - from which the acronym referring to the localities of Saint-Raphael, Monaco and Genoa - then extended to the territorial perimeter of sea in front of the French region of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and the Liguria Region up to La Spezia. In 1993, with the implementation of the Ramogepol Plan, the Ramoge Agreement also extended its powers to the high seas. In more than forty years of activity, RAMOGE has gained a solid experience in the fight against marine and coastal pollution and in the protection of biodiversity, making a strong commitment to raising young people's awareness of the marine environment. Compared to the 1976 text, the new agreement, which is consistent with the existing national legal order and the international legal framework for the protection of the marine environment, since the 1976 Barcelona Convention, introduces important new elements, extending its competence to the aspects of prevention and the fight against pollution and degradation of the coastal area, as well as the marine environment, and to the protection of biodiversity. Composed of a preamble and fourteen articles, the Agreement provides for the establishment of a Commission composed of the delegations of the three parties, each of which designates a maximum of seven delegates, and sets out the new definition of the RAMOGE area, including territorial areas, providing that the Commission may further extend the geographical limits for the performance of its missions. The subsequent Articles govern the mission and tasks of the Commission, providing that it is called upon to establish closer cooperation between the competent departments of the three Contracting Parties and their respective territorial authorities for the purposes provided for in the Agreement. As regards the financial aspects, the text provides that each of the Contracting Parties shall assume the costs of their representation in the RAMoge Commission and its Committees, in addition to the costs of research carried out on its territory and the implementation of the various recommendations (Article 12). It should also be noted that the budget of the Agreement consists of the ordinary contributions of the parties fixed, as regards the amount, by the RAMOGE Commission, as well as voluntary contributions the acceptance of which is also approved by the Commission's Steering Committee, and that expenditure of common interest is subject to the budget of the Agreement. The ordinary contribution to Italy, approved by the RAMOGE Commission in 2003, amounts to little more than 36,000 euros per year, to whose coverage already provides a special appropriation that insists on a specific chapter of the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. The technical report, attached to the measure, points out that the implementation of the Agreement will not result in any new or increased burden on public finance. Moreover, the Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations entered into by our country. I should like to conclude by saying that, as my colleagues in the House of Deputies have pointed out, since the 1990s, the parties to this Agreement have also been working together on the organisation of annual joint anti-pollution exercises in order to better combat the additional potential risk arising from accidental marine pollution. It is therefore essential to strengthen all forms of virtuous cooperation at international level and, the instrument under consideration, fits harmoniously into an architecture of increased collaboration in strategic areas such as environmental protection. In view of what has been described, I therefore hope that this measure will be approved swiftly by the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u32	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u35	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, my fellow senators and my fellow senators, I think we can only welcome the ratification of an agreement to limit marine pollution in the Mediterranean. Environmental protection systems cannot be limited to the national borders of a country and the conclusion of the RAMoge Agreement is proof of this; Italy, France and the Principality of Monaco combine ideas, resources and strategies to protect a stretch of sea and coast among the most beautiful in the world. After forty years of experience, the RAMoge Agreement also extends to the high sea and to a wider stretch of coastline, the fight against marine and coastal pollution and biodiversity protection systems. The new Agreement introduces other important new elements, including the extension of its scope of competence to prevent and combat pollution and degradation of the coastal area, as well as the marine environment and the protection of biodiversity. Since the years Ninety Italy has participated in the organization of annual anti-pollution exercises and enhanced forms of cooperation for pollution prevention and environmental protection. The ratification of the new Agreement is therefore part of a strategy of increased international cooperation for the protection of the environment and the prevention of pollution. For these reasons, too, I confirm the support of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of my Group will vote in favour of the ratification of the Ramoge Agreement, not just because they consider it a necessary act. I would like to remind you that the agreement was concluded in 1976 and then amended in 2003. So here too, as with previous ratification, we must make up for lost time. This is a very important act with regard to the prevention and fight against pollution of the sea and for the defence of marine biodiversity, which is important especially at a time like this, when there are climate change and the pressure of human activities on the sea is very strong. It is a step forward because it also realizes the extension of the marine area which is protected compared to the original hypothesis. The extension of the commitments resulting from this act is a positive fact and, above all, the further commitment is crucial to the fight against marine and coastal degradation. Ratification is an absolutely useful tool for environmental intervention in a sensitive area such as our sea, the Mediterranean. I would like to remind you, as I have said many times, that the Mediterranean area is considered by scientists to be one of the most sensitive areas and subject to change. We must remember that it is a fairly closed sea and needs, even more than others, particular attention as regards the fight against pollution, marine degradation and the protection of biodiversity. For all these reasons we are very much in favour of this ratification. The problem is that we always arrive very late at the ratifications of these agreements, so we hope to recover, also through the implementation of the instruments of protection, lost time. We therefore reiterate our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u41	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the important Agreement which is called for to be ratified provides for closer cooperation between Italy, France and the Principality of Monaco to protect and prevent coastal marine environments from pollution and degradation and to preserve ecosystems and biodiversity. In line with the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have decided to vote in favour of this measure because we share its spirit and aims, especially as regards this pilot project that we are going to implement in the Mediterranean. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u44	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, as you know, in 2013 UNESCO recognised as a state the enormous pile of plastic and debris of all kinds, known by all as a plastic island, covering an area as large as Spain and Portugal put together, located in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Unfortunately it is not the only plastic island created in the oceans, it is only the largest; there are at least five in the world where millions of tons of debris and plastic have accumulated. Although the currents have not created a plastic island, no one can deny that the Mediterranean is one of the most polluted seas. That is why our commitment cannot be limited to mere declarations of principle, but must be effective and concrete, as in the case of today's Agreement, which represents a step forward in collective awareness of coastal pollution and promotes a new point of view more focused on pollution prevention and greater cooperation between the signatory governments. As you know, the Ramoge Committee has the task of making proposals and keeping governments, local and territorial authorities, the scientific and technical community and public opinion informed, urging them to take action. Not only that. The promotion of studies on pollution and public awareness campaigns promoted in recent years by the Commission has proved effective in resolving specific marine and coastal issues protected by the RAMoge Agreement. I hope that the RAMOGE model, i.e. cooperation between neighbouring states for the protection of the common sea and coasts, can also be exported to other coastal areas that are currently suffering from pollution which is also generated by the lack of cooperation between neighbouring states. We must take note of the irreversible environmental damage created in decades of industrialization and exploitation of the sea and coasts, and promote a different culture in resource management and in the relationship with the environment. With this Agreement we will strive more and more towards a culture of protection of our marine and coastal environment not only from Marseille to La Spezia, from the mouth of the Rhone to the mouth of the Magra river, not only in the entire territory of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region and of Liguria or in the high sea, but throughout the Mediterranean. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this agreement by my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u45	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u46	The next item is the debate on draft law No 928, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u47	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House, ratifying the June 2015 Agreement between Italy and Bosnia and Herzegovina additional to the December 1957 European Extradition Convention. It is recalled first that a bill of ratification of the same agreement had been approved in December 2017 by the Chamber of Deputies (Room Act 4627), but could not see completed its examination process in the Senate for the conclusion of the XVII legislature. The purpose of the agreement is to extend and facilitate the application of the European Convention on Extradition between the two countries, promoting better cooperation in the framework of bilateral relations in this field, establishing the possibility of extradition and transit of its citizens and the execution of the sentence in the country of origin, taking into account the importance of combating organised crime, corruption and other serious crimes, as well as the need for effective cooperation in these areas. The bilateral text certainly constitutes a significant advance in bilateral relations in the field of criminal judicial cooperation, in particular as a result of the explicit forecast of the right of extradition of citizens, which has so far been refused by Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify (Article 1), the order of implementation (Article 2), the financial cover (Article 3) and the entry into force (Article 4). With regard to economic charges, the bill assesses them in little more than 8,700 euros annually from the year 2018 for mission expenses, and in additional 5,000 euros per year mainly attributable to translation costs of the acts. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u48	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u51	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the ratification of an international agreement which follows the many agreements on judicial cooperation in international criminal matters which have been made and which incorporates and implements the 1957 European Extradition Convention. I remember that under the past Government, with Minister Orlando, more agreements of this kind have been made, both with Bosnia and Herzegovina, as in this case, and with Macedonia. Such work with the Balkan countries serves to strengthen the work of countering Islamic terrorism and human trafficking. In particular, this work became necessary in 2015 and early 2016, when the Balkan route was certainly more frequented. At this moment, after the agreements with the European Union and Turkey, in particular, this route has been closed. This work, however, is also necessary in order to reduce overcrowding in prisons. I would remind you that there are more than 200 Bosnians detained in Italian prisons that could usefully be sent to Bosnian prisons, with a warning on the human rights and standards that are guaranteed in Bosnian prisons. This is one of the reasons why the relationship between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina is having a hard time moving forward. This is one of those chapters in which the approach to the European institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina faces difficulties. Having said that, it seems to me that this agreement is part of the classic canons of international judicial cooperation agreements, similar to what has already been done with the United Arab Emirates. For these reasons, I confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u54	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate Act 928 extends and facilitates the application of the Agreement between Italy and Bosnia and Herzegovina in regulating the extradition procedure for persons subject to criminal proceedings or to the execution of the sentence. I think it is very important to vote in favour of ratification and to encourage as many agreements as possible in order to have a fair and correct distribution, in the context of the fight against crime and migration flows. This is an important step forward, because until now Bosnia had refused to apply an old 1957 agreement. In our penitentiaries there are now 217 Bosnian prisoners and only three are Italian prisoners present in Bosnian penitentiaries. We also hope that the agreement will be ratified in order to strengthen the democratic stabilisation of the Bosnia-Herzegovina area, which is very important for both political and judicial relations. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of this bill and all those aimed at ratifying agreements to promote extradition, with obligation to serve the sentence in the country of origin. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u57	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group welcomes this measure, which multiplies international agreements of a bilateral nature and combats crime (especially organised crime), operating in the international criminal sphere. For what happened in the recent past, the contrast is evidently to the traffickers of men, as has been pointed out, but also to Islamic terrorism. The fundamental points are therefore represented by the extradition of our citizens who commit particular crimes and citizens who commit crimes of organised crime abroad, as well as by the execution of the sentence in countries where the citizen has been sentenced by final judgment. These are principles and a spirit that we share. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u58	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u59	The next item is the debate on draft law No 929, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u60	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, ratifying the Additional Bilateral Agreements signed by Italy with the Republic of Macedonia in 2016 respectively to the European Extradition Convention of December 1957 and to the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959. First of all, it is recalled that a bill of ratification of the same Agreements was approved in December 2017 by the Chamber of Deputies (Room Act 4628), but could not see its examination process completed in the Senate for the conclusion of the XVII legislature. The aim of the two bilateral agreements is to extend and facilitate the application of the European Conventions on extradition and judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries respectively. The additional bilateral agreement to the 1957 European Extradition Convention, in particular, can be seen as part of the efforts of both countries to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. Composed of four articles, the text lays down detailed rules on the extradition of citizens and their transit through the territory, on the grounds that a national delivered by a third State to one of the two Contracting States must transit through the territory of the latter. With regard to the Additional Bilateral Agreement to the 1959 European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, it is noted that it is part of the instruments aimed at improving international judicial cooperation and at making the fight against transnational crime more effective in the criminal justice field. The text, consisting of six articles, provides first of all for the parties to give each other mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, with particular reference to the service of judicial documents, the taking of witnesses or statements, the taking and transmission of expert opinions, the activities of documentary acquisition, the sending of documents and evidence, the search for persons, the transfer of prisoners, the execution of investigations, the transmission of criminal judgments and information extracted from judicial archives (Article 1). With regard to the total annual burden resulting from the implementation of the draft law ratifying the two Agreements with Macedonia, as detailed in the technical report, it amounts, as from 2018, to EUR 19,598, of which EUR 9,698 for the charges assessed and EUR 9,900 for the charges authorised. The Agreements do not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u61	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u64	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour of an agreement similar to the previous one, which also extends to judicial assistance with the Republic of North Macedonia. From this point of view, special attention is needed to the issue of human rights on the path of the Republic of North Macedonia towards accession to the European Union: there is an open chapter on the condition of prisons, especially as regards the Albanian minority. Even recently, some judges in Italy have not authorized extraditations against Macedonia, precisely for the treatment of Albanian minorities. This is one of the issues that prevent us from moving forward. Beyond the question of the name, which has been repeatedly put by Greece as an obstacle to continuing the negotiations for Macedonia's accession to the European Union, that of prisons, in particular as regards the treatment of Albanian and Kosovo minorities, is an open issue with Macedonia. Therefore, even within an agreement like this, albeit not written, it must always be kept in mind that extradition agreements with that country must be without prejudice to cases where constitutional rights are not guaranteed in Italy. For the rest, it is one of those standard agreements on which the Democratic Party has already expressed a favourable opinion in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u67	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate Act 929 concerns the bilateral extradition agreement with Macedonia. These are, in fact, two additional agreements with respect to the 1957 and 1959 European Conventions, in order to facilitate bilateral extradition of citizens, including through transit through the territory of Contracting Countries, in the event that the citizen is delivered by a third country. They are a significant step forward in the relationship between Italy and Macedonia on the fight against organised crime, corruption (as the rapporteur also said) and money laundering. The second agreement, in particular, aims to intensify cooperation between the two countries in the international judicial field and to make the fight against transnational crime more effective. Let us remember that Macedonia is going through a very delicate political moment, which sees it structured as the Republic of North Macedonia (as an independent country): it therefore tends to try to structure itself in order to be able to join the European Union. I therefore vote in favour on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u70	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this Agreement is an additional commitment which we consider to be extremely important, because it involves a country, Macedonia, as a partner, which is on the way to the European Union and which, therefore, will have to be adapted to the parameters, including in the areas of criminal law, our legal system and, in particular, the European legal system. It is therefore a commitment to cooperation and assistance in criminal matters. The agreement lays down a discipline which we consider to be timely in the matter of transit and extradition of their citizens, both in order to pursue criminal proceedings, in particular for offences with a minimum edittal penalty of up to four years and, of course, for crimes of organised crime, money laundering and corruption, and to allow the execution of a criminal sentence if it has become final, for a sentence of more than two years. Since we share the spirit, principles and values contained in it, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u71	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u72	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Mr. Stefano Esposito, Senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the penal code (defamation by means of the press), transmitted by the Tribunal of Turin on 18 December 2017 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly has unanimously proposed that the statements made by Mr Stefano Esposito, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Malan, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u73	Mr President, since the end of the last legislature, the Senate has received a copy of the acts relating to criminal proceedings against the then Senator Stefano Esposito from the ordinary tribunal of Turin, in order to ascertain whether or not the conduct in question of criminal proceedings complements the hypothesis of expression of indispensable opinions, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, as they relate to the exercise of the functions performed by a Member of Parliament. This issue could not be hesitated over the last few weeks of the previous parliamentary term, so the debate has resumed in this parliamentary term and the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has examined it in the last few months' sessions. The story starts from an interview given by Stefano Esposito, Senator at the time of the events, at the transmission "La Zanzara" on January 13, 2014. In this interview Senator Esposito, who had just been the subject of an intimidating act of violent character for his activity, asked if he knew who had placed the Molotov bottles in front of his house, replied that he did not know those who had materially done it, but that, as for moral senders, he had no doubt, indicating a series of people, in particular Dr. Livio Pepino, former magistrate at the time of the events, who in his books had always justified the actions, even violent, of certain characters, activists against the construction of the new Turin-Lion railway line. In particular, Dr. Livio Pepino had attacked the Turin prosecutor, Dr. Caselli, in various circumstances. Senator Esposito's statement went to trial by Dr. Pepino. It should be noted that there have been a number of specific positions, also in this House, mentioned in the report, by Senator Stefano Esposito, that this battle and the strong opposition to violent demonstrations against the construction of that railway line did - or at least this was attributed to him - one of the main aspects of his political action, inside and outside the Senate and probably those who know Senator Esposito for one thing, know him for this political action. The Junta therefore considered that there are the prerequisites for the application of Article 68 of the Constitution, since that statement, in the radio broadcast, which also follows the different positions taken by Senator Esposito in the Senate, reflects and is, indeed, simply an extension of the parliamentary mandate of Senator Esposito, being such positions an important part of its action. The Junta therefore considered that its statements are covered by Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u74	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u77	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking to announce that the Brothers of Italy Group voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, because we believe that there is no doubt that it is a matter of inconvenience within the meaning of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u78	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Mr Stefano Esposito, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u79	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Maurizio Gasparri for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the penal code (defamation by the media), transmitted by the Court of Rome on 30 March 2018 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly, by a majority, has proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly. On 30 March 2018, the ordinary court of Rome sent to the Senate a copy of the acts relating to a criminal proceeding against Senator Maurizio Gasparri, in order to ascertain whether the conducts, the subject of the criminal proceedings de quo, supplement or not the hypothesis of expression of irremissable opinions pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution. The Junta examined the matter at its meetings on 5 October and 13 November 2018, acting on that date in the sense of inindacability. I would also point out that Senator Gasparri had presented a memoir on October 12, 2018. The facts originate from a complaint lodged by Roberto Saviano on January 4, 2018 to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome, relating to the content of three tweets - an important fact to keep in mind - posted by Senator Gasparri between 7 and 8 October 2017 and concerning the presence, as a guest in the studio, of Saviano himself in the television show "Che tempo che fa" on Rai1 in the evening of October 8, 2017. From that complaint it was also clear that the content concerned some very short sentences posted in tweets about the presence of the Saviano at the transmission, in which the same was called "prejudiced" because in fact he had been condemned by plagiarism with a judgment passed in court. Dr. Saviano had stated that he was not harmed and that he had never reported criminal convictions, considering such behaviour detrimental to his reputation and good repute, which is why he had proposed the complaint. For a complete and complete examination of the case it is necessary to keep in mind the constant jurisprudence of the Consulta, another important fact. Given that there are several of them, on which I will return later, it is first appropriate to recall the judgments of the Constitutional Court n. 144 of 2015, n. 55 of 2014, n. 305 of 2013 and n. 81 of 2011 where, in a constant manner, the Constitutional Court considers that the statements made extra-moenia by a parliamentarians are covered by the prerogative of inindacability, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, provided that it is always possible to find a functional link with the exercise of the parliamentary mandate, based on the substantive correspondence of content between opinions expressed outside and opinions expressed in the context of parliamentary activities. In other words, the Constitutional Court, also accepting the addresses of the European Court of Human Rights, considers that the indispensability in cases where the MEP's external statement (in the press, on social media or in any other way) has a dissemination purpose of opinions expressed in the course of parliamentary activities is conceivable. The parameter on which the Constitutional Court evaluates the existence or not of the functional link is, therefore, the substantial correspondence of content between the statements expressed outside the parliamentary classrooms and those pronounced inside, with the clarification - another extremely important data for a correct evaluation of the case - that a precise terminological coincidence between the two acts is not necessary, however, being sufficient a substantial content correspondence. In the present case, it is essential to take into account the fact that Senator Gasparri, in the three tweets of October 2017, which later gave rise to the complaint, merely disclosed an opinion expressed in a parliamentary act, namely in question 4-08214 of 10 October 2017. In this question, which was submitted by the same person, it was stated in the premises: By final judgment of 15 June 2015, the Supreme Court of Cassation confirmed the plagiarism of the writer Roberto Saviano...[ omissis ]. In the procedure of the question, the sentence for plagiarism was recalled again. In particular, Senator Gasparri wrote: If the Minister for Economic Development, as far as his competence is concerned, considers that he complies with the obligations imposed on the concessionaire of the public radio and television service, on the basis of the service contract, the fact that a writer convicted of plagiarism is invited...[ omissis ]... So, in essence, Saviano is referred to in the tweets as "prejudiced" with definitive condemnation, with a clear non-moenia reproposing of the substantive contents proposed in the parliamentary act cited, in accordance with the requirements foreshadowed by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. In this sense, following the consistent case-law of the Constitutional Court, it is considered that there is no such thing as inindacability. However, it is also appropriate to draw attention to a number of subjects which have been the subject of wide-ranging discussion during the meetings of the Council. For completeness, in fact, it should be remembered that the Junta does not have to evaluate the offense or not of the expressions used in tweets, which is entirely relevant, but that it could possibly be the subject of the evaluation of judges where it was expressed in the sense of the mayorability. In essence, the Junta should only assess whether, as mentioned above, statements made extra-moenia are functionally related to parliamentary activity. All other judgments, such as the one relating to the correct or not of the qualification of the criminal fact, the concrete configurability of the offence and therefore of the same crime, are exclusively the responsibility of the judicial authority, if it is not recognized the prerogative of inindacability. A further discussion in Giunta concerned the correspondence between the facts reported by Saviano extra moenia or intra moenia. Indeed, some have objected that the formula "prejudiced" would not correspond to truth. Reaffirming that this could be the subject of other kind of discussion before the judge, who only has to assess the offense and the configurability of the crime, it is always necessary to refer to the case law that there must be a substantial and not a literal conformity between the acts extramoenia and those intramoenia. It is sufficient that the content is essentially identical. In this case it is clear that the contents are identical, although there is no perfect correspondence between the terminology used extra moenia and intra moenia. A final remark that is the subject of further discussion in Giunta is the fact that the technical term is not very important because in tweets it is not possible to use a terminology legally or technically perfect and relevant to the fact. What finds out is whether the phrases used by Senator Gasparri both in tweets (i.e. outside) and in the questioning have substantially the same value and there is a content identity. For these reasons, the Junta expressed its views by proposing the declaration of insincability of the opinions expressed by Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u81	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u84	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Fratelli d'Italia Group will vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, Senator Cucca, sharing its content and, in particular, the existence of the functional link between the expressions which were the subject of a complaint by Mr Saviano and what Senator Maurizio Gasparri had previously expressed in an act of union in his role as senator of the last legislature. This is not the place to assess the offense or not of the expression used by Senator Gasparri, although I would like to point out that in this case Senator Gasparri has been sued for having affirmed the truth. That is a fact that must be taken into account. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u85	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u86	The next item is the debate on the document: In the context of criminal proceedings against Mr. Vincenzo D'Anna, Senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in Article 595 third paragraph, of the penal code (defamation by means of the press), transmitted by the Court of Rome on 28 February 2018 in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Mr. Vincenzo D'Anna, Senator at the time of the facts. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has, by a majority vote, proposed to the Assembly that the extra-moenia statements made by Mr Vincenzo D'Anna, Senator at the time of the events, do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore do not fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Augussori, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u87	Mr President, of course I would like to refer to the report and allow me to make a brief summary of the matter which has been put to our attention. On 28 February 2018, the gip of the Rome court sent to the Senate a copy of the documents relating to the criminal proceedings against the then Senator Vincenzo D'Anna, in order to ascertain whether the conducts subject to the proceedings included or not the hypothesis of expression of indispensable opinions, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, as they related to the exercise of the functions performed by a member of the Parliament. The issue, during the 18th legislature, was referred by the President of the Senate to the examination of the Junta on 18 July 2018. The Junta examined the matter at its meetings on 4 and 23 October 2018 and on 20, 27 and 28 November 2018, acting on that date in the sense of mayorship. Mr. Vincenzo D'Anna, senator at the time of the events, sent a written statement on 15 October 2018 and was audited during the session on 23 October. We come to the reconstruction of the facts. On the plaintiff's side, it appears that in this Chamber, on October 2, 2015, the outcome of a dispute addressed by Senator Barbara Lezzi to the President of the Senate, then Senator Vincenzo D'Anna would have expressed disapproval of the senator's words by making a gesture of extreme sexual filthiness. In the view of the plaintiff, Senator Lezzi, the conduct referred to above would be the logical precedent of successive slanderous conducts to his detriment, carried out by the former Senator D'Anna through the release of interviews in various television broadcasts, during which, in order to justify his own gesture, the latter uttered insulting expressions of his good repute. These interviews were then shared on the former Senator D'Anna's personal Facebook profile. With regard to the first fact, it must be made clear that the incident in this House constitutes a breach that can be prosecuted by the presidency of the Senate through the disciplinary powers that it has. In fact, for this conduct, the President of the Senate then in office communicated that the Presidency Council had found that the deplorable vulgar conduct put in place on that occasion had disturbed the order of business, commanding Senator D'Anna the sanction of the ban to participate in the proceedings of the Senate for five days of sitting. As indicated in the shorthand report itself, the President expressly stated that sanctions were imposed under Rule 67 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, clarifying, without a shadow of a doubt, the regulatory relevance and the clear anti-juridism of behaviour. It can also be seen from the reading of the order that the criminal court has not asked for an assessment of the unionability of the conduct held in the Chamber by the then Senator D'Anna, and could not have, since such conduct should have been ascribed to the case of injury, decriminalised crime, and therefore unsuitable to activate the procedure referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution, at least where a criminal court is acting in a case of defamation. It should also be noted that the same judge for preliminary investigations in the order states that the described conduct contested by Senator D'Anna represents, in the plaintiff's view, (...) the logical precedent of subsequent defamatory conduct (...) carried out by the suspect through the issue of interviews. It is clear that the case of defamation must therefore be referred to the interviews and certainly not to the conduct of this House, which is merely a logical precedent. In the present case, therefore, the only conduct for which the criminal court's request exists are those which took place outside of the Union and in particular those carried out during the aforementioned television interviews. The Constitutional Court's settled case law considers that the statements made by a Member of Parliament are covered by the prerogative of unindicability, in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution, provided that there is a functional link with the exercise of the parliamentary mandate, based on the following two requirements: the first consists in a substantial correspondence of content between opinions expressed outside and opinions expressed in the parliamentary classrooms; the second requirement concerns the existence of a temporal link between the parliamentary activity and the symmetrical external activity, in such a way that the latter assumes a sort of dissemination role compared to the first. There is also a third requirement, which is the logical consequence of the first two, i.e. the relevance of the views expressed to parliamentary functions. In fact, there is no functional link where the opinions expressed extramoenia reproduce behaviour held in the classrooms not related to parliamentary functions. The same law n. 140 of 2003 speaks of criticism and political denunciation, connected to the functions of parliamentarians performed also outside the Parliament. In the present case, between the act of extreme filth, mimicked in the Chamber by the former Senator D'Anna during the session of the Assembly on 2 October 2015, and the expressions used against Senator Lezzi in the successive television interviews released and shared on Facebook between 6 and 16 October 2015, there can be no functional connection as there is no requirement for the exercise of parliamentary functions. It should be noted in this regard that the Constitutional Court in judgment n. 59 of 2018 clarifies that "The parliamentary prerogative referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in fact, cannot be extended to include the insults - of which it is however questionable the qualification as opinions - only because they are connected with the "battles" conducted by parliamentary representatives "and therefore the subsequent claims of delegation, referring to Senator Lezzi, cannot be brought back in any way to the exercise of the right of criticism of the Member of Parliament." For these reasons, the Junta proposes to the Assembly to decide that the extra-moenia statements made by Mr Vincenzo D'Anna, senator at the time of the events, do not constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u88	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u91	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that it is not and cannot be the vulgar and regrettable gesture that Senator D'Anna has addressed to Mr Lezzi in this House. It cannot be so, firstly, because the act has been sanctioned by the Presidency in this House and therefore it would be a sort of bis in idem and, secondly, because in the meantime the iniuria has been decriminalized and therefore no longer the subject of the penal code. The rapporteur, however, failed, in my opinion, to report to the House a figure which emerged in the course of the debate in Giunta and which, on the other hand, is extremely important, namely the fact that the contrast between Senator D'Anna and Mrs Lezzi was caused by a different interpretation and by different positions taken with regard to a bill which was particularly close to the heart of Senator Lezzi, on whom Mr D'Anna had opposing views. There is a letter from the President of the Commission for Justice from the last parliamentary term and some colleagues, members of the Commission for Justice in the last parliamentary term and currently members of the Junta, reported in Junta that, several times, Senator D'Anna, not in the Chamber but in the Commission for Justice, has also made serious and unspeakable criticisms, but in the performance of his duties, at the address of Senator Lezzi, basically the same criticisms that were then reported in the acts the subject of the complaint. In the light of this, I believe that, contrary to what the rapporteur and the majority of the Council have objected to, the functional link can still be considered to exist, because in any case it is a conflict and a conflict of a political nature, certainly expressed in a manner that is morally censorable and in a censorable way from the point of view of education that each of us should always respect in the expression of our own opinions, but that is not the point on which we must decide today. As in previous cases, today the House must decide exclusively on a circumstance, i.e. whether or not there is a functional link between Senator D'Anna's parliamentary activity and what he has then expressed outside. Well, for the reasons I have just expressed, I believe that there is evidence of this functional link, and for this reason I and my group will vote against the rapporteur's proposal. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u94	WORDS (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the issue we are dealing with is not just about Senator D'Anna but about a much more important principle: there are votes like this that create precedents. It is clear that Senator D'Anna is almost indefensible because of the statements made in this House, and I must say that the subsequent behaviour has made it almost impossible to defend itself. Instead, this House must defend self-declaration and, in particular, a fact that happens in this House must remain in this House, just as it has happened with the sanctions that have been paid. True, there have been other external statements, but for the external statements that Senator D'Anna has given there is a clear continuity. I believe that extra-moenia in this case is very weak and risks being a staple through which we do not try to sanction both the subsequent statements and, as a consequence, we would call into question what has happened in this House. So much so that external statements, without what has happened in this House, risk being very little. I repeat, let us not be conditioned by the fact that the behaviour of a senator in the last parliamentary term has been censored and today is absolutely negative, even extremely negative. What is at stake today is something else, and I also say this to Groups which have been in this House for less time and which in this short time have not hesitated to have very strong attitudes here: be careful, because in this House it could happen that, where all behavior is then justified outside, through the crayon of extra-moenia, it is claimed that the functional link does not exist, when, as in this case, it is very strong: not strong, but very strong, because we can all deny that Senator D'Anna would never have issued the statements he has issued except to justify what has happened in this House. So, be careful. I repeat that the behaviour of the senator we are talking about risks being, indeed it is indefensible but it is to be defended the principle that what happens in this House must remain in this House. Otherwise, a serious precedent would indeed be created. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group is also opposed to the proposal of the rapporteur for unionism and, therefore, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u95	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the extra-moenia statements made by Mr Vincenzo D'Anna, senator at the time of the events, do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Senator Airola's comments. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Senator Airola, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u96	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Mr. Ciro Falanga, Senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in Article 595 third paragraph, of the penal code (defamation by means of the press), transmitted by the Court of Rome on 26 March 2018 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Junta proposed, by a majority, to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Mr Ciro Falanga, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, with the consequent absorption of the request made by former Senator Falanga in relation to the same criminal proceedings. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator D'Angelo, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u97	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 July 2018, the President of the Senate referred to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, pursuant to Rules 34 and 135 of the Rules of Procedure, the request for deliberation on the question of inconvenience, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution - already transmitted, moreover, during the seventeenth legislature - made by lawyer Ciro Falanga, Senator at the time of the events. We have to distinguish, as far as the facts are concerned, two hypotheses. The first one emerged during the session of the Assembly in March 2017, during the XVII legislature, when the then Senator Ciro Falanga informed the President of the Senate about a case of parliamentary insindability pending against him before the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Rome, originated from a complaint brought by Mr Donatella Ferranti for the offence of defamation under Article 595 of the penal code in relation to some statements made in a video interview and published on "CorriereTV". The President of the Senate - taken note of what Senator Falanga reported in the Chamber that, although he had claimed that parliamentary indisputability under Article 68 of the Constitution, the judicial authority would not accept the exception, then failing to transmit the acts to the Senate - referred the matter to the Assembly for consideration of parliamentary elections and immunities. In the interests of this examination, however, the judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Rome, by a further order of 20 March 2018, had, pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 4 and 5 of Law No 140 of 2013, the transmission to the Junta of the elections and immunity of another criminal proceedings against lawyer Falanga, Senator at the time of the events. The President of the Senate then referred the matter to the Junta and the two proceedings, which were initiated respectively by the person concerned and the other by the judicial authority, concerned in particular the statements made in a first interview by Senator Falanga concerning the building pardon and in another relating to the competences of Mr Ferranti. There, Senator Falanga made a few expressions which were considered defamatory by Mr Donatella Ferranti, President of the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies. In the course of the interview he said that you, as President of the Justice Commission, had the presumption of governing the entire Parliament. It blocks the law that provides for the regulation of the return of the magistrates engaged in politics - and I say this by assuming the responsibility for what I say - because it wants an amendment that provides that those who stop making politics, the magistrates must go to the Supreme Court. The plaintiff's claim annexed by the judicial authority shows that further statements would also be made by the press agencies, reported by "Il Mattino" and other newspapers. In a further statement against Ferranti, the Falanga reported that it ignores the law and does not know the jurisprudence in this matter. He said the Falanga: "I refer to the sentence of April 21, 2016, when she speaks of crawling pardon. And if it is not ignorant, from Latin I ignore, it is in bad faith. These are the statements that have been considered defamant by Mrs Ferranti. We must make two points of law with regard to intra-moenia declarations made in parliamentary fora which are not subject to the publication of the work. In fact, within the framework of the document in question, we must distinguish the two profiles considered by the plaintiff slanderers: the first concerns the bill on judges elected in political positions; the second concerns the law on pardon. As regards the first of these two profiles, it is clear that the same applies, in particular, to the following statements relating to Mr Ferrante: I am blocked by the law that provides for the regulation of the return of the magistrates engaged in politics - and I say this by assuming the responsibility for what I say - because it wants an amendment that provides that those who stop making politics, the magistrates must go to cassation. Mr Ferranti probably has an interest in going to cassazione and he wants to go not already for merit or for evaluation of the CSM, but we want to go by law, other than Berlusconi's ad personam measures.................................................................................................. Mr Falanga claimed during the hearing that he had made a number of speeches during the meetings of the Bureau, supplemented by representatives of the Commission's Justice Groups, aimed at harshly criticising Mr Ferranti's attitude in his capacity as President of the Chamber's Justice Commission, directed - in his view - towards the cover-up of the draft laws then going on the reinstatement in the service of the magistrates after the conduct of elective positions. This critical activity was carried out, as indicated by Mr Falanga, during the period from December 2015 to April 2016. On December 4, 2018, the Giunta decided to grant the former Senator Falanga the possibility to deposit written statements accompanied, if necessary, by appropriate documentation. Mr Falanga then sent the Junta a letter to which he attached a note with which former Senator Nico D'Ascola pointed out that even before his election as President of the Senate Justice Commission on 21 January 2016, some senators had raised questions concerning the slowness with which the bill relating to the relocation of judges after the parliamentary term would be dealt with in the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. The former Senator D'Ascola points out that the speeches on this subject were repeated and thickened after his election during the meetings of the Bureau which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, constituted its natural seat, and culminated in the well-known interview given by Senator Falanga. In particular, in terms of frequency and intensity of tone, he mentioned the interventions of Senator Falanga and other members of the Justice Commission. It should be noted that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, meetings of the Bureau of the Commissions are not subject to any advertising arrangements, since they do not provide for summary reporting, which is compulsory for plenary sessions. Consequently, it is impossible to carry out any documentary verification of the meetings of the Bureau. Other forms of investigation by the Junta are not allowed by the Rules of the Senate and by the practice of applying it, which wants to avoid creating a sort of domestic parallel process in which they feel witnesses and civil parts or to ascertain facts subject to criminal proceedings. Therefore, there is a sort of vulnus at the level of the investigation. In order to overcome the limits resulting from the absence of publicity at the meetings of the Bureau, the Junta, during the XVII legislature, in the course of some examination of statements issued by other senators, agreed to have a written note submitted by the President of the Commission, public works, communications. It should be pointed out, therefore, in relation to the abstract case in question, that the function of guarantee inherent in the presidential role can confer in the parliamentary system a sensu certified value for the written reconstruction of a President in respect of the activities carried out in an informal forum such as that of the Bureau. In other words, the super partes of the Presidents of Commissions in the parliamentary order implicitly root a potestas certificate extra ordinam. On the other hand, any decision not to use this extra-ordinam would have led to an unreasonable and unconstitutional difference in treatment between those who express an intra-moenia opinion in the plenary session of the Commission (who can therefore avail themselves of the summary report in order to assert an unassailability) and those who express an intra-moenia opinion at a meeting of the Bureau (not protected if they disclose such opinions extra-moenia). It is therefore considered that the form of publicity provided for in the Rules of the Senate could not be the element of discrimination to assess the existence or otherwise of an unindicability within the meaning of Article 68 of the Constitution, expected the constitutional value of this prerogative and the consequent choice to protect it as much as possible, regardless of the circumstance that a particular activity can be carried out. As regards the part relating to the draft law on judges elected in political offices, there is an assessment of the content correspondence between the declaration made intra-moenia and that made extra-moenia, which must be evaluated in relation not to a precise and specific correspondence of the words used, but to the substantive meaning of the same. As the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated, at that point we look not at the lexical term, but at the content of the declaration, so we can see the functional link. In all these respects, especially as regards the profile of the statements concerning the complaint, the Junta proposes, by a majority, to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Mr Ciro Falanga, Senator at the time of the facts, constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, with the consequent absorption of the request made by the former senator in relation to the same criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u98	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u101	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, in connection with the affair of former Senator Falanga, I was rapporteur in Junta and I proposed that the same should assess the non-susistence of the prerogative. The Junta voted against my proposal and, therefore, gave the position to Senator D'Angelo, who has just carried out his report. The Junta, that is, by majority, with the exclusion of the undersigned and the Senator Grasso, has asserted that there is, in the case of the former Senator Falanga, the prerogative and, therefore, the cover - so to speak - brought from the article 68, first paragraph, of the acts and the facts also rendered extra moenia from the lawyer Falanga, at the time of the facts Senator Ciro Falanga. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities therefore proposes that the House consider that Mr Falanga's statements are covered by the prerogative and rejected my proposal as rapporteur. On the other hand, I believe that the statements made by former Senator Falanga cannot be considered to be covered by the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. It was noted, during the debate in Giunta, that those statements made by former Senator Falanga in an interview with the "Corriere della Sera" of 18 May 2016 would overlap with those made during some sessions of the Bureau of the 2nd The Commission, of which - as the rapporteur has said - there is no record, not even a summary. It was felt that this lack could be remedied by asking the person concerned to draw up, for a period of time, Senator D'Ascola, President of the 2nd Commission, a document which would enable us to state the coincidence between what had been said at a sitting of the Bureau and what was then declared to the Corriere della Sera, and I repeat now by then. A document was then created, which was accessed inside the Junta at the request of the person concerned, which - according to the report - would provide the possibility to consider an extension of the parliamentary activity the interview given to the...Corriere della Sera. What does the D'Ascola document actually say in the content? It merely states that there had been merely a slowdown in Parliament's work; it does not say anything about the statements which were subsequently the subject of a complaint, i.e. the defamatory part. Then I simply say one thing, without wasting your time: there is no proof, nor the Regulation (Rule 135, fifth paragraph) allows you to acquire documents such as to have demonstrated, in the absence of a pre-constituted document (i.e. a summary or complete report), that there is coincidence and, therefore, functional connection between the declaration made or that would have been made in the Bureau of Presidency and that which was certainly given to the At this point, what must the Junta do, or rather in this case the House, to avoid standing up as an instructor judge (the Junta) and an improper judge (the Chamber)? You need to put the record back on the judge. That is my proposal and I shall therefore vote against the report by the Junta, because the acts, under Rule 135, must be returned to the natural judge at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u102	I would point out that the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Mr Ciro Falanga, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, with the consequent absorption of the request made by the former Senator Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u103	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of a criminal proceeding against Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco for the offence referred to in Article 318 of the Criminal Code (corruption for an act of office), transmitted by the Court of Verona on 28 April 2018 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has, by a majority, proposed to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Durnwalder, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly sum up the fundamental aspects of this issue, referring for the rest to the report which is already available to this House. The request to proceed with the gip of Verona towards Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco comes to our examination. The defendant's facility concerns crimes of association for criminal offences, as well as corruption for ex officio acts. According to the accusation, Senator Bonfrisco wrongly accepted, for herself and for third parties, in the performance of her duties as a senator, money or other utility by Mr Zoccatelli Gaetano, at the time director of the CEV (Consorzio pubblico energia Veneto), as well as legal representative of two private companies, Global Power SpA and E-Global Service SpA. According to the accusatory system, Senator Bonfrisco would have offered continuous political support, presenting in particular amendments for the inclusion of the CEV among the 35 large national contracting stations, where then the two private companies chaired by Zoccatelli, Global Power SpA and E-Global Service SpA, would have been automatically contracting the tenders launched by the CEV. The benefits that Senator Bonfrisco would have obtained for this amending activity would have been the payment of a stay in Costa Smeralda for three persons; the assumption, at the request of the senator, of a person at E-Global Service SpA, that is, one of the companies of Zoccatelli; and the payment of 4,000 euros, always requested by Senator Bonfrisco, for the election campaign in the regional elections of Veneto of a person who, however, would be close to the senator. This issue had already been addressed in the last parliamentary term, when the House had expressed a partial authorisation for the acquisition of telephone interceptions. The Assembly also raised a conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court, with a judgment that is still pending before the Court; however, the gip insists on the request to proceed. The question was examined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which noted that, although the examination of the merits of the prosecution, which is obviously reserved for the judicial authority, is precluded by the Constitutional Court, however, the Constitutional Court imposes a judgment on the plausibility of it, on the basis, in particular, of Judgment No 188 of 2010. On the point, from the telephone interceptions that have been authorized by the Assembly in the last parliamentary term, it turns out that, as regards the most serious action contested in the accusing system, Senator Bonfrisco offered, indeed insisted on the payment of the stay in Costa Smeralda and that it was precisely Zoccatelli who did not want, to refuse this payment. In view of the fact that anti-voluntatem corruption seems impossible, the accusatory system, from this point of view, being nevertheless unitary, in the opinion of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity does not exceed the limit of plausibility. Then there is a second argument: the performance that Senator Bonfrisco would offer would be the amending activity. Already in principle, the amendment is not an individual act, but it is always subject to collegial deliberation, on whose outcome it is difficult to give certainties. The Junta also considered, in a more incisive and more important way, that, among the amendments tabled by Senator Bonfrisco precisely during the period in which the dispute falls from the gip of Verona, two (precisely Amendments 2.68 (text 2) and 5.0.8) were withdrawn during the debate in the Assembly. A further amendment to the Commission has been declared inadmissible, as its content is already permitted under existing legislation. On the other hand, the amendment that actually regulated the whole subject was tabled by Movimento 5 Stars and in this context, Senator Bonfrisco did not table any amendments relating to the content of the proposal put forward by Movimento 5 Stars. So, basically, we have two amendments, which were withdrawn by the senator in any case, an amendment which was declared inadmissible - but it was argued that, in any case, the content of this amendment was already authorised by the legislation in force - while the actual amendment was tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars. For all these reasons the Junta, since the accusation does not exceed the judgment of plausibility or non implausibility, has expressed itself in the sense that in any case the prerogatives for the granting of parliamentary immunity, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution, still exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u105	Since there are no members to speak in debate, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator De Bertoldi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u108	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting to remind you that on 3 January a 28-year-old boy died on the motorway, between Lodi and Casalpusterlengo, while his 27-year-old girlfriend was in very serious condition. Ten more people were injured, including five minors. However, this is not a normal highway accident, but another accident caused by the presence of animals, in this case wild, i.e. wild boar, on the highway. Without prejudice to the responsibility of those who must take care of the fence and the protection of the highway network, the phenomenon of accidents caused by wild animals on the roads of our country is taking really important dimensions. In Lombardy alone, 400 road accidents have occurred lately, of which two mortals and thousands of other accidents have occurred in other regions. The regions have the task of managing and verifying the presence of wild animals on their territory, but they cannot do so freely or as they should. The Lombardy Region - for example - which has been directly involved in this last serious accident, does not have the possibility to provide for the control of wildlife, as prevented by opinions that are provided by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), which essentially prohibit the possibility of doing the interventions as they should be done. In this case, control is prohibited through the hunt because it is considered too invasive, leaving aside - on the part of ISPRA - the fact that, perhaps, when it comes to invasive attitudes, it is necessary to refer to animals that cause deaths and accidents on our roads. We are aware of citizens sitting in a wheelchair today because of an accident. In concluding, it is therefore necessary to completely review the system, i.e. to remove the centralized opinions of an institution such as ISPRA on judgements and initiatives that should be of a local nature. It is necessary to protect a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has modified the system of wildlife control in our country, giving back the possibility to the operators concerned to intervene. From this point of view, the call I make - supported also by the entire agricultural world, as well as by all those citizens who travel on our roads, highways, but above all on the country roads and Apennines - is that we reach as quickly as possible a revision of national law and the overcoming of the ISPRA mentality and its often and willingly embarrassing opinions, as in the case at hand. Moreover, it is sufficient to recall the ISPRA opinion sent to the European Commission on the so-called KCs: we must eliminate positions which ultimately turn out to be a serious damage to public health, which we all have to look after, overcoming certain animalistic or protectionist mentality which, unfortunately, every day passes, reign more and more also within an important institution such as ISPRA. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u111	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus the attention of the whole House on a fact that took place a few days ago. The Christmas festivities have just begun and, once again, this year too, many fathers and mothers have not been able to spend them with their children because of the phenomenon of the international abduction of minors. But, above all, some children could not stay with their mom or dad for such a phenomenon. The numbers are very respectable: the statistical yearbook of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation shows 281 cases last year alone, 102 of which in the European Union alone. Some countries concerned - in particular Slovakia - do not seem to want to adhere to the international conventions on this point. We have, among other things, the case of the Association International child abduction Slovakia, which had to intervene with the ambassador of the Slovak Republic Jan Soth, because very often the orders of the Italian and Slovak courts are disregarded in their application. Six cases have been reported to the undersigned, including that of Andrea Cavalcanti, who has won all the practices - both in Italy and Slovakia - but whose son is still held in Slovakia; the case of Leonardo Rassu who, after years of useless battles, tried to bargain with his ex-wife in order to meet his daughter, but very often goes up to Slovakia, and then has to return without being able to meet her; the case of Emiliano Russo, whose impossibility to meet the offspring caused him such a situation of prostration to lead him to contract a serious disability; the case of Alessandro Matera, whose former Slovak companion died suicidal and, despite this, the Slovak court preferred to entrust the minor son to the Slovak brother-in-law instead of to the father; the case of Andreas Masoner, who sees his son on Skype for years now, and the case of Marco Di Marco who, despite an executive measure of repatriation of the court of Ascoli Piceno, despite favorable measures of the regional courts of Bratislava and the Slovak Supreme Court, sees his son on Skype for four and a half years. We therefore call on the Presidency of the Senate - and it must be a diligent part of the Presidency of the Council, in the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and Justice - to finally ensure that the right demands of the children in question are met. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u114	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the border between the Calabrian provinces of Cosenza and Crotone, in the territory of the small town of Scala Coeli, a stretch of the amena valley of the river Nicà, part covered with olive groves and vineyards and part reserved for the wild pasture of Podolica cows, is today defaced by the plant for special non-dangerous waste of Case Pipino, owned by the Bieco SrL - namen omen - plant of which the Calabria Region wants at all costs to authorize the extension to give you also public waste. I repeat: he wants to do it at all costs, so much so that at the second conference of services, last December 17, the commissioner ad acta has postponed the final decision to next 24 January only to give time to the Bieco to remodel the project accepting the request of the representative of the homogeneous territorial area (ATO) of Cosenza to allocate to the public management of the waste half of the landfill, with ability, once expanded, of more than one million cubic meters. It is convinced - indeed it is already known, of course - that this time the technical structure of evaluation of the Region will grant the positive opinion, denied instead to last June for several reasons, not least the prohibition of transit on the road of access to the plant always emphasized by the neighbouring Province of Crotone, this time not invited. The exclusion also involved the Superintendence of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape (ABAP), which was responsible for assessing the landscape impact of the intervention, which had asked for clarification. On the other hand, it was not necessary to close the door in the face of the Regional Department of Agriculture that, in the presence of organic crops, PDO and PGI, as well as of quality cattle farms, in June had in turn given negative opinion, but after only five months, on 20 November, it reversed its position. They remain contrary to the expansion of the landfill, objectively incompatible with the agricultural and tourist vocation of the territory, in addition to the associations of category and environmentalists - I am thinking above all of Legambiente, to which we must acknowledge that it is very active on the subject - the populations of Scala Coeli, Cariati, Terravecchia, Mandoriccio and Crucoli (territories also run by the Nicà river) whose municipal councils have long been unequivocally expressed for no enlargement. The relationships of force are obviously unbalanced, but the pervicacia and the ease - let me tell you - with which the Calabria Region, once again, ignores not only qualified opinions of other administrations, project deficiencies and many failures and irregularities committed, but also the aspirations of the local communities of those same internal areas that the SNAI, to which Calabria joined only in 2015, last of 20 Regions, would allow it to revitalize if only had the ability and above all the will to plan and spend the huge public resources available for the declared purposes, integrate yet another unbearable overwhelmment. Compliance with the European directive on the circular economy cannot be further avoided. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u115	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-78.ana.u116	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.04 a.m.
