ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.09 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 24 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to welcome Senator Calderoli back on behalf of myself and the House. [[Applause. Congratulations to Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, last 24 January was the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Guido Rossa, worker, trade unionist and militant of the Italian Communist Party. I sincerely appreciated the invitation made by some senators during the last sitting to dedicate the beginning of today's work to the memory of a man of great generosity and courage, a worker who had at heart the conditions of his colleagues, for whom he had always fought with tenacity and determination. He started working at a very young factory when he was 14. He had a family he loved and was brutally torn from the gunshots exploded against him on that cold morning of January 24, 1979. It was a real execution. In one of the most dramatic moments in our country's history, while fear inhibited consciences and terror paralyzed people, Guido Rossa, with the naturalness of those who believe firmly in legality, had denounced a colleague who, in the factory where he worked, flanked and collaborated with the brigadeists. He did his duty as a citizen, as a just man, as a free man. Guido Rossa, in these forty years, has been the symbol of firmness against the hatred of terrorism. He was a good person. He didn't want to be a hero. Yet it was a heroic example of civic sense and respect for justice; an exemplary citizen who this House and the country all have the duty to commemorate so that future generations also know that, even in the most difficult moments of the Republic, there were those who consciously chose to defend the values of our rule of law. As the President of the Republic wisely recalled, we cannot build a future of peace and harmony unless we preserve the memory of the violence and the darkest years of our past. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 989. The rapporteurs, Senators Coltorti and Pirovano, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Coltorti.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018 comes to the Chamber after a lengthy investigation into the Commissions of Constitutional Affairs and Public Works. The changes introduced during the examination in the Commissions have expanded the content of the measure, bringing considerable improvements to the text and above all simplifications for citizens and businesses. Let me first thank the offices of the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a for their always valuable support and patience during the long days of work. Finally, we must give special thanks to the majority and opposition senators, with whom we have carried out a constructive confrontation which has allowed the decree-law to come to this House today. Coming to the contents, the Decree-Law simplifications contains urgent provisions on support and simplifications for businesses and public administration aimed at overcoming situations of serious difficulty in the dynamics of the market relationship and with the public administration, as well as criticalities found in the social reality such as the overcrowding of prison structures, the lack of general medical doctors and school leaders; to give further impetus to the modernisation of public action and the computerization of relations between citizens, businesses and public administrations. In particular, Article 1 (amendment 1.44 (text 2)) establishes, under the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, a special section, with an initial financial envelope of EUR 50 million, based on the existing availability of the Fund, dedicated to market-based guarantee interventions in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises which are in difficulty in returning the instalments of a loan previously contracted with banks or financial intermediaries, classified as...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The special section of the Fund shall intervene to issue a guarantee to the bank or intermediary which has provided the loan for which the undertaking has encountered difficulties in returning the loan. The guarantee ceases with the payment of the credit certified by the public administration and is subject to the subscription - between the bank or the financial intermediary and the small and medium-sized beneficiary - of a return plan of maximum duration of twenty years. The guarantee covers - to the extent indicated by decree of the Minister of Economic Development, however no more than 80% and up to a maximum guaranteed amount of 2.5 million euros - the least between the amount of the financing not reimbursed by the small and medium-sized enterprise plus interest and the amount of the credit certificate. The guarantee interventions are also extended to professionals, also not organized in orders or colleges. The effectiveness of the aid scheme is conditional on prior notification by the European Commission. Article 3 deletes the provision that the Single Labour Book was kept in telematic mode at the Ministry of Labour from January 1, 2019 and that it referred to a decree of the Minister of Labour - never issued - the identification of the technical and organizational modalities for the interoperability, keeping, updating and storage of the data contained in the book. Article 1, paragraphs 8-a and 8-b, redefines the terms of the entry into force of paragraph 51 of Law No 145 of 2018, which provides for the repeal of tax concessions defined for specific categories of subjects (including social assistance agencies, educational institutions and autonomous institutions for housing). The entry into force is subject to the adoption of subsequent legislative measures identifying new favourable measures against those who achieve social objectives. Paragraph 34 provides that the facilitated taxation of the countervailable profits in capital goods and for the recruitment of personnel, referred to in paragraphs 28 to 33, may be combined with other benefits possibly granted, with the exception of those which provide for flat-rate income determination schemes. Article 2 extends the deadline for the repayment of the loan granted to Alitalia on the basis of Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, which should have expired on 15 December 2018. The new deadline is set on the thirtieth day from the date on which it will acquire effective the cession of the business complexes belonging to the company in extraordinary administration and in any case no later than 30 June 2019. Article 3, paragraph 1-a, intervenes on the audience of the recipients of the three-year national fisheries programme. In particular, it includes among the recipients of the three-year national fisheries programme, in respect of initiatives to promote cooperation and association and in favour of employees, also the national associations of fisheries undertakings concluding the sector's reference CCNL. Article 3-a (amendment 3.0.8) makes some changes to the rules on the obligation to apply for a certificate of the ability of entertainment workers to perform on the part of performing companies. In particular, it is prohibited to bring action in the premises of the property if they do not have the certificate of agibility. Article 3-a (amendment 3.0.81 (text 3)) extends the time period (taking it from three to twenty-four months) within which the employer who has failed to pay the social security and welfare contributions is not punishable or subject to administrative penalties. Article 3-a (amendment 3.0.136 (text 2)) introduces a series of facilities for companies operating in the simplified logistics area (ZLS). The EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment), VAS (Strategic Environmental Assessment), AIA (Integrated Environmental Authorisation) and AUA (Single Environmental Authorisation) deadlines are reduced by one third. Authorisations, licences, permits, concessions or clearances shall be adopted with a reduced period of half. Article 3-a (amendment 3.0.500) entrusts AGEA with the task of initiating a new procedure to public evidence for the entrusting, to a single supplier, of the management and evolution of the National Agricultural Information System (SIAN), without prejudice to the effects and the further course of the lots already assigned to the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree in question. Article 3-a (amendment 3.0.700) makes it compulsory to include on the labelling of foodstuffs marketed, processed and not, the indication of the place of origin in accordance with EU legislation, the possible use of ingredients where there is the presence of genetically modified organisms at any stage of the food chain, from the place of initial production to final consumption. In the case of unprocessed foodstuffs, the indication of the place of origin concerns the country of production of the products. For processed food, the indication shall cover the place where the last substantial processing took place and the place of cultivation and rearing of the prevailing agricultural raw material used in the preparation and production of products. Article 4, paragraph 2 (amendment 4.3 (text 3)) intervenes on Article 560 of the Code of Civil Procedure, guaranteeing the debtor and his family members living together the right to inhabit the foreclosed property until the decree of transfer of the property, which concludes the process of expropriation of real estate. Article 4-a (amendment 4.0.1000) provides for the payment of special allowances for the family members of the victims of the disaster at the hotel "Rigopiano" in Farindola, Abruzzo, on 18 January 2017, and for those who have been seriously injured. Article 5 deals with the Code of Public Contracts, amending Article 80 on the grounds for excluding an economic operator from participation in a procurement or concession procedure in order to make its wording more in line with the corresponding provision of the European Procurement Directive. Article 7 extends on a transitional basis - from 1 January 2019 and no later than 31 December 2020 - the competence of the technical staff of the Department of the Ministry of Justice's Penitentiary Administration (DAP), in order to cope with the emergency caused by the progressive overcrowding of prison structures and to allow a faster implementation of the current penitentiary building plan. Article 9-bis (amendment 9.0.41 (text 2)) requires a ministerial decree to define the methodology for determining the staff needs of the National Health Service (NHS) bodies; it entrusts a Joint Committee with the proposal to redefine the legislation on objectives for the management and containment of personnel costs; it defines the cases in which the Region is considered to be fulfilling its obligations to contain personnel costs and imposes on the regions subject to the return plans from health deficits or operational plans obligations on the revision of staff expenditure targets. Article 9-bis, paragraph 1 (amendment 9.0.0500 (text 2)), dictates some provisions in the matter of staff of the National Health Service, modifying some rules of the budget law for 2019. Paragraphs 360 to 366 of Article 1 of the Budget Act for 2019 concern the modalities of the competitive procedures for recruitment of staff in public administrations, the exclusion of the possibility of using the competitive rankings in order to assume suitable and the transitional modification of the terms of validity of the rankings themselves. Paragraph 687 provides that the administrative, professional and technical management of the SSN, shall remain in the roles of the staff of the National Health Service, in view of the failure to implement, within the time limits provided for by the SSN, the delegation relating to reorganisation and, in particular, to the new framework of the public management. Article 10-bis (amendment 10.0.1000) introduces provisions on the rental service with driver and certain requirements and characteristics to be respected in the performance of the service, providing that the request of the NCC service can be carried out at the headquarters, as well as at the operator's yard the service, also through the use of technological tools; it is required that, in addition to the operating seat of the carrier, at least one depot should be located in the territory of the municipality that granted the authorisation. It is also possible for the carrier to have further remittances in the territory of other Municipalities of the same Province or Metropolitan Area in which the territory of the Municipality which granted the authorization falls, subject to communication to the aforementioned Municipalities and unless otherwise agreed reached in a unified Conference by 28 February 2019. There is a derogation for the regions of Sicily and Sardinia alone. With regard to these Regions, the authorization granted in a Municipality of the Region is valid throughout the regional territory, within which must be located operational headquarters and at least one remittance. Article 11-a (amendment 11.0.43 (text 3) lays down provisions for the exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons, providing for the approval of a Plan for the sustainable energy transition of the appropriate areas (PITESAI), aimed at providing a framework for the carrying out of exploration and research and cultivation activities of hydrocarbons on national territory, in the valorization of the environmental, social and economic sustainability of these areas. Article 11-a (amendment 11.0.95 (text 3) refers to the rules on concessions of large hydro-electric derivations. The new paragraph 1 states that, at the expiration of the concessions of large hydroelectric derivations and in the cases of decadence or renunciation, all the works of collection, regulation and derivation, main and ancillary, the adductor channels of the water, the forced ducts and the drainage channels pass, without compensation, into property of the Regions, in state of regular operation. Article 11-a (amendment 11.0.1000) contains a provision for authentic interpretation aimed at remedying the application uncertainties regarding the ineligibility of lawyers who have already carried out two consecutive mandates. The provision also provides for a six-month extension for the renewal of the advice of the forensic district orders expired on 31 December 2018. Article 11-a (amendment 11.0.500 (text 3) and amendment 11.0.500 (text 2) as sub-ended by amendment 11.0.500/25 (text 2)) provides for simplification measures in accounting matters for local authorities regarding the postponement of the deadline from which the associated management of the fundamental functions of small municipalities becomes mandatory; the postponement on 28 February of the deadline concerning certain obligations for local authorities; the extension of the possibility to contract loans, including for failing entities, to finance investment expenses strictly functional to projects and interventions co-financed by the European Union or other public or private administrations or bodies; the removal of additional resources intended for the enhancement of the ancillary treatment of holders of organisational positions following the 2016-2019 national collective labour contract of the sector local functions to the expenditure ceilings provided for by the current legislation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u7	Colleagues, I'm asking you for some attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u8	Mr Coltorti, rapporteur. In addition, it includes measures relating to the establishment of a technical-political table at the Ministry of the Economy, which is responsible for formulating proposals for the restructuring of the debt imposed on local authorities; the use of proceeds from asset disposal to finance the capital shares of loans or bond loans; the discipline of the Fund for disputes related to enforcement judgments relating to disasters or transfers; the five-year breakdown of any deficit resulting from the removal of claims up to EUR 1000; the extension of the deadline for the reimbursement by territorial authorities of liquidity advances for the payment of commercial debts; the increase, for an amount of EUR 110 million for 2019, of the contribution attributed to the municipalities as a refreshment of the loss of revenue resulting from the introduction of TASI, as well as the quantification and coverage of the related financial charges; the contrast of fraudulent VAT phenomena in the context of commercial transactions of certain electronic goods carried out via online trading platforms; the monitoring of works carried out with the contribution of EUR 190 million, ex-Article l, paragraph 845, of the 2019 Budget Law; the installation of video-based systems for which are intended for 2019. Article 11- bis (amendments 11.0.600 and 11.0.600/1 (text2)) concerns amendments to Article 3 of Law No 18 of 2009 on the National Observatory on the condition of persons with disabilities, as well as provisions in favour of orphans in Rigopiano, establishing that experts of proven experience in the field of disability called to integrate the composition of the Observatory must however be equal to five. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u9	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pirovano.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u10	Mr President, President Coltorti has already made a very detailed examination of the content of the decree-law, as well as the additions and corrections that have been made during the work of the Commissions meeting, so I will not go back to the more technical part, but I would like to make a brief report on the conduct of the meetings of the Commissions meeting. As President Coltorti has already said, it has been very challenging weeks but also very profitable for the majority, who have worked with compactness and without stopping for weeks, but also with the commissioners of all oppositions and we are very pleased about this. We have worked in a very peaceful climate, despite differences of views on some very important issues and I must say that we have dealt with so many aspects that we have also been redempted for the fact that perhaps we have worked too much. To hear me say that we have worked too much and that we have done too much can only please me not only personally, but I speak for the entire majority of government. I also think of the Undersecretary Galli, who has been constantly present at the meetings of the Commissions; therefore, I thank him and other Undersecretaries now are not present who have helped us much. We have touched on very important issues; others have agreed to leave them out of the work of the Commissions, because they need further study and because they are too important: I am referring, for example, to the issue of the procurement code. What is right for citizens and professional associations to know is that the issues which have not been discussed and which will not be dealt with by this House today have not been considered to be of little importance or not worthy of note. Indeed, they are probably considered to be so important that they need one or more specific measures. This applies to the procurement code, but not only. At this point I would leave the floor to the House. Of course, President Coltorti and I are available for any reply. It will be possible to enter into the substance of each subject when the individual amendments are dealt with. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u11	The minority rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u12	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u13	Mr President, at the beginning of my speech I too would like to join in thanking the two rapporteurs, the Presidents of the Commission and the Undersecretary for the work that has been done: it was not obvious what has been said about the report that has been carried out during the work of the Commissions. As far as we are concerned, as a Democratic Party we have followed our political culture, so we have put in place our experience, our intelligence, but above all the respect for the different roles that each of us exercises within the Senate of the Republic: those who have the duty to govern and those who have the right-duty to control and make their own proposals. With regard, however, to the merit of the provision, if the decree-law in question intended to overcome critical situations that I detect from the title (the dynamics of the relationships of the market with the public administration, the criticalities found in the social reality such as the overcrowding of the prison structures, the deficiency of the doctors of general medicine, and so on), we are convinced that these objectives, although commendable, have not been achieved, indeed we can say that there is a failure regarding the initial objective. This is because not only are the solutions not taken, but because the decree-law has in fact been overturned with a series of amendments, which have only partially been rejected for inadmissibility or spontaneous retreats after cruel oppositions within the majority that have delayed the conclusion of the work of the Commissions. In the assault that has occurred, some aspects certainly make noise, compared to the propaganda that we have heard in recent months. There are proposals that are exactly the opposite of what has been repeated everywhere in our country. I list some of them, so that Italians can understand well the difference with reality. For example, the decision to buy shares of the European Investment Bank was curious; it is a particular bank, but it is still a bank, and indeed a very hated Europe: this reversal of the trend obviously cannot but please us. It is tantalizing yet another pardon in the area of contributions not paid by companies and self-employed workers, which in fact depresses and is detrimental to those businesses and those honest self-employed workers, who have complied with the laws. Then hits that targeted ad personam amendment, which instructs the extraordinary commissioner for Genoa, the mayor of the city, to choose what we think a certain and well known operator of the logistics (we will then find it in the amendment). Then there is the exhilarating hymn to Equitalia, always opposed, but that you have decided to strengthen, to increase the income to the country's treasury. You should also note the favour you do to the very hated motorway dealers, when you grant a derogation until December this year for the application of the Code of Procurement, or the dangerous derogation from the adaptation of fire-fighting systems in Italian schools: it is still expected three years to adapt. So to finance citizenship income, take away money from our children's safety. It should also be remembered the favor you do to the insurance companies, against the interests of the insured, who will be forced to suffer additional costs when they have to uninstall the black boxes at every change of insurance. It is also hilarious the possibility of the purchase of blue cars of big displacement, greater than is currently allowed, but on this point we will return. A positive note, however, is the approval of the proposal, at the first signature of the Leader of the Democratic Party, Senator Marcucci, with whom a great mistake was finally corrected, such as the increase of IRES to the third sector, which has been called "tax on goodness": a clear result of our political action and our opposition. Sincerely, it has been absurd even to think of such a rule and, therefore, the fact that there has been a rethinking by the majority, which will certainly restore serenity to the entire sector, is a fact that we have appreciated and that is in line with the correct relationship that we have established in the work of the Commission. Therefore, at the end of the Commission's work a deformed product has emerged with respect to the initial will, indeed, as other colleagues have pointed out - in particular my colleague Schifani - a serious assessment is made of the subsequent disruption of a decree-law with respect to the initial will. This is a fact that, in similar cases, in the past, has already been stigmatized by the Constitutional Court. We hope that there will also be an evaluation of the Presidency in this part-session, because the reference to the rules for all is good, but then, when proposals are made that have nothing to do with the original text, like many of the amendments tabled, there is a problem of respect for the prerogatives, not only of the Presidency, but also of what the Constitutional Court has established. On the subject, Article 1, as you know, establishes, under an existing Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, a special section, with a budget of EUR 50 million, based on this availability, dedicated to guarantee measures for small and medium-sized enterprises: the principle is not wrong in our view. It is not wrong, in fact, to face the difficulties that really exist in the country, but we do not understand some of the consequent choices to respect this idea. I would like to make these demands clear, and I would like to ask a few questions, which have been the subject of our amendments: why is it that for those who are in difficulty returning the instalments of a loan, which they have contracted with a banking institution or with a financial company, and who are also holders of credit certificates against public administrations, the intervention of the special section has been decided to issue a guarantee to the bank? Why this difficult mechanism in favour, of course, of those in difficulty? Why further bureaucracy, the twenty-year return plan and the relative costs, and instead not allow people and small and medium-sized enterprises in difficulty to pay the instalments of the financing, which has, moreover, caused the likely suffering, with the same credit matured with the public administration? Wouldn't that have been more linear? In this way we would also have exceeded what we consider the absurd contradiction of the economic relief that the Government wants to guarantee, i.e. only up to 80% of the less between the amount of financing not reimbursed by small and medium-sized enterprises and the amount of credit certified. We have put forward a proposal on this particular passage but, as you know, you did not accept it and rejected it. Access to the new section of the Guarantee Fund has been restricted to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a restriction that we consider unjustified because it excludes micro-enterprises that today can freely access the guarantee fund from the benefit provided. Fortunately, thanks to one of the amendments we have tabled, the majority have included professionals as beneficiaries, so a corrective has been made, although not exhaustive with respect to the audience of people and businesses in difficulty. And why can't construction companies have access to the Guarantee Fund section? For what reason, on equal terms, which is credit to the public administration, have different treatments been decided? We proposed that they should be included in the beneficiaries, but this did not go through. You have done the same with the qualification of the fund: as is well known, the allocation in the special section of EUR 50 million covers virtually nothing. Credits for businesses and debts for public administration are quite different, so the risk is that not all those who are in difficulty and who have claims for public administration will be able to adhere to the favourable forecasts of the special section of the guarantee fund. For this reason, we had tabled an amendment to increase that fund, but this amendment was rejected. We have put the issue of the local authorities' failure: we believed and still believe today that those who have debts to the failing local authorities, which are difficult to meet, must have priority in accessing the special section of the Guarantee Fund, but our proposal has not been accepted and has been rejected, as well as our proposal to reduce or exempt social cooperatives from the Irap. This is the package of amendments to Article 1 which we have tabled and which has not been accepted. There are two other issues, such as those of companies which are in difficulties but do not have claims against the public administration and are completely excluded from any kind of benefit, as well as that of all undertakings which have subcontracting to undertakings, which are in economic difficulties and have claims to the public administration. These companies are the first to jump, and unfortunately, despite our amendment in this direction, they have not been included among the beneficiaries of the special section of the guarantee fund. As for Alitalia, referred to in Article 2, the loan that we had decided with the Government Gentiloni Silveri, before 600 million euros and then 300 million, has certainly served to calm down and allow business continuity. Now, however, it is up to us to follow up on all the actions we had then imagined, at the time when that loan was granted, to say that the choices we have to make on Alitalia must be done quickly and in the short term, otherwise we will have the risk, soon, to derogate from the repayment of the credit. So that is enough with the extensions: we need to speed up the definition of a path that gives a certain future to our flag company, but on this we will measure ourselves in the coming months. With Article 3, which goes beyond - unfortunately deleting it - the telematic mode of the Single Labour Book at the Ministry of Labour has been carried out, in our view, an obscenity. To believe that this digital estate is not useful to the institutional activities of the Ministry of Labour and the National Labour Inspectorate, as it is written in the report accompanying the provision, is to renounce the tasks that the two bodies, Ministry and Inspectorate, must carry out. I must remind the House that the Single Labour Book had replaced the freshman book and the payroll, which every private employer had to keep: renouncing it means going back many years and allowing toast to those who instead of those books did everything, especially because they engage workers in black. In the field of agriculture, it seems strange that the Government has only dedicated itself to repealing the single book and not even to foresee some corrections that would in any case have to be made in this delicate economic segment. I would like to remind you here of the request to extend the recognition of the tax benefits payable to farmers who are also direct to settlers, as well as to members of their families who are subject to the obligation of insurance for invalidity and old age. I would also like to remind you here of the proposal to extend the entry into force of the revision of agricultural machinery, pending knowledge of the type of checks to be carried out in the course of the review, and the definition of certain time limits, within which the financial administration must give its opinion on the requests for protection. We have also tabled other proposals, which have not been evaluated by the Commission because they were formulated at a later stage for this House, such as the suspension of the famous eco-tax on cars, as long as a technical-political table, with the participation of several parties, which we will then see, does not set out guidelines for the purchase of new electric vehicles. With regard to Article 4, we believe that this is an important result, namely the withdrawal of the proposed amendments to the penal code that had been tabled. In our view, it was wrong - indeed a shame - to put some proposals in a decree that had nothing to do with the penal code, one of which would have downgraded the serious road injuries to the case, rather than as happens now. This is absurd, which has led us to think of a targeted intervention in relation to some difficult situation in our country. We believe that the gravity of everything concerning road accidents is unacceptable and, fortunately, this aspect has also been withdrawn because of our firm opposition. Article 5 deals with the code of public contracts currently in force and amends certain aspects of it. With regard to the initial intention to amend the procurement code by deregulating the sector, there was an intelligent decision by the majority in the debate that took place within the Commission. We appreciated the desire to ensure that the whole discussion of the procurement code is devoted to a specific procedure, such as the one announced, namely the delegation law. Having therefore appreciated the will in this direction, we will not fail to make our contribution. In this regard, however, you could spare yourself some considerations against the anti-corruption authority and, in particular, against President Cantone. The words we have heard in the Commission are of concern to us. This is a debate that we consider provincial, because, while the international bodies, those recognized, admit the commitment of Italy, and of DAC in particular, against corruption, giving us always better positions in the ranking of the countries less corrupted in the world, here we question whether the difficulty of blocking public contracts is caused by the commitment of President Cantone and DAC and, even, by the code of contracts. We fear that the reasons are others, if that is your intention. We would not like to see different appetites hidden behind the legitimate considerations and possible corrections of the Procurement Code, as a return to the past, as some of your proposals approved in the Budget Act unfortunately confirm. There are also some aspects that we consider to be fundamental, on which we have proposed to intervene, but our proposal has not been accepted. We had asked for the repeal of the structure for the design of public goods and buildings, a monster to which still today, after a month, no nomen, allocation, organization and functions have been attributed. We withdraw a useless neo-centralist bureaucratic harp, which, in your opinion, should promote the development and efficiency of the design. We don't think we need an elephant like that. It would have been enough to leave Casa Italia, the mission structure that you have ideologically deleted and that achieved the same goals that you set yourself, but with a different method, which is what you need. The problem is not to carry out the design, but to overcome all the difficulties. There is therefore a need for coordination between bodies, a moral suasion, a political function and conflict resolution. You don't need a design in that direction. We then asked to cancel the decision to raise the limit, in order to carry out a public tender, from EUR 40,000 to EUR 150,000, because we think that such a decision should be part of the more complex reflection that we want to make with regard to the procurement code. Doing so in a disconnected context such as that of the budget law or like this one, as it is happening, and without counterbalances can risk favoring appetites that the procurement code instead wanted to prevent. Article 6 of the measure tragically provides for the abolition of the Waste Traceability Control System (SISTRI). A waste traceability system has been removed which, although with a thousand problems because it brought out so many problems, cannot be replaced, not even temporarily, with what the SISTRI itself had overcome. It is a real blow of sponge, which we think brings us back over the years, to an era that has marked and devastated entire territories of our country, in particular in the Mezzogiorno, where tons of harmful wastes of industrial origin have been uncontrolled. We are well aware of the difficulties of the business world with regard to the complexity of this mechanism. However, the difficulties are not overcome by canceling the mechanism and going back, because this is the way to do worse. It was in fact that system of control, previously in force, that caused the absence of controls and, as we have seen, the possibility for the evil to act undisturbedly. We are told that now the aim is to introduce a new traceability system and we hope that the government will act quickly, in new ways. But if the time is long, what's the point of erasing the SISTRI? Wouldn't it have been better to keep him up, even if he had difficulty? Otherwise, it is clear what the objectives of the cancellation of this very important instrument have been. Article 8 of the measure tells us of a fundamental error, namely the transfer of the management of the technology platform for public administration payments and the related tasks, currently carried out by the Agency for Digital Italy, to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, through the establishment of a company. We consider this to be a conceptual error, as if the problem in this area was management and not the need for resources. Instead of making this kind of structure - yet another structure - within the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, would it not have been better to invest money to solve all the problems? Again with reference to Article 8 of the measure, we have presented a package of proposals to ensure that Italy is increasingly digitised and that it is increasingly digitalised. I am referring to a package of proposals relating to so-called road haulage installations, procedural simplifications, the award of the qualification of extraordinary work for broadband, the silent consent in the case of interventions of this nature, the speeding up of authorisation procedures and the reduction of time limits for authorisations. It is our way of seeing the modernization and development of the country, with respect to which, as you know, as a center-left government we have invested huge resources, billions of euros. Now is the time to resolve the problems that prevent the development, implementation and effectiveness of these measures that we had taken in the past. Another important aspect for us is the digitisation of the country, which we believe is part of the high national interest. For us it is difficult to understand how some realities of the territory can prevent the overall development of Italy. So let us consider digitalization as a national interest so that it can quickly develop on the country. On the other hand, we do not agree with the destructure of the Cinema and Audiovisual Board. As you know, this Council is made up of experts who have different and authoritative competences and, without any burden on public finance, has always been an instrument for the strategic construction of policies of transparency in safeguarding the collective good. In our view, to weaken it means to reduce real support for our country's cultural policies. With reference to Article 9, with the approval of our proposal, we have ensured continuity in the provision of essential levels of assistance within the emergency-emergency system, because we have allowed access to competitive procedures for the discipline of medicine and emergency and acceptance surgery to medical personnel. We have guaranteed this possibility. It is good news, both for the medical class, as well as for patients and for all those who see recognition of the excellent and demanding work they do in the emergency room. The issue of territorial emergency medicine remains unresolved: the fact, although acceptable, of having decided the transitional possibility of assigning general medical assignments to doctors enrolled in the relevant training course does not solve all the problems. We also need more and, while appreciating these kinds of proposals, we expect the Government to continue in its action, in the confrontation that we have begun to improve this aspect more and more. As far as Article 10 is concerned, however, we cannot understand - and this is one of the aspects that have deformed the measure - what the recruitment of school managers has to do with the modification of the legislation on driver rental: it is incomprehensible. On this there is a debate in the country (we have seen so many protests outside the Senate Chamber) and many dysfunctions have been caused. We have made proposals to resolve some of the problems that have been put to us: they have not been accepted, but the lists have been accepted anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Arienzo, please come to the conclusion because you have crossed the lines abundantly: you had 10 minutes available, but you spoke for 27 minutes. D'ARIENZO, minority rapporteur. Forgive me, ma'am. I knew I was 45. I'm wrong, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, I would ask you to conclude. D'ARIENZO, minority rapporteur. I'll be quick, ma'am. Excuse me again, but there was a misunderstanding: I had made the request and I knew I had 45 minutes available. Let me turn quickly to Article 11, which is how I come to the conclusion. With reference to this article, what makes species is the derogation in the purchase of blue cars (on which we will then return, so I go fast). Today you can buy up to 1600 engine capacity: with your proposal we will also get to cars with 3000 engine capacity (SUV, then Mercedes, Jaguar or BMW) and this is especially true of the propaganda that has been made. Then there is an amendment, which has been tabled in the Chamber, on the slide of the ranking for the recruitment of public security agents of the State Police, an amendment that changes the rules of a competition made in 2017: this is also to be evaluated. Mr President, I take this opportunity of your attention to ask for further consideration of the fact that measures which have nothing to do with the original inspiration of the decree have been included in the decree-law, and this, as is well known, has already been stigmatized, in the past, by the Constitutional Court. I refer to the amendment which introduced the whole drill procedure: we do not understand what the point is, within a decree-law that spoke of anything else, but on the drills we will return. In short, I conclude by saying that with our amendments we have basically tabled an alternative proposal to the decree-law which, in our view, simplified and deburocratic, should have been the meaning of the measure. Instead, this decree-law not only does not achieve this goal but, after it has been enlarged to a great extent, it has become essentially an elephant that will do not a few damage in the delicate crystals of our country. Thank you for your attention and I apologize again for having misunderstood. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Silvio Canevari" in Viterbo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u15	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Malan to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u16	Mr President, we have tabled a preliminary question to draw attention to a way of lawmaking which we do not think is appropriate and which we do not believe guarantees transparency, which is the main purpose of parliamentary scrutiny of the measures. The measure before us has seen a remarkable work for which we thank all the protagonists, present in the Commissions, both of the opposition and of the majority, the rapporteurs and the Presidents. The problem, however, started from the beginning, with an uneven measure. We know that homogeneity is not a stylistic issue and that the Constitutional Court has pointed this out several times, even to the point of declaring it unconstitutional and therefore causing important measures to lapse, because they are uneven. In this measure (I speak of the original one, which came into force immediately), we talk about public debt, repayment of public funding, repeal of the single book of works, public procurement, traceability of waste, prison buildings, digital platforms, training of doctors, competitions and training of teachers, and this only to touch on the main points. To find a form of homogeneity, and also to give a title to the provision, he made himself a bit like in that TV game, very nice, where there is a series of words that seem to have nothing to do with each other and the competitor must find one that instead, for some strange reasoning, can connect all the others. Well, this isn't a game, though. Here we are making legislation and we are particularly concerned that the measure at our examination comes from a budget law, approved in the manner we know and which caused the remarks of the President of the Republic and of the Constitutional Court, which called for a measure to be issued to correct its shortcomings, errors and the lack of adequate reflection that occurred during its examination and then led to further amendments. We believe that this is not the way to act. The same measures may be presented in different ways. It is not indispensable, for most of these, the decree-law, because we have norms of every kind, even of an orderly nature. We do not therefore believe that this is the way to legislate for respect for the institution and for respect for Italians, who have the right to have clear laws, where the title corresponds to a content and we do not resort to completely abstract and questionable concepts, such as "simplification" where we know that simplification laws tend to complicate things when we then have volumes of amendments, such as the one we have in hand, of 820 pages, many of which have been approved in the Commission. This is not the way to render a service to our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u17	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u20	SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Mr President, on the basis of the comments made by Mr Malan, I would like to introduce an element of debate, which we shall naturally vote in favour of this question. On 22 December we saw a constitutional and parliamentary rift when, during the examination of the draft budget law, his authoritative appeal to the Government on the danger of a total debauchery of Parliament's time to examine that measure remained unheard. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that, in order to avoid the provisional exercise, all in all, the tear was justifiable for urgent needs, but it could not have been repeated. Today I fear - and I hope not - that we are on the eve of a further tear, but the Senate, fortunately, President, has the antidotes to avoid this kind of tear. I am referring to a battle, which I have made with the support of my colleagues in the Commission, with respect to an issue on which we have never obstructed the substance, to mean to this House as a decree-law of 12 articles in a few pages risks turning into something different, made, Mr President, by 61 pages more and 83 amending proposals. In this debate you will find the famous theme, which you will surely know - both for your authoritative history as a parliamentarians, and for your institutional experience in this Assembly, the Government and also the CSM - of the configurability or not of the change of the decree-law during the period of its conversion. In 2012 the Constitutional Court clearly outlined the meaning and identity of the law of conversion of a decree-law, stating that a decree-law needs - as Article 77 of the Constitution says - a law of conversion, so that Parliament transforms it into law, under penalty of decadence, and also, clearly, arguing that that path, being obliged, on the one hand, but peculiar, on the other, enjoying a temporal acceleration as it must be examined and approved within sixty days, needs compatibility with the initial text of the decree-law. He said, that is, the Court that the decree-law can be modified, but in the logic of compatibility and consistency either with the articles contained in the decree-law or with the purposes that the same intends to carry forward when it comes to decree-law omnibus as the current one, because it is so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Court states that "Parliament is called to convert (...) into law an act, unitedly considered, containing provisions judged urgent by the Government (...) Ultimately, the object of the decree-law tends to coincide with that of the law of conversion. It cannot be excluded, however, that the Chambers may, in the exercise of their ordinary legislative power, make amendments to the text of the decree-law, which are intended to amend the rules contained in it, following parliamentary assessments... "The text can also be amended for purely technical or formal requirements" - says the Constitutional Court - "What exorbitates instead from the typical sequence profiled by article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, is the alteration of the basic homogeneity of urgent legislation." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate, in the 17th legislature, has even drawn up a dossier, which can be drawn from our tablets ( dossier 111), which has devoted further attention to this decision of the Constitutional Court. The ruling, among other things, mentions precedents: a letter from the then President of the Senate of 2011, sent to the Presidents of the Commission, by which he invited them to respect Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure, which provides for the inadmissibility of amendments when they are outside the subject that is being discussed. This rigour - says the Court - had been reaffirmed and never denied by a resolution of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of November 1984 (Cossiga Presidency). For the Court, therefore, the Senate has in itself the mechanisms, the antidotes, the possibility of internal decisions to prevent an invasion by the Executive and the majority against parliamentary rules and minorities. It is therefore feared that the majority and the Executive may substantially invade the prerogatives of autonomy of the Senate or the House, using an ordinary path of conversion into an autonomous path to impose rules not discussed in the relevant Commissions and not discussed according to parliamentary rules. Mr President, we have repeatedly denounced in the Commission the anomaly that was being consumed. I would like to mention a few striking examples: when it comes to lending to Alitalia, rules are introduced which modify the drawing-up of the balance sheets of banks and financial companies. In Article 5, we talk about simplifying the rules on public contracts under threshold, plus additional articles on territorial pacts, simplification in the field of construction, and civil liability in the field of insurance. Article 7 deals with penitentiary housing? On the other hand, amendments are introduced which affect interventions in seismic zones, of course interesting, important and urgent, but to be adopted by another measure. Is Article 8 about digital platforms? No, there is also talk of simplification in the area of cinema and audiovisual systems. Article 9 deals with specific training in general medicine, and amendments are added that speak of the scientific character of IRCCS, pharmacies, early treatment arrangements, LEAs. Mr President, I look at the title of the decree-law, namely what is the purpose, trying to find a compatibility between the amendments approved in the Commission, although clearly inadmissible, and the function of the decree, because the Court when the measure is omnibus, as it is, also raises the problem of the possible compatibility of the amendments with the ultimate aim of the decree. But the title of the decree-law speaks of support and simplification for businesses and public administration. Therefore, if these changes were to take place in the wake of the achievement of these objectives, I think they would be acceptable. Instead, there is talk of DAT, of LEA, a rule that authentically interprets a law that deals with renewal of forensic orders. There is talk of an amendment adding a management unit to the Ministry of the Interior to combat immigration. It even introduces a rule, which we can define as a spoil system, which forced myself, at the end of the work of the Joint Commissions to leave that seat in protest. An amendment was declared admissible and voted on the board of ENAC (the Flight Safety Authority) which, bringing the number of members from four to two, has basically zeroed that board. But in this decree-law, Mr President, there is no sign of a reform of ENAC; there is no sign of a reform of the flight system. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] ; there is no trace of reform of the structures aimed at safeguarding the traceability of our flights. This amendment has been introduced to implement a spoil system, to remove advisers, probably appointed by previous majorities and governments [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] and appoint new ones. At that point, I, despite him, was forced to leave the work indicating in the minutes what was the motivation that forced him to make a gesture that is not usual to him. Who knows me knows, but I couldn't help but denounce, with that gesture, what was being accomplished, that is, the breaking of a system of rules. Mr President, we have - you are well aware of this for your history in the Senate - our antibodies and our antidotes. And I would like to make an appeal not only to you, who will certainly exercise your role and we will return to your decisions, because they are indispensable, whether they are admissible or not, to the amendments adopted in the Commission, but I would also like to address my colleagues in the majority, who have pervicaciously insisted, so much so as to force myself to ask the Leader to change the Commission, to declare admissible amending proposals which were actually against all forms of dignity of the Senate and our history. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] Mr President, I hope that the same majority will take note of the need to revise certain attitudes and withdraw certain amendments in order to safeguard the dignity of this Senate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u23	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, it would be easy to remind the five-star senators and the League of their blunders in the last legislature against the use of decree-laws by the Government. It would be easy, but frankly, it's not worth it. Only known as five stars and League have succeeded in the difficult task of transforming their demagogy of opposition into a much more dangerous governmental demagogy. Now the point is another. Taking account of the substance of the amendments which have not been noted at this stage, because the point here today is that during the examination in the Commission of the measure to convert a decree-law, so many provisions have been adopted that are outside its content and make it abundantly unconstitutional. In February 2012, the Parliament was formally advised by the Constitutional Court that rules outside the subject matter and the purposes of the decree-law cannot be included in the conversion laws, because there is a very close link between the content of the decree and the law that provides for its conversion. The Chambers can - as Senator Schifani reminded us just now - certainly amend the texts of the decrees, but without altering their basic homogeneity, as it is to that text (and not to anything else) that the Government has attributed the characteristics of necessity and urgency. If the link of homogeneity between the decree and the law of conversion is broken, a violation of Article 77 of the Constitution is achieved for the Constitutional Court, on account - and I quote - of an improper use by Parliament of a power which the Constitution assigns to it. The Court's considerations are unambiguous, which definitely mark its case-law on this point. We have been reminded by the President of the Republic, the Parliamentary Council and, repeatedly, the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament, with the greatest clarity and firm tone. The text approved in the Commission shows that the majority and the government have nothing to do with the judgments of the Court, nor with the appeals of the President and the high institutional positions. In political terms, I do not know whether the violation of the Constitution or the arrogance with which it is committed is more serious: an arrogance so brazen that it makes us think of the desire to repeat similar violations in the future. This morning a newspaper reports that from the ten initial articles the text of the measure has reached 61 pages of amendments. I have here with me a bundle of amendments which are visibly unconstitutional because of their extraneousness to the content of the decree-law; nevertheless, in the Commission they were declared admissible and then approved by the majority. If these amendments are also adopted in the Assembly, relevant parts of the conversion law will be unconstitutional. What is the simplification decree doing with an amendment that raises blatantly the terms of the sanatoria which avoids the employer sanctions for failure to pay contributions? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What is an amendment to the balance sheets of banks and financial corporations doing? Or the amendment on an additional post on the staff of the Ministry of the Interior? I could go on for a long time, Mr President: there are dozens of amendments that are unrelated to the content of the decree-law. The Senate is well aware that the rules for the formation of laws constitute a constituent element of the states of law. Laws adopted without strict respect for constitutional procedures are a characteristic of regimes, not democracies. Among the most important changes to the Senate Rules adopted in the past legislature, there is the forecast of longer times for the work of the Commissions. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the Commissions have as much space as possible for a thorough examination of the measures so that they can come to this House in a well-defined form. More time to the Commissions to improve the measures, not to give the possibility to the Government and majority to fill the laws of conversion with amendments on matters totally unrelated to the content of the decree-law. That is what happened, Madam President. Commissions 1a and 8a used much of the time they had left after the arm wrestling on the drills to approve unconstitutional amendments. We do not live in lucky times for Parliament. Casaleggio and Grillo predict that soon it will be useless. The government thinks of replacing parliamentary democracy with a democracy they call direct and that democratic has nothing. Government and majority believe that it is permissible to change the international and European position of Italy without Parliament having discussed it in depth. And now the majority challenge the Constitutional Court by approving a clearly unconstitutional conversion law. In front of this drift I wondered who, here in the Senate, has the power to stop you. The Presidents of Commissions 1a and 8a would have had them, to which it is their duty to accept the amendments. But the two Presidents have given up their prerogatives. On this point too, there would be much to think about, given that in this parliamentary term the presidencies of the Commissions are increasingly taking on the profile of the bodies of the majority parties, so as to lose, at the same time, the super-partisan character of their role. Madam President, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate entrust you with great responsibility for the quality of our work and, consequently, for the constitutionality of the laws. The question we are debating will be rejected in the indifference of the majority. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to defend the honour of the Senate and to exercise all your prerogatives, with the rigour that is not only necessary, but even mandatory, when it is clear that the blatant inconstitutionality of large parts of the provision that the Senate is preparing to approve is due to the conspicuous distance between the text of the decree-law and that of the bill of conversion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the debate on this question should become - as I would have hoped had happened in the past and I hope in the future - an opportunity for the House to begin to re-establish certain principles and rules. We could say, as was said in the past (return to the Statute): return to the Constitution. Unfortunately, as you know perfectly well, Mr President, all these years we have witnessed a process which in some ways seemed inexorable, so we have not only witnessed an abuse of the urgent decree, but the real point for which we have often been forced to present constitutional prejudices is that all the prerequisites laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution for the decree-laws in most cases had not been respected at all. In this case, I am not just talking about necessity and urgency, even though, to be honest, about the decree-law in question, analytically reading the text approved by the Government, in fact none of the issues addressed by Article 1 to Article 11 was really urgent and necessary. The other point that, alas, over the years has been ignored with a certain frequency is the other element that Article 77 implicitly prescribes, as stated in the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 22 of 2012, namely homogeneity. Everything can be said about this decree-law, although in recent years Article 77 of the Constitution has been repeatedly violated in many extensions and numerous decree-laws. However, with respect to the criterion of homogeneity, in the measure under consideration, of which we can read the various arguments (guarantee fund, extension for the repayment of the financing), the word simplification appears in the title, but in reality it has few traces in the decree-law, therefore also the name itself has little response in the provision: there are only two articles that cite simplification, even if then the norm is not exactly simplification. The measure was born in this way, therefore with the violation of Article 77 of the Constitution, because I wish to reiterate that the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 22 of 2012 considers the decree-law tout illegitimate, if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity, which the Court implicitly considers provided for by Article 77 and explained by Article 15 (3) of Law n. 400 of 1988. This last provision, where it prescribes that the content of the decree-law must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title, although not having in itself and in itself constitutional rank, in fact constitutes explicitation of the ratio implied in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution. Moreover, judgment No 22 of 2012, which on this is pronounced in a clear way, in fact defines illegitimate tout court a decree-law that does not correspond to the requirements of homogeneity and to the correspondence between the content of the decree-law and the title itself. Mr President, in the Commission, we have repeatedly called the majority on these points and only in one case were we right, in the sense that we have been heard and the majority have withdrawn some of the amendments which were among the most blatantly uneven. Let us think of the amendments on donations or of certain rules amending the criminal procedure, which are included in one part of the civil procedure and others. I repeat, however, that it was a small part, while everything else continued to follow a path, which absolutely must be changed. In fact, there has been no innovation, but unfortunately there has been a road that, alas, has been followed for a long time, often with impunity. A number of other amendments have therefore been added to the Decree-Law in the course of the Commission's examination, which continue the history of unevenness. Mr President, however, I want to make it clear that the point is how the decree-law is born. This is not just about the amendments added to the Commission by the majority and the rapporteurs. Dishomogeneousness has in fact continued perversely almost always with amendments tabled by the rapporteurs themselves, but the question of total illegality, from the point of view of the requirement of homogeneity, is at the origin. Mr President, you certainly have the opportunity to speak, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure. As a monocratic body, it has every chance of trying to get the situation back on track, but - I repeat - we carefully avoid thinking that the problem has only arisen as a result of the adoption of the amendments in the Commission. I began my speech by saying that serious work should be done to return to the Constitution in order to respect the procedure, parliamentary work and Article 77 of the Constitution, with a sort of self-censorship of the Executive that cannot continually extinguish decree-laws, which very often end with a vote of confidence, expropriating in fact the Parliament of its prerogatives. From this point of view, therefore, we have the possibility, in some way, to bring back the decree itself on a just channel, but, in announcing that we will vote in favour of the question referred to by Senator Malan, of the Forza Italia Group, we cannot forget that the point is that the decree-law violates Article 77 of the Constitution and the requirement of homogeneity in its very origin and in the text as published in the Official Journal and assigned to this branch of Parliament. In conclusion, the hope is that the discussion of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the legitimacy of the decree-laws and the respect of the articles of the Constitution will not be a tired rite. I really hope that a different moment of reflection can begin, also on the degeneration of recent years regarding the use of decrees, the lack of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency and the lack of the premises of homogeneity, which the Constitution implicitly prescribes, also in Article 77, and on which the Constitutional Court has recalled us, not only in judgment No 22 of 2012, but many other times. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u29	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the great simplification bazaar! We are examining in this House a decree-law which is initially called omnibus. It already had all its initial characteristics and became worse. It has become a mega-maxi-omnibus and for this we say: welcome to the great bazaar! We really do not want to see this kind of monster in this House, in which everything has been stuck. I would also like to remind you that last week this House was convened and could not, in fact, work in a useful way, apart from the work in the Commission, because through the inclusion of everything in this huge mega omnibus, political contradictions broke out and you even risked a crisis of government: a minister threatened to resign (I am referring, of course, to the delicate and controversial issue of drills) and the House was summoned unnecessarily to give time to this majority to regain its momentary unity and a square. Last week - we forget everything here - we waited unnecessarily for this decree and then arrived on Monday. Already this would suffice to say that in the provision it has been put in everything and that the decree itself has been distorted. Today a profile has been highlighted, with a reference to unconstitutionality, and while we are here to discuss this profile and this preliminary ruling, there are very clear press releases, in which it is said - it is not we who say it here - that there is a concern on the part of the Quirinale, that he would not sign such a decree, infiltrated by too many rules, that he arrives in the Chamber with more than 80 amendments by the majority, that therefore he continues to amend himself by stealing the scene from the oppositions, who have the duty to amend the texts. You will then find yourself having to make choices and give priorities, because if the amount of rules is not reduced and some of these numerous norms are not removed from this text, the decree presents the profiles not only of unevenness, but also of unconstitutionality. Therefore, it is necessary for the majority to make, once again, a choice in method and in substance, because while we are discussing a preliminary question of unconstitutionality, which Brothers of Italy shares, reading these communications means that well above us there are very clear signs of this omnibus decree with too many norms. You will then have to make choices, you will have to give yourself priorities, because in this measure you go from rules on xylella to drills, from web tax to pharmacies, from NCC to DURC, passing through IRES, RC cars, food labels, motorway concessions and much more. I don't want to go on, but I could. You have to give yourself priorities and simplify the measure, give the same greater homogeneity and especially in this choice of priorities, if you want the decree to pass and be signed, you have to stop putting rules in place to basically chase some slices of electorate, however different within the majority. Instead, give the priorities and answers that the country requires. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u30	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u31	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senator colleagues, on Saturday, after a long illness, Giuseppe Zamberletti, elected for seven legislatures, has disappeared, several times Undersecretary and Minister of the Republic. He is responsible for the creation of a modern and innovative Civil Protection. In fact, Zamberletti was able to derive from the emergencies projects and policies of considerable utility for Italy as a whole. He had the objective of reducing the damage caused to our country by natural disasters and errors and man's neglect. He pursued it with admirable ingenuity, competence and perseverance. Since the terrible earthquakes of Friuli and Irpinia, Zamberletti managed to put the central activity of the State, local authorities and voluntary work into order, implementing those principles of solidarity and subsidiarity that have always inspired its political commitment. Always consistent with its democratic-Christian values, he dedicated all his public activity to the common good, with insights that allowed our country to be the protagonist in the relief action even in international contexts. To the family and to all those who are close to him, the senses of the condolences and closeness of the Senate of the Republic reach. I invite you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u32	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u33	Mr President, this decree-law was approved by the Council of Ministers on 15 October last year, then published in the Official Journal and presented to the Senate. It should have been a high-speed train, but it was kidnapped for weeks in a peripheral station by the majority groups, while Parliament, and the Senate Assembly in particular, waited for the measure. In this seizure, carried out by the aforementioned groups, the parliamentarians of the majority, at the initiative of the Group or the Government, have added many other wagons, too many, to the point that the President of the Republic, from agency news, seems to have filtered that he does not agree and that he is not willing to sign a measure that, by decree of simplification, has become of complication. 11.50 a.m. (Urso followed). So, what's gonna happen these hours? First of all, we are discussing a text and amendments which are likely to be withdrawn, after arrangements in some room or bathroom of this Palace among the majority groups, in order to escape a significant warning from the Presidency of the Republic. You were caught with your hands in jam. You have been caught in flagrantness, like thieves of Pisa, while you embark in the wagons of everything, so much of everything that the provision - as I said before - could be called more legitimately "complications" or "corrections," because you correct a series of measures that you have done wrong, from the one on taxation for volunteering to the taxi measure, from the measure on breaking up to the new web tax. You have changed, a few days after their approval, provisions that you yourself have realized: an absolute confusion, in which you yourself appear more than confused, I would say lost. It could also be called "the omnibus decree, " because in the meantime you have added to this decree the extension of the measure of commissioning and financing of Alitalia. What's that got to do with simplification? And with what plan? Without a plan: just extend, more public money without telling us in this House, in seven months, what you want to do with Alitalia. You have inserted the measure on the drills, which according to the associations of enterprises (read the statement of that of Emilia-Romagna) is an industrial suicide, because you block for eighteen months everything, waiting to make the definitive plan, and - as all those who work, who produce, who have a business know - the worst thing is to say that in eighteen months the rules will be changed. It is better to change them immediately, because if you postpone the changes for eighteen months, in the meantime everything is blocked. I say this to the parliamentarians of the League: the Association of Industrialists has defined your decision as an industrial suicide, which allows mainly foreign companies to gain more on our energy supply. You've put in a provision on Xylella. We agree, but I would like to understand if the Movimento 5 Stars also agrees (since the Movimento 5 Stars also included it). I would like to understand what Senator Lello Ciampolillo thinks about it, who had placed his parliamentary residence on an agricultural field to prevent an olive tree that then created infection. Senator Lello Ciampolillo even used his parliamentary prerogatives to protect that sick plant and prevent it from being cut; for this reason the acts were transmitted to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic. With this measure - and it has nothing to do with it - you foresee a new crime, punished with imprisonment from one to five years, for those who do not break down the olive trees affected by Xylella. But, in short, will you then give immunity to the Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars, who has already incurred the crime that you included in this measure, with a sentence from one to five years? Therefore, if I make a list of what you have entered, from pharmacies to RC cars, from DURC to hydroelectric and motorway concessions (a gift!), it is clear that this provision can be called in all ways, but certainly not "simplification." It can be called "complication," it can be called "correction," it can be called "tappabuchi," it can be called "electoral" (because each has inserted something in it that he thinks can produce an electoral result), it can be called "decree figuraccia" because in a few hours you will have to change it in front of the call of the Head of State. You play with words, as you have done in the case of the decree of dignity, in which I point out that in November last year, according to the latest available data, unemployment applications increased by 223,728 units compared to the previous year, with a plus 5.2 percent. Effect of the Dignity Decree? Maybe. Effect of the announcement of citizenship income, why is each being placed in such a position to then obtain citizenship income? Maybe. You have created a parliamentary mess and a legislative mess so that you will now pay the price for it, with the figure you will do in the next few hours to withdraw the amendments you have already tabled and to streamline this measure. I believe that this is the most classic example of what you should have done, whereas through internal confusion - you have entered into the electoral paranoia for which everyone is chasing the other - you have allowed Parliament to create this reproach. We won't allow it anymore. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u34	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u35	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to adopt is an important and structured measure. Parliament is called upon to transform into law a decree-law that the country actually needs. We are talking about measures for support and simplification for businesses and public administration, that is, a measure that we need like air to breathe after ten years of financial crisis and, above all, after seven PD government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The will of our Government, submitted to Parliament's judgment, is to intervene in certain specific areas that today are faced with objective regulatory difficulties. The simplification decree aims to meet the needs of companies and public administrations in various fields: from economic facilities for access to credit to procedural simplifications for waste management, from the rules for participation in public procurement to the accessibility of digital ministerial platforms, from the simplification of the field of recruitment in the world of health and education to better legislation to manage both the existing and the necessarily planned prison building. The institutional passages that we have completed so far here in the Senate for the conversion of this decree-law have taken place in an atmosphere of correctness of which, for intellectual honesty, I must bear witness regarding the relationship between majority and opposition. In fact, all the different political forces in this House have made their contribution, integrating the decree in the manner and to the extent they consider most appropriate and correct. A better, more complete text has emerged in our opinion, which develops the twelve articles of which it is composed in a harmonious way, integrating them in some parts and providing those answers to the problems that, as systematically happened with the left to the Government, were left in a sort of limbo, without being solved or even addressed because probably considered too complex. A clear example is the blocking of the recruitment of law enforcement, madness that has generated an imbalance that we are daily serving and that forced us to act promptly to re-establish a minimum level of employment that can support the whole sector. This emergency, which began with the left governments for which security was obviously something that had relative importance, forced us to make a precise choice: to make a new competition, still standing still waiting for long and uncertain times, or go to hire new agents immediately, drawing from the existing rankings, but respecting the rules in force and therefore those limitations in terms of age and qualifications, according to the changes introduced by the Democratic Party in 2017, excluding in fact a part of the people who had participated in the last competition without obviously being winners. Once again, therefore, we found ourselves having to deal with problems caused by previous governments, looking for the best solution for the country. However, the fact remains that if the recruitment had taken place in time, the problem would not have arisen either and the Democratic Party could have changed the law - as it did - without excluding hundreds of people from the ranking. They promised themselves new agents but, in the end, they never hired because - it was always said - they lacked the money. Yeah, there was always a lack of money to hire agents. Europe was demanding rigour in the accounts, but we could ask for flexibility to give the 80 euros, couldn't we? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Well, there's something new: we're different, we're actually hiring agents. There is much more to this provision and I give some examples. On the local authorities, for example, we will go to provide additional oxygen to the municipalities, completely restoring the IMU-TASI fund that the previous government had decided to interrupt at the end of 2018, but that we, considering it of fundamental importance, had already partially financed for 2019 in the budget law at the end of December. Today we have completely refinanced it. Just to make a summary, in six months we have: made eligible and financed the outskirts ban, unblocked the budget surpluses for the municipalities; given 400 million euros to the municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants; given 250 million euros to the provinces and refinanced in full the 300 million of the IMU-TASI equalization fund. Facts, not promises, that certify our support for local authorities, all too often forgotten (not to say massacred) by the various governments Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the transformation into law of this decree-law, we would (and we want) go to follow the facts to the words regarding the survivors and family members of the victims of the tragedy of Rigopiano, going to establish simple indications for the compensations due. We also intend to provide simplified answers to the issue of food labelling, because we believe that it is a sacrosanct right for citizens to have simple and truthful information about what ends up on their tables. It is of all evidence, therefore, that by transforming this decree-law into law we want to affix some significant and important improvements, but you cannot list them all in the few minutes available. However, we must mention again the restoration of IRES facilitated for non-profit associations and the new legislation for NCCs, the simplification introduced for the orders of lawyers, the passage of the management of hydroelectric concessions to the Regions (forward towards regional autonomy). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This conversion into law of Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018 with urgent provisions on support and simplifications for businesses and public administration is a first important step towards real support and effective simplification which will have to follow in the near future other measures that, I hope, can start from Parliament already in the coming weeks because, as a League, we have in mind several interventions that, we are certain, Italians have been waiting for at least seven years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education (Piaget-Diaz) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u37	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with this debate, I think it is difficult to talk about simplification today, because this measure contains many things, too many. It is now an omnibus measure and there is little or nothing simplification. You see, when it comes to simplification, you imagine that we are going to erase rules and laws that oppress the lives of citizens and businesses, a bureaucracy with more than 110,000 laws, including hundreds of them still when this country was ruled by a king. Instead of simplifying, we are discussing a measure that is a real pot of heterogeneous rules but which has an attractive name: "simplification". In practice, there is absolutely no intention of simplifying rules that burden public administration operations, a communication strategy that, as in other cases, focuses on a simple but effective message about measures with little substance or often with irrelevant rules. A scene already seen: decree security with little security, decree Genoa with little Genoa, decree dignity with little dignity, so a decree simplification with little simplification. Big titles, little content. As always, the disorganization in planning the work in the Commissions, then, reigns supreme and the internal conflicts of the majority have held this Assembly hostage for days: suspension and continuous postponements. More than a simplification decree, a confusion decree. As is repeated in the scene of a majority whose forces quarrel among themselves, which presents a whole series of amendments among the most varied that have little to do with simplification: I am thinking of the moratorium on permits for research and extraction of gas and oil; I am thinking of the amendment concerning companies dealing with circular economy, the one on taxis and NCC or that of the 5 Stars with new constraints for the pharmaceutical sector (you will also be the movement of the people, but in fact served the pharmaceutical multinationals). Let us not forget the amendment on the cut of the IRES that you had to make in order to make up for the gross mistake that you always made in the budget law, where you penalized volunteering. Not least, the amendment on the cancellation of the invitation to tender for the management of the National Agricultural Information System (SIAN). I really hope that the Government has provided for specific acts to protect the workers of those companies that may find themselves in difficulty with the cancellation. A regulatory chaos, therefore, on a measure that should theoretically have the ultimate aim of simplifying procedures. Finally, there are the amendments concerning Xylella and the frosts in Puglia, a correct but late intervention to buffer the disinterest of a budget law in which agriculture has been completely forgotten, or the one that calls for labelling with the indication of Italian origin of the products used in the processing, certainly positive and acceptable, but partial. Colleagues, agriculture, together with Italian fishing and agri-food, need a real simplification work. We need an analysis that can lead to the deletion of rules, laws and bureaucratic acts that stifle the activities of thousands of small and medium-sized farmers and fishermen. Standards that often feed bureaucracy and prevent real productive activity. This means simplifying: lightening the activity of those who produce wealth for our nation. Today, out of here, our farmers and fishermen are living a reality in which to survive their farms is increasingly difficult. They do not need simplification illusions; they need concreteness, that concreteness that always characterizes those who work with the land and the sea every day. But all this would need to be deepened in the competent Commissions in order to be able to put in place truly shared and effective rules for the sector. What is no longer acceptable is this continuous action of which there is no glimpse of a project carried out for the country system: a political action that seems rather aimed at a purely electoral strategy, made of commercials, to satisfy stakeholders and obtain consensus. In conclusion, Mr President, agriculture, fisheries and hunting need an overall strategy and not spot action, with lonely amendments to some general measure. In this way you can put only patches, which, like all patches, leave the time they find. We do not need patches, but a comprehensive and strategic planning that looks to the future of these sectors, and in general of the Nation. The politics of patches is not the politics of Brothers of Italy. It's not the policy that our nation needs. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u40	Thank you, President. The house is mine. Try to touch her... Get close and I'll kill you like a dog. But it's not me, I can't do anything, I lose my job if I don't follow orders. Besides, what do you think you're gonna solve by killing me? They'll hang you, of course, but before they hang you, they'll send another one here, with the tractor, to throw the house down. As you can see, it's useless to kill me. "I see," the half-breed murmured. "But who gives you these orders? It means I'm gonna go find him. He's the one I'm gonna kill." You really don't want to understand. He gets orders from the bank, too. The bank says, kick those people out, knock the house down, or put the place back. But there will also be a president, a direction; I take the rifle and go to the bank to do a carnage. But even the bank, from what I know, receives orders... Orders say: either you show us the profits, or we put you into liquidation. But who do you have to go to then, damn it? There's gotta be a handler to take out. I'm not going to starve to death without killing anyone who kills me. I don't know what to tell you. Maybe there's no one responsible to take out... Probably, as you say, responsible for everything is the property. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you've all intercepted this page from Steinbeck's "Furore" - a great novel that screwed up the story of the great American depression in literature (it was 1939). I've recovered that page so many times. One of the last times was when they threw Sergio Bramini out of the house, who is present in the gallery and I cordially greet with applause [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because it is from the history of Sergio Bramini that there is also a political commitment to modify Article 560 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Sergio has become an emblem. Someone said: "You make the catwalk in front of the house of Sergio Bramini." As you can see, the fact that we are changing that article 560 today means that we have not made any catwalks: it means that Di Maio and Salvini, when they went to visit, with me and others, Sergio Bramini, wanted to deeply affect something that is unfair. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Sergio was an entrepreneur who had claims against the public administration, and those credits became the rope that hung him. And he, in order not to send the employees home - because the real entrepreneurs respect their employees, because the real entrepreneurs of this country know life, death and miracles of their workers and employees [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - What did he do? He's busy his own home. This perhaps in the country you are delivering us, is a mortal sin, because then Sergio was actually dislocated, thrown out following a rule that I consider unfair, and for this reason I am committing myself to you, with the majority, to changing it. What happens is the result of a neoliberal intoxication; it is the result of a sick story, a story for which banking suffering has become more important than those who suffer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, this drives me crazy! Banking suffering becomes central in the story of politics, in the attention of politics, and this makes the sufferer disappear. See that we are not anesthetizing the mortgage and its effects: we just want to rebalance; we just want common sense; we want this to happen - when and if it has to happen - only after the sale of the property. I don't understand the reason why you have to stoop and move, that is to throw people out of the house when the property hasn't yet been sold at auction. This is unfair and this is the theme: suffering cannot come before people, otherwise it happens that, in addition to suffering and suffering, there is an insuffering that becomes social insuffering, and it is the one that triggers a battle between the last and the penultimate. Within those sufferings and within those suffering there is a middle-class piece of the country that is slipping more and more into poverty. But I can't throw people out of the house and move people away when the property is still not sold, otherwise we have to deal with tragic stories of people who are even forced to sleep in the car. What, then, is dignity? What is the crisis that can afford to erase the dignity of people? We can't accept that! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The story of these months and years has given us locust funds, vulture funds. The financial bestiary is a beast that falls ill, which aggravates even more the suffering of people who, as in the case of Sergio, have found themselves having to fail because of a state that did not pay. Today, fortunately, thanks to this Government and this majority, the debts of the public administration will finally be paid [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because the money is made available to these entrepreneurs, but there are also families that, because of the crisis, have not managed to cope with a commitment with the banks. Thank you again for your attention and I also thank Sergio Bramini for the contribution he is making to this majority and to this Government. If anyone and some power think they're gonna get hurt by these people, these people and these powers, I say, Lock down somewhere else, because there is no more room. In this majority we are, with this Government, social ABS. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law "simplification', such as the decrees-law "dignity', "security', "corrotti' or "concreteness', has a good title: it generates expectations that become illusions, but in the meantime these illusions leave Italy more alone and the most fragile people; they leave families and businesses less secure in facing their future. When communication is finally replaced by reporting, utopias and illusions will fall that you have generated in the meantime. The reality will, unfortunately for Italy, show its face. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that unemployment demands are increasing. We are gradually being pushed towards a new recession and the simplification decree will turn into new complications for families and businesses, also because it has been filled in an absurd way, sometimes even abnormal and contrary to the very size of the measure, by countless legislative initiatives. We shall discuss this in greater detail in the debate on the amendments. We welcomed President Patuanelli's proposal to remove from the simplification decree the issue of amending the Procurement Code. However, we believe that there are many subjects that have been introduced, starting with the most sensitive and relevant ones for the economic and social development of our country: I am referring to the great energy issues that you have decided to address in the measure. In short, Italy requires a national energy policy and it is precisely in the ecological conversion of the economy that new employment and new development will be generated. This would have required an organic measure and not measures, such as those contained in the simplification decree, aimed at opening up conflicts rather than solving problems: conflicts between the State and the market or between the public and the private sector, tending all, both with regard to the big issue of drills and the big issue of hydropower, to produce recession and unemployment, not to promote renewable sources and to build new jobs and a new future. There would have been many measures which would have required organic measures and which the majority decided to improperly introduce into the decree. I think it is important to simplify the amendments in order to restore, even constitutionally, the necessary consistency between a decree-law adopted several months ago and the parliamentary act being discussed in the context of the conversion. We need a realignment that I hope you will find in the next few hours. I cannot fail to stress, within the decree, those which I believe are correct corrections introduced to your budget law, adopted a month ago, even in relation to so many amendments that were not accepted at that time and at that stage; with superficiality and with the majority continuing an opposition to the past have not been transposed since the budget law. I am referring to two fundamental issues: IRES and local authorities. In the case of IRES, in my opinion, an objective fact emerges: we have always argued that poverty is not defeated by decree; that loneliness and fragility require work, not subsidies; that poverty has as a common denominator a cultural issue and therefore needs training. We need to take care of the lonely and fragile people and therefore we need a territorial dimension of the taking over. It is not enough for the employment centres and the necessary reforms that will have to involve them; an alliance between the public, volunteering and non-profit is needed. You, with the budget law, wanted to double taxes to associations that in our territories contribute to alleviating loneliness, countering it and generating acceptance and taking charge. We, with our amendment, which you supported and shared today, restore, in my view, with fairness, a just alliance between the State, institutions, society and the community. That was an unjust tax, which must be cancelled here and which the Democratic Party's initiative has helped to cancel. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have made proposals on local authorities since the debate on the budget law that have now been incorporated into this measure. I am referring to the decision then, in my view, to not properly size the refreshment of the IMU-TASI fund. It is not true that there was a responsibility of previous governments: it was the budget law that introduced a decrease in that fund; Today, thanks to an amending proposal accepted within this measure, you correctly restore a deduction for territorial authorities. The two issues that I have addressed (IRES and territorial authorities) show a necessity: there is no shortcut to generate reception and contrast loneliness and indifference; it is necessary to leave the territory and do so together, in an alliance between the State, associations and local authorities. This line, which we had proposed since the presentation of the draft budget law, was not heard there. The decree-simplification law becomes, therefore, a correction - in my opinion too rapid - demonstrating that, if you listen to the opposition's proposals too, you can improve the legislative measures and not necessarily you must continue to operate in an opposition that looks to the past and not to the present and the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, January is coming to an end, and this measure, together with those coming in the coming weeks, marks a sharp break from the past and from a negative practice, which unfortunately did not seem to have been cured. This for years was the time when traditional parties "gave the La" to the "festival of favors" to facilitate this or that friend. I know that many of my colleagues who have been most of them in recent years will be sorry, but so much so. You will have to get used to the idea that there must be the citizen and the general interest at the heart of Parliament's political action; certainly not the particularisms. This aberration of the beginning of the year, as it is clear, will not happen this year because in the decree-simplification law it is necessary to clarify and modify rules that for years block various areas of the public administration, with targeted interventions that will give tangible results already in the short term. This measure is an aid to those in difficulty, often not for their own faults. All small and medium-sized enterprises that have debts to the public administration will be protected by an ad hoc fund, which will support many businesses in our country in restoring their debts to the banks. In those who still sit in Parliament and have witnessed over the years, without doing anything, reports of dozens and dozens of bankrupt entrepreneurs because of the delays in public administration payments today should trigger at least a feeling of deep shame, truly profound. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague, Mr Paragon, who is spending so much on this subject and on which, I am sure, he will not go back even one inch, either today or in the future. Not only small and medium-sized enterprises: the Government and the majority have already been careful and careful to intervene on time in the presence of tragedies and natural disasters. It is a fact the planning and implementation in a few months of a strategic plan for the reconstruction of the bridge of Genoa. Unfortunately, however, we have faced and managed the future of those who have been hit in the past years by calamitous events and have received nothing from the State. Those who have ruled the country in recent years have not wanted to lend a hand to those who have found themselves the victim of events that are totally beyond their will; for this reason it is good to reiterate that these people must necessarily be supported by a Parliament and an Executive that cannot always and only do the minimum indispensable and limit themselves to mourning. In this measure we insert, therefore, a help for those families that were devastated by the avalanche of January 2017 in Rigopiano; it is a gesture that comes after the measures included in the budget law, with the extension of the urban free zone, indispensable for the entire Apennine crater, as well as the extension of the extraordinary assumptions, the suspension of the payment of the IMU and the mortgages for the populations affected by the earthquake of Emilia of 2012. The text under discussion today is the natural continuation of a work that we have been carrying out for months and in it we are consistent with our history and with the battles that the Movement has always carried out. At last, there is a brake on all activities of exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons throughout the national territory, activities that are not strategic in nature for our future. The reason for all this is to be found in the confusing policy, without a strategic plan, which the previous governments have implemented in granting permits for drilling; a plan, instead, that this Executive has perfectly clear and aims at renewable sources, in opposition to the recent past. Our idea is a country that aims decisively at decarbonisation and overcoming all fossil energy sources, in an organized and shared transition between government and local authorities. Until the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan for suitable areas is defined, all authorisations already issued will be suspended, along with of course all requests for new explorations. I am sincerely curious to understand what a certain type of press will be invented tomorrow to distort the clarity of this rule; clarity that is the same expressed by Minister Costa on the subject and that we will not leave alone in this battle. Already in October Minister Di Maio managed to block the drillings in the Province of Modena and Reggio Emilia, on which I signed a parliamentary question together with Senator Mantovani, and with this measure we block dozens of requests for further authorizations. The voice of the citizens who have been asking us for years to stop this mess of our territory will finally be heard. No one will pretend that drilling is strategic for national growth anymore; no one will subordinate respect for the territories to the will of a Ministry in the past governed by powers outside politics. 2019 could not start in a better way for many Italians: fighting bureaucracy, protection towards the territory and, in the coming weeks, the fight against poverty with the arrival of citizenship income: a help for so many citizens that has been invoked for years and instead does not make so many of you sleep because you do not approve it. I would like to be very clear: if it is true (and true) that it is better a free criminal than an innocent in prison, in the same way it is better that a non-enabled person has the income of citizenship rather than deprive a destitute of it. It's the controls that will make the difference, with severe penis for those who will look for tricks to get the not due. The fact that someone will try not to behave well must not make us stand still without thinking of millions of citizens who are really struggling. The first change must come from ourselves: all of us are society and a just society sees its members respecting its laws. In the event that we are properly sanctioned for any infringement, we must proceed to the payment without wondering if there can be anyone in that office who favours us. Clever people must not find those who support them: this principle is of disarming simplicity. I invite those who tear their clothes in front of these common sense rules that help many Italians to reread the data of the Oxfam a few days ago. I would like to know if it is a fair country for you what 5% of the population sees possessing the wealth of almost the remaining 95%. I repeat: I would like to know if it is a fair country for you that sees 5% of the population possess the wealth of almost the remaining 95%. I would like to know who has the courage to be happy with such an alarming situation. That is why I hope that everyone will come back to thinking about the significance of public policies, policies which must necessarily aim at the welfare of the largest part of the population possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u45	Mr President, it has already been said by those who have preceded me that, like many others, the decree-law under consideration has a high-sounding nickname: decree-law "simplification"; in reality, however, it has become a complicated rule in which compromises have been introduced and useful corrections to errors committed by the budget law, in which an attempt has been made to wink at one or the other according to the conveniences of the forces of the majority. There is, however, a theme on which the decree-law in question simplifies the work: it simplifies the work of the mafias. I want to say this very clearly and not by making a joke, and I will try to prove it. After raising to 150,000 euros the limit below which there is no need to race but you can award contracts of works and services with direct custody, we had explained that, with the decree under consideration, they would correct this forecast and they would specify that it was a rule in time and that it would be in force only for the financing of the last budget law directed to small and medium municipalities to allow them to speed up those contracts; none of this has been done. So a gift has been made, there is no trace of the things you said would be introduced, and it is confirmed that below 150,000 euros the contracts of works and services will be given with direct trust. I want to say that because we are talking about 90% of the contracts that are entrusted by the public administration and the municipalities. You have approved the draft law, but today you create the conditions to increase discretion and decrease transparency in the award of contracts. So we go back to the past, when direct trusts allowed so much corruption and the mafias to get their hands on so many contracts. You wanted to put your hand in the law on voting, as well as approving the scrubber, explaining that this legislation had to be completely changed. In our opinion, this is not the case, because it is a clear law, which punishes the vote of exchange, i.e. votes in exchange for favours. You wanted to show that you have to do "plus one" on this and now allow, with the aforementioned rule, to clear the way for those who, in exchange for votes, will be able to obtain contracts. Much of the dissolution of the municipal councils took place because, with direct trusts, the mayors, in exchange for votes, allowed the mafias and the corrupt to have what they wanted. Well, that's the point, but that's not all there is. The abolition of the Waste Traceability Control System (SISTRI) without any other traceability tool for waste is also a serious error. I know that this is a system that does not work or works badly and I know that it creates excessive bureaucracy. However, at the moment when all the prosecutors and the same report - just see the number of fires - explain to us that the illegal and illegal trafficking of waste is one of the fundamental issues on which the mafia is committed [[Applause from the PD Group]] , removing the only tool for traceability of the routes, the supply chain and the traffic of waste, without replacing it with another, is a serious error. This too is certainly a simplification. We intervene on a measure that certainly does not work well, but removing it without other traceability measures is very serious and I want to repeat it. Some Members in this House celebrated in the streets the approval of the "mythical" piece of shit, celebrating a measure that was useless to us, but which had become symbolic. With these two measures, today, concretely, on the merits, they celebrate the mafias. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u46	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to refer to Article 9, which deals with health matters, provided that it does not fall within the 40 amendments that you are preparing to make, in which case we shall have done a minimum of dialectical exercise. However, we are talking about issues which are, in any case, pressing in the field. It is estimated a deadline in 2025, where authoritative sources speak of the lack of about 15,000 doctors as a result of a sort of perfect storm that brings together numerous causes, all however that contribute to create a huge potential danger for our National Health Service, which this year celebrates its forty years, between virtues and defects. Article 9 of the simplification decree deals with this highly complex matter in such a way - to remain in medical-health terms - to treat symptoms but not the cause, the underlying malaise. The practice of the medical profession is open to a sort of deregulation that certainly responds, in its own way, to the real need to guarantee the numbers to the National Health Service, but that creates enormous problems in terms of the skills and tranquility of the user of the Service itself. Try, colleagues, to imagine your access to the emergency room of a hospital - it can happen every day to all of us - and to find yourself facing an unskilled doctor. Access to the emergency room is one of the most critical moments in the life of each of us, because we denounce a malaise and very often we do not have a precise diagnosis. Try to think about the need to diagnose in useful times, i.e. by resetting latency, a heart attack: it is evident the need to have more doctors of emergency-emergency and certainly open this profession to doctors not specialized in emergency is a story that creates not a few perplexities, indeed arouses a sincere concern. Moreover, this whole game is burdened by a misinterpretation: the problem of the availability of specialists refers to the need to expand the numbers of specialization schools. Opening up such a sensitive subject to non-specialists should, at least, impose an obligation on them to obtain specialization. It would also be possible to do this at no cost, since those people, however, would be paid by the National Health Service and should be required to be included, perhaps overnumbered, in specific specialization courses, but this step is not foreseen. This is not, ladies and gentlemen, a question of technical goat wool: we are talking about practical life and the real danger to the lives of our fellow citizens. It is a huge, gigantic matter that is being treated for inspiration. I hope that this is only a first step, in the sense that it cures with aspirin a serious disease waiting to identify, perhaps, the right antibiotic therapy - I always use useful terms for the purpose - but this is not in the text. There is no promise to provide with a system measure to fill the gaps of doctors, to wipe out the madness of the closed number, perhaps opening up to a virtuous relationship with the private, responding to the need to increase the places of the specialization schools. There is none of this. This measure is a set of rules which are - I repeat - questionable and does not anticipate anything concrete. I believe and hope that Parliament will be able to intervene - I appeal to my colleagues, including those of the Health Commission - in its autonomy in the next few days, in order to fill a problem which alone is capable of blowing up the National Health System. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u48	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, first of all, after the legitimate representations that the oppositions made in this House at the time of the adoption of the budget law, at the beginning of my speech I would like to acknowledge that in the examination of the measure in question all the parliamentary passages have been widely respected, like the prerogatives of all the senators, before in the Commission and now also in the Chamber. It is therefore right that we should take note of this, also in the light of the immense and difficult work that the Commissions have done, for which I would like to thank the two Presidents Coltorti and Borghesi and also the rapporteur, Mrs Pirovano, who have allowed us to accept the requests of all the senators, examining them and giving you an appropriate response. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Lanzi.]] At the same time, for that intellectual honesty that does not lack to any of the present, it is also fair to say that, if this decree-law becomes an omnibus - or has risked to do so - it is by the will of all of us, of the majority, but also of the opposition. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi.]] The latter did not hesitate - legitimately - to table a number of innumerable amendments, which, in most cases, had nothing to do with the original core of the decree-law under consideration. When discussing a preliminary question - it has rightly been rejected - which looks not only at the justification of the decree of urgency, but also at the coherence in the development of parliamentary work with respect to the decree-law given birth by the Government, I call on the oppositions to make clarity within them. In fact, if they first present a substantial number of amendments, then they cannot propose a preliminary question, also because the decree-law is distorting the original prediction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] There is yet another issue on which I would like to reflect for a moment: the discussions - and not the quarrels - which took place within the majority have focused on important issues for the country, which concern the development and protection of health, the environment and also employment levels. It was a matter of substantive debate and, if it does not deal with politics, I do not see who should do it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi.]] I realize that in the past political discussions were focused on armchairs, on the presidents of the boards of directors or on the managing directors. When we talk about drills, however - to exemplify - it is true that different points of view have been compared - we do not discover hot water - but it is also true that, starting from a shared perspective, that is the energy transition, we have also talked about the possibility of using and exploiting an opportunity that mother nature can give us in Italy and we absolutely cannot waste. We say yes to this phase of transition, but in a rational way, with common sense and without putting both our industrialists and our workers in difficulty. You will forgive me if we do not accept lessons on this - we cannot do so - from those who have drilled our country at sea and on land, trampling both the health of the citizens and the environment of our territories. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is a balance that has been achieved between two forces of majority, two political forces that have put common sense, a sense of responsibility, but also coherence. Another aspect that escapes in this debate, in fact, is that the simplification decree is consistent with what the Government and the majority have done so far: we try to reduce bureaucracy and spending and we try to support especially the smallest or, better, those who are suffering and in difficulty. I do not want to list a number of measures that have been launched with the finance. But when the simplification decree helps small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the inefficiency of the public administration, which have had to borrow to go ahead and pay their salaries, this is a point of common sense; it is a point of consistency with the measures we have taken so far, which certainly requires urgent decision-making. When you put your hand on the labour market and take away another piece of the Jobs Act, which has given so much bad luck to Italy and the Italian workers; when you delete the single book of work, because it is useless and expensive, this is a passage of common sense; and it is a passage of common sense also coherent, because it goes in the direction of the decree of dignity. Only those who are in bad faith cannot see the numbers that Veneto has recorded, demonstrating that jobs have increased by far without a time limit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Just as it is in bad faith those who do not see the consequentiality - for example - between the 100 and the 127 stabilizations that Piaggio will soon make in Pontedera. What are visions? On the one hand there are simplification and stability; on the other hand there are bureaucracy and precariousness. Often for so long, for too long, bureaucracy, and therefore the appesting of the various ganglia of power, and precariousness have been sources of electoral consensus. That era is now over, because we want to replace bureaucracy and precariousness with freedom and stability. In the decree simplifications we also talk about prison building: we try to accelerate the construction of new prisons and to do extraordinary maintenance on those existing, giving direct competences to the Ministry of Justice, in particular to the DAP. A measure that looks to dignity deserves urgent decree, because it fights prison overcrowding, giving dignity to prisoners, as well as to the prison police who work in these prisons? Then there is another question, which concerns the reduction of the thresholds for direct trusts. I believe that the position taken by the opposition is absolutely abnormal, illogical and not consistent with reality, because it is clear that we start from different assumptions. For us there is the presumption that all the mayors and their leaders are good people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] and able to use this rule not to do the dirty interests of some criminal, but to put economy and currency into circulation to help businesses and offer services to their citizens. Evidently someone is animated by bad faith, but it is not so, also because the underworld (organized crime and not only) has made its best fortunes even when these thresholds were far lower. It's right that we say what we're talking about, though. With 150,000 euros direct custody is allowed with a market survey between three companies, where existing, to do some work. With EUR 350 000, the negotiated procedure is envisaged, under which a market investigation must be carried out between at least ten companies. Do we want to block the economy because there are fears, excuses or prejudices? We want to make courage prevail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We do not fight the underworld by making rules that harness political action in bureaucracy. You fight the underworld, as we wanted to do with the "bad sweep," putting the right people in the right place and ensuring that there are honest people, where someone - it happens too - is not honest. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that I have learned another lesson this morning: the current oppositions have not disarmed themselves with the book of dreams that they gave to the Italians, both when they were in government and today they are in opposition. We certainly do not want to frustrate their desire to cradle him, pamper him and keep him, but surely we want to replace this our concrete action, because also from here passes the change of the majority and the government, replacing the illusions that for so long have been disseminated in Italy of the concrete facts so that the country can finally get up again. The measure under consideration is another step in this direction. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Primary School "Nuova direzione didatttica Vasto," in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u51	Senator Campagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree-law we are examining provides for a series of actions aimed at simplifying and supporting important areas of the life of citizens, businesses and public administrations; a measure which, in the generality of its structure, shows the decisive change of pace and speed that the Government and the majority intend to support in order to promote the growth of our society. I also want to focus, in particular, on the importance of the regulatory provision introduced by Article 1, for the positive and tangible effects it will have on the lives of so many people, and especially on that healthy and productive part of the country, namely the tens of thousands of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. Article 1 of the measure under consideration, through the establishment of a special section of the Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, will support all small and medium-sized enterprises which are creditors of public administrations who, due to delays in payment of claims they have claimed, have encountered difficulties in returning loans previously contracted with supervised banks or financial intermediaries. The special section of the Fund shall intervene by granting a guarantee to the person (bank or financial intermediary) who has provided the loan that the undertaking has difficulty in returning. It is, in essence, public support that is accessible to companies that demonstrate the existence of a credit to public administrations and the difficulty or impossibility of returning a previous financing. It is an absolutely necessary intervention in times when the life of the entrepreneur is a continuous challenge. Those who set up a company today know well what the effort, the passion and the sacrifices mean. It is constantly put to the test by complicated situations, which bring fears and concerns. There is the fear of not being able to reach a satisfactory turnover or of not being able to recover in time its credits in order to respect the tight deadlines of the installments of financing contracted in order to be able to maintain the activity, the own family and the family of own employees: the fear, in short, of failing, of losing something or even of losing everything. For decades the news has told us scandalous stories of desperate entrepreneurs forced to take note of the failure of their work, of their own enterprise intended as a project that holds together income and a sense of life. They are stories of citizens who represent the entrepreneurial life of our country, abandoned to themselves by a policy that for too long has remained deaf to demands for support and compliance with the rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We all know the sad story of Sergio Bramini, an entrepreneur who failed and evicted from home, despite boasting credits to the State for over 4 million euros. The Movimento 5 Stars and the Minister Di Maio strongly wanted the appointment of Bramini, which represents the symbol of Italian heroes who fight every day for the survival of their activity, as consultant to the Ministry of Economic Development to immediately launch a message of hope, but above all to find concrete solutions for many, too many citizens who are in the same absurd conditions. Today the State intends to take on its responsibilities, finally responding to the cry of help of those who live the economic difficulties like a noose around the neck that tightens up to lead to despair and depression, even, unfortunately, to the fulfilment of extreme gestures. With this guarantee, the State launches a lifesaver to small entrepreneurs in order to prevent creditors from infecting their personal assets, allowing them to be able to save their assets as well as their own company; a measure, moreover, rewarding healthy enterprises and with prospects of development as the granting of the guarantee is conditional on the subscription of a plan for the return of debt between the bank and the beneficiary undertaking that proceeds to a renegotiation of the previous financing, especially with regard to its duration. In this way, Italy enters by right into the novero of the most modern countries in the matter of support to the enterprises. I should like to conclude my first speech in this House by expressing my absolute conviction and my greatest satisfaction in supporting this measure, which addresses with courage and determination the problems that a bad policy has created to the best and most productive part of our country. That's why I say: never again failed because of the state! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u53	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u54	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the strength of our country is represented by agro-food, crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government's inescapable task is to improve the prestige of these peculiarities in order to make Italy an international model more than it is already recognized. Facilitating the creativity, taste and refinement of our productions is essential to continue on the path of primacy. The prestige of our know-how is increased by establishing a continuous exchange of information between the operators of the sectors and those who work in the institutions to keep up with the times, if not to anticipate them, aiming at innovation combined with sustainability. The direction required to give relief to the different sectors is the simplification of the regulations and therefore, also in agriculture, it is necessary to pay attention and give the right importance to a primary sector par excellence and prestige. Agriculture is proving to be a branch of our economy of growing interest, especially for young people with a high level of education, despite a number of problems linked to the risks of poor profitability, bureaucratic obstacles and little attention at European level, as well as the now long-standing domain of distribution over production. But we are here, with the greatest effort, to rebalance the sector, to give farmers the right reward for the work they have done, keeping awareness of the heavy and unpredictable risks they are frequently exposed to, including climate risks. In fact, the risk management of natural adversities is no longer negligible, as these are being extremed, causing unsustainable damage to companies. Indispensable is a more profitable and effective collaboration between the State and the Regions in their respective rural development plans, maintaining well defined and typical productions related to the territory. Even in the wake of a favourable rebirth, much work is still waiting for us, both as far as we are concerned and in Europe, with a view also to the programming of the CAP 2021-2027. A national strategic plan for agriculture should therefore be put in place at Community level, with the main objective of increasing the profitability of farmers, greater cohesion in the agricultural world and cooperation between small businesses. In the Decree-Law simplifications we put the first bricks in order to meet the demands of the operators of the agricultural sector. We will certainly continue to confront each other so that the vitality in place is not embarrassed, without repressing the quality of the requirements for the protection of workers and consumers. The aim is to introduce the elimination of repetitive compilations of documents between the various offices, giving the possibility of exchanging data; simplification in working relationships for a short time, both for health checks and for payments. The aim is to facilitate the recognition of the status of farmer where there is real activity and the passion for the cultivation of land. Not to be overlooked is the premium for virtuous companies, in terms of the correct application of standards and in terms of innovation in the coupled productivity and sustainability. The aim is to strengthen the instruments for organising OPs in order to offset the dominant power of distribution in the agri-food chain; to promote easier access to credit for less-interest agricultural enterprises. In terms of transparency, efforts must be made to ensure that the origin of the raw materials on the labels of the products for sale is clearly indicated at all levels; to ensure a more rapid spread of digital platforms that meet the simplification, which is unanimously required, and the reduced consumption of paper, together with the installation of high-speed communications networks, as well as more effective management that requires acceleration in the European programme of the Digital Agenda. These are just a few points that our agriculture will have to address in the near future in order to become a strong and competitive sector. On the Italian economic scene, attention must be paid to agriculture, a basic sector, even if it is not the most important item in gross domestic product. The best energies must be put in place to grow a primary sector that the world appreciates. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u56	Mr President, I do not want to repeat what has already been said in this House this morning and which is now of plastic evidence. In the great bazaar of the Decree-Law simplifications there is a rule - let me call it discriminatory and illegitimate - on which I want to draw the attention of the survivors of this House who follow the general debate. Above all I want to draw the attention of both the majority and the opposition also in view of what was said this morning about the question by Quirinale whether or not to sign a decree-law that provides too many norms, even uneven, which will force the majority to cut some of the over 80 rules in excess. I would therefore like to suggest - to those who have to make cuts and who have to thin out to simplify - that the scissors should be placed precisely on Amendment 11,17 ex text 2, now text 3. Let me explain to you who did not follow the Commission's work. We are discussing in this House the simplification decree-law, on which we have already ironized - forgive us - that contains urgent provisions on support and simplification for businesses and public administration. Why do I say that there is a discriminatory element in this decree? I say this because - and I draw your attention to this - there is an incident related to the sliding of the rankings of the written tests of the competition for the recruitment of 893 students agents of the State Police (later elevated to the number of 1,182), that is the ranking of the so-called civilians. What is the context? The government is considering hiring 1,851 new police officers. Fine, but that's not the point. There is a'ma': a surprise amendment is tabled whereby only those who have not reached the age of twenty-six and who hold a high school diploma will be required to carry out subsequent tests of the competition. What are discrimination and illegality? The call for competition and, therefore, what was then contained in the notice - provided that those who had not passed the age of thirty (not twenty-six) before the end of the registrations could participate in the competition, and had obtained the average license as a qualification. Under the amendment to which I would like to draw everyone's attention, thousands of aspiring policemen will - allow me the term - be thrown out of the competition by virtue of a rule that is created and inserted after the competition. The aspiring policemen in question, who in these days have also tried to denounce the aberrant situation through trade union forms, have also been prejudiced in the past - I mean - always because of a criterion, not even provided for by the ban, and were not called upon to support physical evidence because the administration called only a small part of it. But - as they say - we go back to the bomb. You don't change the rules of the game in progress [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , when there was a ban and a contest took place partially. The discriminatory effect of the amendment in question is that young and deserving candidates who have already acquired eligibility should be penalised. The context is that we have an already approved ranking and an amendment that subverts it, risking - I repeat, because they are not numbers, but people and families - to leave 14,000 people on the street, in a field, such as that of security, which I believe is heart not only to a part of the majority and the government, but to the entire country and certainly is very dear to the Brothers of Italy. This is the absurd story of the ban of 148 students of Police, closed - I want to reiterate - in May 2018, with a list of suitable not winners who aimed at this scrolling, but who, by virtue of this amendment, will not be able to enjoy it in their favour. In the meantime it is a discriminatory rule compared to the ban, which also goes to have a real negative impact on thousands of eligible non-winners left in play, who aimed at sliding the ranking. This amendment introduces new criteria which effectively eliminate most of the aspirants, i.e. all those who are not older than twenty-six years old. These are people who will be bypassed by other people who have achieved lower scores only for a matter of record. I wonder and ask you whether an amendment rejected in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then retabled, withdrawn and modified (but in fact not amended at all), is obviously not an amendment of discord with discriminatory principles and illegality. I have other things to add, but I think I have made myself clear in the beginning. Since you have to get rid of it, I invite you to do a justice operation and cut this amendment off. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Berardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u57	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u58	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, Decree-Law No 135, contrary to what happened under the budget law, has been examined in the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a, even if the sessions have been repeatedly disconcerted, and brings, at least in the intention of the original text and from the introductory report, urgent provisions on support and simplification for businesses and public administration, aimed at overcoming situations of serious difficulty in the dynamics of market relations with the public administration. The bureaucracy had to be cut and life made easier for citizens and businesses, but in the long run to the Senate the decree, in fact, has turned into an omnibus text, enriched by various norms, ranging from the reduction of IRES for non-profits, to 10 million for the families of the victims of Rigopiano, from the NCCs to the obligation to destroy the olive trees affected by Xylella, up to labelling. To lengthen the times, there was above all the theme of drills, which made the work of the Commissions proceed sobbing, and on which an agreement was then found that leaves Italian environmentalists a little puzzled. I have tabled a number of amendments which have unfortunately been rejected in the Commissions. I proposed a moratorium on agricultural holdings, even in previous measures, with a 24-month suspension of the debts of farmers, farmers, farmers and fishermen in difficulty. In case of benefit, they could have paid their debts up to seventy-two months. However, since the budgetary manoeuvre, this measure has been declared impossible, despite Article 1 of the Decree-Law establishing, within the framework of the Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, a special section dedicated to guarantee measures for SMEs. Another environmental amendment, which has always been rejected, provided for the repeal of Article 41 of the Genoa Decree on sewage sludge. My greatest concerns about the news approved are related to the relationship with the Constitutional Charter: pending an organic review of the sector's legislation - as Minister Costa had also promised - care must be taken to ensure that this matter does not adversely affect the right to health protected by Article 32 of the Constitution. The good of life and the environment deserve protection and the enormous increase in limits that we have seen attempts to undermine these objectives. Moreover, the European Union, with its directives, also calls for caution and discipline in the use of sludge to avoid harmful effects on the ground. I have also tabled a number of agendas for the moratorium on money laundering and drilling, which are also not considered. The moratorium on drilling, in fact, does not specify that 15 new revelations will be authorised, of which 4 at sea and 11 on land. The rule, in fact, saves from the moratorium the requests of concession already in place on the date of entry into force of the law and also the concessions in expiration will be automatically renewed without control, including those of Val d'Agri, in Basilicata, expiration 31 October 2019. I'd like to say that Senator Pepe could stop the mess in Basilicata, but he didn't. He did not challenge the EIA that the Basilicata Region had proposed through a resolution, thus demonstrating that he was more interested in financial refreshment than in the protection of our territory. With regard to paragraph 7, I welcomed the rapporteur's amendment on xylella, but I also tabled an amendment on this subject both in the Commission and in this House. In this decree-law we want to introduce provisions to deal with xylella and we want to deliberately authorize the felling of trees with a rule that even introduces the prison for those who refuse to cut plants; a violation of the right of private property and our landscape that is protected by the Constitution. The same amendment as the rapporteurs provided that this criminality rule should be conceived in a very discretionary way. On Thursday we will have a press conference on this subject, because the same regulatory framework should be better implemented. I should like to conclude by saying that, with regard to the labelling article, it would have been appropriate, as consumers ask, to include a rule which would also include the indication of toxicological residues and not just the origin of the raw material. On this point, I reserve the right to make an amendment to the first relevant measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u59	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, we are talking about a measure, the simplification measure, to which I have heard a number of criticisms. However, first of all, I would like to thank the two competent Commissions and the rapporteurs in this House, for having followed the process, like so many other Members, I have seen the great work that has been done on this measure, in which we have tried to incorporate everything that was possible, to give answers on so many issues that are on the agenda at this time. As far as the issues covered by the Committee on Agriculture are concerned, there were many of them within this measure. Some of them have been dealt with in the Commission, but I would like to focus mainly on two. Senator De Bonis spoke on a very important subject, which we discussed in the Commission, Xylella, which is devastating some regions of southern Italy, mainly the Puglia Region. I know that Minister Centinario is working and has a decree ready, which will most likely come late, certainly not because of the Minister of Agriculture, but because of those who, in the past years, did not want to deal with this issue. Today we have reached the writing of a decree that will arrive - from what we are told - to days and that will face (hopefully and I am radically convinced) the theme of the advance of this scourge for the olive growing of our country. Another very important amendment that I wanted to bring into question in this House and for which I would like to express my thanks, because it will most likely have unanimous approval from everyone, is the one on the labelling of food products in our country. We have been working on this since 2011 and I filed a bill when he was still Minister Zaia and we were trying to take the first steps towards the identity of the food products that arrive on the shelves of citizens. Many years have passed since then and so many governments and no one has ever managed to solve the problem, today, most likely, we will finally be able to give a turn towards the quality, transparency, genuineness of the products that arrive on the shelves and tables of our consumers. Some people object that this is an easy measure. I do not think it was so easy to get it, because, as we know very well, the Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments have passed and nothing has been achieved on this issue. I remember - I say this without controversy - when Minister Martina said that we finally managed to have labelling on products: yes, but what kind of labelling did we have up to now? We had a label that made it, for example, that the tomato that came from China, once transformed into this country, became, from Chinese tomato, tomato produced in Italy. So the Italian housewife, Mrs. Maria on duty, thought of eating Italian tomato and instead ate Chinese. With this measure, however, we will finally have the greatest transparency and guarantee the identity of our products on the tables of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We must be proud of this, because in the end quality and transparency will turn into a reality that is also reddite, giving dignity to the resources and the work of our good farmers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u60	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank you and, through you, I would like to thank my fellow Members who would like to hear this in general debate, for we are still in time to take joint action to prevent a very serious situation which is likely to end up in the next few minutes. I am referring to the changing of the requirements with which we are going to draw on the rankings for competitions in the State Police, whose theme therefore does not concern the political parties. It happens that thousands of young people are writing about being in a valid ranking, the daughter of a competition notice that included requirements and that, after the completion of the tests, has given rise to a ranking in force against which we say that we will go to draw by changing the requirements for hiring. I believe there is a theme not only of present unconstitutionality, but also of illegality. The content of the messages, ladies and gentlemen, is as follows: Senators of the Republic, but what is my fault? That of turning 27, 28 or 29? This is because we modify an ongoing ban that provided for the requirement not to exceed 30 years of age, saying that we only take those under 26 years of age. The colleague of the League, who spoke earlier, said that this change was ours in the last parliamentary term, but it is too serious what is happening to play with responsibilities: in the last parliamentary term, as you will recall, Mr President, we adopted a measure concerning the requirements of the bans that we are going to put in place from now on, but what I refer to is an open ban, it is a valid ranking. Well, I am so respectful of this House, even when I hear things far from reality, that I would like to join Mr Paragon's call to say: less attentive to banking suffering and more attentive to the suffering of those young people who are waiting for a chance, that of serving the State! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Vitali]] They don't have the right to become cops, but they have the right to try and give him a public ban. Mr President, I also appeal directly to you to have the capacity, even in these hours, to prevent an unlawful act. I am convinced that there is no consideration, beyond the divisions and the different political belongings, that can make this choice legitimate. The requirements can change starting from the calls we will make from here on, but with open ban, to a person who is in a ranking and has the right to be called in the scrolling because he has a degree provided by the ban, let's say that it is not enough? We will do so in the next bans. Otherwise, Mr President, the risk we run is that we are approaching the idea of the police and, of the servants of the State wearing some uniforms, in a questionable way in my opinion, but we are taking this idea away from those children who had only one intention, one dream, one ambition: that of being able to compete for weapons equal to becoming servants of the State. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u62	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I woke up in a whitewashed Trento and for us Trentino, who were waiting for the snow, is certainly a reason for satisfaction. That white man had also led me to try to reflect on the intervention I should have made this morning, in order to be as positive, optimistic and constructive as possible. So I tried to combine my morning feeling, determined by the atmospheric climate that I found in my city when I woke up, with our parliamentary work. Despite my good will and, as I said, my good disposition, I have done really hard and unfortunately I have not managed to find some elements that allow me to speak with positivity of this umpteenth decree-law, which bears a name, but that in reality is nothing more than an omnibus decree. I know that previous speakers have already been able to discuss these issues. Mr President, I would like to remind you of my speech during the pre-Christmas period, when we were going to conclude the examination of the so-called budget law, in a very unhonorable way for the Houses of Parliament. While criticizing certain attitudes even of part of the opposition, which had no respect for the institutions, I had made an appeal to everyone indiscriminately, addressing myself first, so that, in our different positions and ideologies, we might try to respect as much as possible the citizens who elected us and that is to be as consistent as possible with a programme of seriousness, in which the institutions are truly represented in a correct way. Properness is certainly to respect the vote in the Commissions, to intervene without offending anyone, not to make dramatic gestures, as has also been done in this House, but the correctness lies also, on the part of those who have the burden and the honor of administering the country, in respecting the rights of parliamentarians first of all, which has rarely happened, as well as in being consistent at the time of issuing a decree-law and talking about simplifications. Dear friends of the majority, the citizen expects, from a "decree simplifications" of simplifications in his life, in his action in the enterprise and in his professional activity. Well, that is what our voters, the voters of the right we represent, but also the voters of the left and the centre, of those who are above and of those who are below, all the voters who have brought us here, to Parliament. I challenge anyone to tell me that we will be able to show citizens that this is a simplification decree. This is a decree-law that does nothing but try to reach an agreement in an unstable majority, which starts from positions often far from reality, which is concerned by the approaching European elections and therefore is concerned that it is not fully consistent with the promises made recklessly - and I also say unconsciously - to voters, promising them everything and more, and that today, therefore, it tries to blur a decree-law, in which to "hunt inside" a bit of everything. In the measure we find a bit of exasperated environmentalism, because in order to block growth and development, in the perspective of happy decline, obviously we have to go towards exasperated environmentalism, which is much more than environmentalism and environmental protection. Then we must continue on the path of ecotaxes and on the road of no to the drills, of no to development and of no TAV: in essence, we must continue not to give future and prospects to the country. Mr President, I should like to end my speech with the hope, which comes from the positive state of mind I had this morning and which I would like to maintain, that everyone should try to move in a more coherent direction, not so much with the promises, but with the seriousness, consistency and rules that must follow our parliamentary work. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I will probably not commit all ten minutes and I will not do so for a procedural economy, because we are waiting for the outcome of the admissibility judgment on the amendments and we would probably risk discussing issues and issues which, a few minutes away, will be declared inadmissible because of the extraneous nature of the matter. I will try, therefore, to contain my speech on the points of this decree-law, leaving out most of the innovations that have been introduced, in my view, even inappropriately, in the course of the case. I must begin by giving an answer to Senator Pepe, who said in his speech that the opposition must clarify the ideas: it is not possible to say that it is strictly related to the issues of the decree-law and then to table such a large number of amendments. Senator Pepe, who has also followed, like us, the work of the Commission, must acknowledge - and on this I also call, if possible, to testify to the two Presidents of the Commission - that precisely at the express request of the Forza Italia Group, in the person of Senator Mallegni, the Presidents were asked to make a rigid and non-flexible assessment of the principles of the eligibility of amendments, starting with those of Forza Italia. We asked the Presidents to do a rigorous job, consistent with what was the initial text of the decree-law, even if amendments tabled by Forza Italia had fallen. This proves that we had very clear ideas. And we regret to note that, despite the President of the 8th The Commission, immediately after the hearings, stated that it would oppose this measure to become an omnibus, exactly the opposite occurred: this decree-law became an omnibus and became an expedient to circumvent the legal presuppositions in order to obtain the decree of urgency. There is a demand for urgent decree on improcrastinable subjects and then, during the law of conversion, everything and more is inserted in it, overcoming also the legitimate prerogatives of the parliamentarians, who have the right to discuss and deepen in the regulatory times the various proposals of law. This is for the sake of truth. We must acknowledge, even in the overall negative judgment on this decree-law, some ray of sunshine: little stuff, but rather than nothing, better rather, as one of my masters of life and profession said. We immediately accepted the request of the Government and the majority to expunge from the amendments all those who concerned the matter of the contracts, because it is right that there is an organic and structural intervention on the subject, with the times and methods of the parliamentary regulations, that they can innovate and renew the field. We must also say that, thanks to our intervention, amendments have been withdrawn concerning amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr President, a few days ago there was the inauguration of the judicial year and the Minister of Justice re-proposed his programme, saying that by 31 December 2019 he will be able to present the reform - blessed him - of the Code of Criminal Procedure and also that of the Code of Civil Procedure. If this is true, it was not clear why in this decree-law, moreover with an absolute alienity of matter, elements of amendment to the code of criminal procedure should be included. We welcome this: the majority, Mr Melius re perpensa, withdrew all these amendments. We were pleased with the intervention in favour of the third sector and here I would also like to give an answer to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, saying that this was the heritage of both the Commissions and all the parliamentary groups, so much so that, at the request of the Leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, the amendments were withdrawn and reworded by the rapporteurs with the signature of all the representatives of the Commissions. This result therefore concerns the whole of Parliament and cannot be attributed only to one part of it. Then there is another positive aspect, which highlights the unequal treatment that is sometimes implemented by the representatives of the majority. We had tabled an amendment, at my first signature, which called for access to the solidarity fund also for professionals in difficulty and not just for companies. They too are in serious difficulty as a result of the delay in payments by the public administration. This amendment has been rejected, unless it is revived in another amendment proposal by the rapporteurs: we note it, better late than never. We are pleased to have helped some 2,000 municipalities with the amendment signed by Mallegni, Vitali and Pagano, about IMU: 300 million euros will go to them, avoiding their failure. We are partly satisfied with some of the measures in the field of agriculture. What don't we like? The way in which this majority has dealt with the problem of annoying xylella: it is not enough to establish the eradication of infected olive trees and the criminal penalty for those who do not comply with the norm, if we do not help the Apulian olive growing sector by establishing an extraordinary fund to support our olive growers and by appointing an extraordinary commissioner who can supervise this initiative. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And where do we get the money? From the income of citizenship, which will never leave in this country: at least they will serve to guarantee an important sector of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and Apulia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We are absolutely not satisfied with the way you have dealt with the issue of drills, mocking yourselves because it is not true that you have established a moratorium: it is a fictitious moratorium. Without prejudice not only to the concessions in progress and those to expire, but also to all applications to be submitted within the time limit for the approval and promulgation of this law. The moratorium, therefore, is practically a fiction, only a device to heal the difficulties within this majority. You have used the Decree-Law instrument for a political retaliation against the opposition representatives, touching the board of ENAV with a measure that has nothing to do with air transport. You have accused us at other times of being authors of laws ad personam, but you have also made them: it is an example that establishes an increase of the staff to the Ministry of the Interior, with the introduction of a manager of the first band (no but that they write name and surname). You have disregarded instances that came from all the municipalities, not only from those led by representatives of Forza Italia, and the norms about the world of school. Last, but not least, it is the shame that has already been mentioned by my colleague Rauti and my colleague Richetti: it is not possible to change the rules in progress, disappointing the citizens who have carried out a competition and who, even if they have not passed it, have been declared suitable and, as such, have been placed in a ranking that must be last in a legitimate way and not according to a rule that applies with retroactive effect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I could continue, Mr President, but perhaps I have exhausted all the ten minutes I have available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u67	VITALI (FI-BP). I will then take another thirty seconds, please, to say that this measure, unfortunately, will follow the fate of all the others. The decree of dignity should have provided work: it is true that there has been an increase in employment for an indefinite period, but unemployment has increased, because entrepreneurs have been discouraged from hiring on a fixed-term basis. The law of stability has forgotten the Mezzogiorno: less investment, less tax credit, less over-mortization, less depreciation and rough sweeps is nothing more than a measure in favour of the corrupt. I must not mention what you were told at the inauguration of the judicial year, where there was no word in favour of this measure. Never, as in this case, has the whole judicial, jurisprudential world of law professionals and lawyers been unanimous in saying that this is and has been a filthy thing! And the rule is not enough to streamline prison procedures, because money is needed. From here in a few years, with all the exceptions you have created and with all the inaccessibility you have created towards alternative forms of detention, we will have 30,000-40,000 more prisoners, we will not know where to place them, and I think you have no idea how to deal with this problem. However, we are here, waiting for the Italian people - sovereign, as always - to decide and finally give a definitive judgment on this Government and this majority. Good luck. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Collina. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u68	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud of the decisions taken by the Government and the majority. Another important measure, which is still an incisive action for the weak, for work - I address to Senator Vitali - businesses, the environment, energy and also education. The Commissions have made a valuable contribution; I thank the senators and the legislative collaborators, not to mention the officials, who in a valuable way helped to improve the text in question, which simplifies relations between the citizen and the public administration. I am just making a few remarks on the relevant amendment phase. Ensuring support for credit companies with public administration struggling to return installments is certainly a fair, equitable and sensible measure, as well as allowing them to continue to live in foreclosed properties. Well the renewal of the repayment of the loan bridge: we talk about Alitalia; then one day the oppositions will explain the sense of that beautiful and guessed beat \'fasten the belts \', unforgettable I would say. (Translated with Google Translate) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For our agri-food finally comes the label with the compulsory indication of the place of origin. Good also the norm that facilitates the professionals not organized in colleges or orders. Well to cope with the contingent shortage of doctors, as well as the recruitment of school leaders, a necessary measure, which anticipates important measures in the world of education. However, I would like to focus more on two aspects: the plan for the sustainable energy transition of the appropriate areas (drills, to understand each other) and the measures to support the families of the 29 victims of Rigopiano. Both these measures are the result of battles of the Movimento, even private, carried out personally with the support and sharing of all colleagues of the Movimento and also of the majority. I have in mind the meeting with a group of people who saw their lives changed by the tragic event in Rigopiano, Farindola, Abruzzo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember their emotion and remember the weight of their words, which, as representative of the institutions, I felt very strong on my shoulders: "Senator, we were abandoned." Rigopiano is still an open pain, if it is true, as it is true, that there is an enquestment bis on the part of the prefect and six other exponents of the prefecture for misdirection and procedural fraud. Already in the budget law, as well as in the tax decree, we tried to include measures in support of those families. Today we finally succeed, thanks to the sensitivity and concreteness of the Government of change, which intended to intervene with an appropriation of 10 million euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today I feel I can give an answer to those people I met: you are not alone, we are at your side, we have done our duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pietro Pisani]] I'm going to the drills. In recent days we have been accused of many things; for some we would almost become "Yes Triv": madness. I repeat with a loud voice, Senator Vitali, listen to me: we are and will stand against the drills. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those who speak to you are the first signatories of a bill with rules for the prohibition of the use of air gun: we will soon fight for the use of air gun to become an illegal practice. The stones also know that we govern having signed a contract with the League: this means, among other things, that we need political mediation and parliamentary compromise. The amendment adopted provides for the adoption of the Plan of Areas: we give ourselves a reasonable time (18 months), accompanied by a special moratorium until the adoption of the Plan itself, a moratorium which refers to the suspension of administrative procedures relating to the granting of new permits for exploration, research or cultivation of hydrocarbons and the putting in place of temporal suspension for the permits of prospecting and research in place, including - I want to clarify - those of the Ionian Sea. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then I want to give another great, huge news to the Italians: we have increased - and it was now - the annual fees by as many as 25 times: the only revenue, to the current situation, would go from about 1.330,000 euros to as many as 33 million euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella]] Could you generate claims for compensation? Of course, but we are also ready for this: we already have sufficient resources and, in any case, the possibility of remodelling the canons. I therefore give citizens a certainty: they will certainly not pay them. The amendment blocks 38 existing permits and 85 pending requests. I quote the opinion of a great battaller, Professor Maria Rita D'Orsogna who, referring also to other political forces, but above all to the Democratic Party, writes on her blog that "The PD has approved every drill that he has encountered along his way, and is monumental" - these are words of Professor D'Orsogna - "that we are now here instead." [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella]] In our beloved Abruzzo - the professor remembers it but only to give an example - the suspension concerns at least 28 situations. It doesn't seem to me to be a small decision, nor does it seem to me to be Triva, I would say anything else. Without a doubt this is yet another huge result of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I conclude by expressing once again the satisfaction with the measures contained in this decree-law and also because we are proceeding with a high head. The majority are working incessantly and decisively on a path long imagined going in the direction signed in the contract. A few months ago all this seemed impossible; instead we are brilliantly changing the history of the country. Days ago, and I conclude, Mr President, I said in this very Chamber that we were doing great. Today I confirm and urge all my colleagues in the majority to move forward with determination and determination towards the inevitable and longing for change. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u70	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u71	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy (The Senators of the M5S Groups and [[L-SP-PSd'Az stand up. Applause.]] I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.49 p.m. and resumed at 3.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u72	I call the rapporteur, Senator Coltorti.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in the general debate for the comments we have received. I listened carefully to the debate and found it as stimulating as the one that took place in the Commissions meeting. Certainly the decree-law in our examination is complex - we cannot deny it - and as some have said it is because we have introduced an important number of amendments, many of which have been tabled by oppositions. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u74	Excuse me, Senator Coltori. I believe that the reply is of interest to everyone, even to the continuation of our work. I invite you to contain the tones of your conversations, which are always at very high levels.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u75	Mr Coltorti, rapporteur. Thank you, President. Personally, it is my first decree-law and I will certainly remember that, partly because 970 amendments have been tabled. The work has therefore been very complex and articulated: on the one hand, with respect to the rules contained in the decree-law, a limited number of issues are required; on the other, the whole Parliament wants to contribute to the improvement of the country and therefore each Member, both by majority and opposition, would like to include in the measure amendments that, in the opinion of individuals, contribute to improving the conditions of the country. If there is so much to improve, there are so many amendments: I do not think there are any major comments to make on this. I also heard negative opinions about the decree-law and some say that it simplifies nothing. I invite those who say this to read the measure carefully, because there are so many amendments, even those that have been passed to the filter of the Commissions, which make considerable improvements: the first and most important is that a guarantee fund is set up for small and medium-sized enterprises that have consolidated debts to the State. Rules are introduced so that those who fail are assisted by the State. If this is not a simplification that improves the lives of citizens, tell me what needs to be done. In my opinion, therefore, Article 1 addresses issues of fundamental importance to the country. What do we mean by Alitalia? Isn't that a big deal? Alitalia has more than 11,000 employees and if the extension proposed in the text is not approved, it fails. Alitalia has a history that, as a majority, we have not checked. All the world's airlines have been active in the last five or six years of 5, 6, 8 percent, while our flagship company has substantial debts and has been on the brink of bankruptcy. Has this failure been handled wisely? The situation is what it is, while all the companies have had profits on the flight, ours does not make them. It means it's been mismanaged. If we want to be next to the flag carrier, and we know that air transport is a key point in the country, if we want Italian tourism and air transport not to be managed by foreign companies, Lufthansa or Air France, we must recover this company, give it oxygen and think about the people who work there and that, if Alitalia fails, they would be on the brink. I think this is extremely important. Article 3 addresses a number of issues, such as the suppression of Sistri, which has never been activated and has never taken off. Perhaps colleagues do not know that an amendment has been proposed for the computer recording of the same data in a Ministry. The Sistri is suppressed because so far it has not worked. Then there is an intervention that concerns the fisheries programme, which is a very important resource of the country. Many people live on fishing: strengthening, even a little, this sector is a simplification and a help to the country. Article 3 also deals with the feasibility of the structures in which the performing arts workers operate. Where there are no conditions, these people should not work, depending on the non-adjustability of the facilities. We know that accidents at work are one of the most important issues in this country, so let us address this issue by trying to prevent them from happening. On the regulation of the non-payment of social security contributions (DURC), we have extended the deadline. People in difficulty in regularizing these positions and seeing the company fail, perhaps, if they can have longer times, do not fail. It is a simplification for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have tried to simplify the concession of simplified logistics zones (ZLS) to small and medium-sized enterprises, while maintaining rigid clauses; in fact, at present, if a company wants to undertake its activity in a ZLS, it encounters a series of bureaucratic and administrative contrasts really complex. Let's go meet them. We want to say that the labelling of agricultural products is not a simplification, is it not a help for this country? We all know that Made in Italy is one of the most important things for Italy, for our budget and for the funds that come to this country; we know that we are known all over the world for Made in Italy and finally we put labels easily legible, that allow us to track products and know if what we eat is produced in China, Uzbekistan or who knows where and which can be composed of genetically modified organisms. Isn't that important? The measure then brings rules for the foreclosure of the real estate, meeting the needs of the people who see themselves removing the house because they have debts, perhaps with the State, and when the foreclosure arrives they are forced to leave the house, even if for two or three years it is not sold. So let us introduce rules so that these people can continue to live in that house until it is sold. In my opinion these are certainly simplifications. We all know that what happened in Rigopiano is a tragedy. Often the heirs of the people who died have no money to form a civil part and advance their claims. Are the measures for Rigopiano not important? I'd like to see someone say no. The measure then brings rules to cope with prison overcrowding. We know that prisons are overcrowded, we have put forward proposals to build new ones, but we need rules and activities in this direction. We are also aware of the importance of reducing the costs of the National Health Service, because many regions are staggering under the immense expenditures made in this area. It doesn't have to say how health care has been treated in this country: in the regions the first aid centres have been closed, many hospitals have been closed. Article 10 lays down rules on driver rentals (NCCs). We have been dealing with legislation that has been blocked for years; we have made choices, certainly many NCCs will not be happy, but we know that there were irregularities for some Provinces and for some Metropolitan Cities and Rome is one of them. Certainly at national level with these rules we will not meet all the specific needs, but we had to make choices and we have done so. Article 11 contains provisions on a competition for recruitment in the military area. It is also difficult for me not to be able to admit young people who previously had the qualifications, but I remember, in particular the opposition before me, that this is a law introduced by the Democratic Party. Of course, we may not now comply with this law, but it seems difficult not to follow a state law. On the drills, I believe that a large part of this Parliament agrees. We have done a work of art by accepting the needs of the 5 Star Movement, the environmental forces of this country, who were tired of seeing everything bet on the fossil and, as we have also shown with regard to electricity, we are moving towards renewables, decisively. Someone's accusing us of blocking the power program. First of all, we redefine it and give ourselves time to verify. Colleagues, I don't know if you've seen what happened with electric cars: from the moment we passed regulations in favour of the industry, car manufacturers began to focus on electric. So let's focus on renewables and make important choices for this country. Epochal climate change is taking place all over the world and needs to achieve greater use of renewable energy. The Government of Change is therefore moving towards this direction, towards a cleaner world, which sees fewer deaths from pollution. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group]] One of the amendments concerns hydroelectric derivations, which are regulated, in case, as a result of age, they are no longer used and are therefore put at the head of the regions: it seems to me a very fair forecast. We spoke about the ineligibility of lawyers, which was a long-lost issue. We then introduced a number of important simplifications from the accounting point of view. If you want, I'll make the whole list of simplifications... [[Ironic comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u76	My colleagues will address the Presidency, as well as the rapporteur, whose time is about to end.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u77	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr Coltorti, rapporteur. Finally, we spoke on the issues of disability, which I believe are very important for people with disabilities living in the country. I therefore think that what we are considering is an important measure, which, although reduced by some amendments that would have enriched it, makes an important contribution to legislation and to the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u78	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pirovano.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u79	Mr President, Senator Coltorti has made a very exhaustive list, taking up the issues contained in the decree-law and also the additions and amendments approved by the Commissions and has been able to respond to a large part of the comments and criticisms made by the oppositions; I imagine that then also the majority colleagues and, in particular, the first signatories, when it comes to the examination of the amendments, will have something to say about the criticisms of the amendments adopted. I believe that this process and this long adventure, which we have all faced together in the Commissions together, are a clear example of the difficulties that citizens can have in understanding what can be done immediately and what cannot be done immediately. Like Mr Coltorti, I am for the first time in the role of rapporteur for a measure, which is also so important, and so I have understood the mechanisms and we have learned a great deal, in an assiduous work, thanks also to the cooperation of our colleagues. At some point, however, we must stop and try to understand, as we have done in the Commissions, not what is good and what is not, but what can be saved and what can not be saved. There are so many provisions within this decree that are good and that were, among other things, shared by the majority and also by the oppositions and that obviously we could not complete. There are many others, also considered urgent - and therefore we return to the sense of the urgent decree - that we have managed to insert. Others, however, considered urgent by almost all the commissioners, will probably not arrive at the end of the history of this decree-law. That is the difference that citizens may not be able to grasp. Rightly, after so many years of waiting for solutions, they would like them immediately, in the first useful measure. Fortunately we, as I hope, will have time to proceed with other simplifications and other measures absolutely necessary for this country. We tried. When I said this morning that we were accused of working too hard, I said it ironically but the concept was real, in the sense that we tried, but also the oppositions, to insert so many arguments and to solve at once so many problems that people expect to be solved as soon as possible. I never expected to do such a job, but I realized that, in addition to the work in the Commissions, it was also very important and constructive that done with the majority of the Government. In the joint committees we were accused, on some politically very important issues, of being forced with one another to shut our noses to vote on their respective amendments and, as I said in that place and I repeat again here, never anyone here has closed their noses and will never do so, because we work together and we debate until we arrive at a shared result. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is very important, because during the work on this decree-law so many issues have been touched on that give us work, for the next few months, along with other issues that we have already begun to carry on. We are lucky that all the work done in the Commissions combined with the majority, but also with opposition, will not be lost, even what will not come to the end of the examination of the measure. There will be many other issues to confront. However, we have unraveled so many issues that I think we have also better known each other, also, because we have worked with members of other Commissions and we have understood what the sensibilities of each one are and we have come to a result. I cannot, therefore, but be proud of the group that has been created and of the work that has been done. At the end of this day, if we can vote today, we will understand what immediate result we can bring home and what will be a delayed result. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u80	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u81	Mr President, I give up my speech. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u82	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u83	Mr President, I rise after hearing for a few hours, since this morning, the speeches of the majority and opposition senators, to reiterate some of the significant passages of the measure under discussion. I too have been involved in the work of the Commissions these days - it would be better to say in these weeks - and I must say that I fully agree with what the rapporteurs and also the minority rapporteur have said about the work they have done on these long, sometimes very long days. The measure under discussion was certainly not very simple, like all the measures deriving from decrees that normally, in fact, respond to emergencies and that then, in the course of the months, during their definitive application, inevitably have to face new situations that have come to be created and therefore with the need perhaps to review, improving them, some of the things that had been planned and possibly predicting others. As for the work in the Commissions meeting, in thanking both its members and its officials, I would also like to make a contribution, reaffirming what has already been said by everyone: they have been absolutely profitable, in the sense that the participation of the members of the Commissions has been effective and has entered into the substance of the arguments that have been dealt with as soon as possible. If it is correct for everyone to do their own work in a Parliamentary Assembly, there has obviously been an adequate defence of their views by the majority, but also the opposition - for which they are necessarily different, even if there has been some convergence - has always aimed to participate in the work in order to contribute positively. This notation must be absolutely noted, because it is for the benefit of this branch of Parliament. In order to get into the matter, I will necessarily have to repeat some of the things that have been said, to unscrew them better or at least emphasize them. This measure, having to deal with matters that were urgent when it was launched - and still are - provides quite different arguments between them, of course it is in such a measure. Also the aspects discussed, which were then added to the original text or which will be added at the end of the examination of the measure, are based on arguments that in these months have in turn become necessary for the interest of the country. I will stress only the most significant points, even if each of the 11 articles of the measure is of particular importance, starting with those that say little to the general public, but that, for those who work every day in an operational way - just think of the manufacturing companies - are certainly an important issue, that of Sistri. As has been pointed out by all, there is a fundamental question, namely that it basically did not work: just the fact that, after so many years since it was introduced, it has never worked - and I use the term "introduced" because practically zero companies have been able to adopt it completely - absolutely required something to be done to fix the situation. In fact, I remember that the mechanism itself has not given - and is not giving - any significant operational result, while on the part of the companies remain the commitment to adapt to it, bearing a series of bureaucratic passages totally useless in this situation. Add a marginal fact in the entity, but not very marginal: there is also a sort of annual tax to be paid only for the fact that this system exists. The Sistri was perhaps born at a time when there was an exaggerated confidence in technological development, thinking of being able to transform the whole world into a kind of super Matrix exclusively digital. In fact, there are some trivial passages that must be emphasized, however, because the whole system works if they are carried out in order to be strictly physical and correct: it is enough that the first signal on the first envelope is done incorrectly so that everything that comes next happens in an equally incorrect way. As we all know, computers are stupid fast, so if the first input is wrong, with a lot of speed, they continue to process wrong subsequent data. I believe that a serious country, with all the problems it has, should not rely on imaginative, third and often unlikely things to solve any problem; it would be enough to apply with more seriousness and participation, on the part of all the actors of the society, a correct behavior in all the steps of the business type. Italy is probably not all the same, but I see that, where I live and where I have always worked, the companies usually proceed correctly to the compilation of all the prescribed registers, the collecting and disposal companies receive checks periodically and there is someone who controls where it goes physically to end what is collected. So the legal cycle of waste disposal, if you want, you can keep it quietly under control even without the Sistri. I believe that the very serious things that have happened, and that probably still happen in the country with regard to the incorrect management of waste, are not to be blamed on margins that with a digital system we could go to check; I simply believe that there are macroscopic passages that many pretend not to see, otherwise some things that happen should not happen at all. As far as the public procurement issue is concerned, the importance of moving towards a revision leading to a simplification of the whole procurement code has also been stressed here, not because we want to eliminate controls or to make the system more permeable to illegal activities, but because we must not, as is often the case, go from an excess to its opposite. You can't think of caging any kind of public work, even of small size, with rules that are not only extremely complicated to apply and extend very much the time necessary to carry out public works, but that often in the last three years have so frightened public officials that, in doubt, in most cases, you prefer to wait and do nothing to be absolutely sure of any passage. The result is that to make a simple sidewalk or 50 meters of sewer it takes no longer a few months (as was obvious and logical until a few years ago) but even a few years. At a time when the country needs some real economy, I believe that the public works already financed, with available economic resources, must be done as quickly and as regularly as possible; I believe that this is one of the objectives that we must all achieve together. In this sense this majority and this Government, in the financial maneuver just ended, have unlocked however a quantity of resources that, although absolutely not epochal, are absolutely important. They have already produced, in the last months of the year just past and in the early of this year, a significant increase in so-called small public works, those that can be done quickly and by the normal local medium-small companies (the normal size of our companies that also work in procurement and public works), actually making a significant contribution, but above all immediate, to the maintenance of the country's GDP, which we know is one of the problems that we all have to face together. So the simplifications that have been put in place are absolutely essential in order to quickly give rise to the public works that we have in mind to unlock. In linking myself to some of the interventions that have been carried out, I must say that I feel that I belong to a normal country, where the normality is that of people who do well, honestly and correctly their work (if they work in companies) or their public activity (if they are transiently local administrators). Therefore it is not correct to treat any intervention only on the marginal part of those who are out of the rules, putting in difficulty the vast majority of those who instead live quietly, not because the law imposes it on them, but because it is so as a person (together with most people) and carries out with tranquility, serenity and intellectual honesty their profession. Then everyone can think of others what they think of themselves; but I believe that most of us present here are convinced that Italy is made by serious, honest and correct people. With regard to the discourse of companies in crisis, I believe that important interventions have also been made from this point of view. In recent years we have seen two equally serious phenomena. One - which I must say more than serious is truly incredible - is that of companies that have run the risk of failing in their business, or have even been forced to close, not because of their own administrative incapacity or lack of work and ability to make their work return, but simply because they believe in the State. In particular, in the face of a State which, on the one hand, requires any kind of slope with ferocious deadlines and, on the other hand, is unable to meet its commitments, I believe that one of the things the Government absolutely had to do was intervene urgently in this situation and in some way it has done so. Of course we are only at the beginning because the issue is extremely complex and articulated: there are situations that really need to be reviewed in an integral way, but this is also a sign in the right direction, that is, on the one hand, to unblock the state's delays as quickly as possible and, on the other hand, not to vex companies that have difficulties because of the State and that risk closing down precisely for this reason. I therefore believe that, beyond the technicality with which the situation in this measure has been dealt with, we can all agree absolutely. Then there is the age-old issue of Alitalia. I made the first step in the parliamentary classrooms, in the so-called Lower House - as you call it - a few years ago and I must say that the same things were said about Alitalia today, even if in the meantime some lustre has passed. The problem of Alitalia we all know and it has been addressed by the previous Governments, to which I do not blame anything, in the sense that however it is not absolutely easy to implement the actions necessary to face the periodic corporate crises of this society. However, there was a situation that had to be dealt with in some way: the choice of the bridge loan has been made which, if not properly managed, risks removing any suitor from our flag company. It is therefore a question of intervening so as to give the possibility to the future industrial partner who will enter the Alitalia match - which I hope is of adequate size and management capacity - not to start immediately with this financial "mattone," which would obviously discourage even those who were animated by the best intentions. I therefore believe that this is also a sort of due act, in parallel with the work that the Minister and the Ministry are doing in this direction and that I hope, within a reasonably short time, will lead us to see the definitive solution of this long-standing affair. Then there is the whole issue linked to companies that simply have difficulty in being behind the pressure of tax pressure or because - as I described a few minutes ago - of hopeless claims to the Italian State, or even for different situations. I am referring to absolutely well-managed companies that have no problems of any kind (there have been no mishaps or anything else) but that have transitional financial difficulties: some, I repeat, for issues related to the state, many others - I remember that we are at the beginning of 2019, but 2007 and 2008 have still left deep and painful signs in the Italian industrial system - because they are still dragging and are struggling to get out of the crises of the past years. (15.49) (Following GALLI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development). For this reason, however, they must not be condemned to closure, not only for purely business matters, but also for issues related to the country. In fact, rather than losing a company because it has gone through a complicated financial period with difficulty - actually throughout the economic world - even if it is coming with difficulty at the end of the crossing, giving it the blow of grace and closing it, instead we have to stretch the arm, trying to make it complete the crossing and make it start a new life. Then there are the last two important topics that have been dealt with in some way by all, those relating to Article 11-a, on the discipline of hydroelectric concessions, and the "trivelle question" as it is journalistically defined. I believe that these aspects have already been extensively illustrated by those who have preceded me. I just want to add some consideration: the majority of hydroelectric power plants, so those really having zero impact by definition, now have on their shoulders an age that is beginning to be significant, so it is time for the renewal of contracts and concessions and the transition of their management to the nearest bodies - the Regions - that I think is the most reasonable. As far as the drill issue is concerned, I think it is clear to everyone that the political movement to which I honour to belong has ideas on the economic issues quite precise that it has never hidden and has always carried on. This does not mean that anything else must be sacrificed on the altar of economics, money and momentary development. The beautiful country in which we all live, in fact, is a country we obviously love particularly and therefore we must devote some attention to any situation in which there is the risk of causing important damage to our territory. I think it is a concept to be shared, so I think that the idea of taking a moment of reflection - which has not been properly done in recent decades - to better assess a future plan to determine where and where a certain type of work cannot be done is absolutely important. Some corrections have been made after proper discussion and discussion and I believe that they have led to a balanced text. I would like to add a comment on the concession speech. I don't think trivially - and I say two numbers that should make you think alone - that a country can give in concession more or less 30,000 square kilometers, that is once and a half the Lombardy, and take home less than two million euros. I think there is something wrong and that every other speech simply comments on itself. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I only ask for a minute to enter into the political merit of an issue that, of course (but it's right because everyone does their job) has filled the newspapers and made the headlines in recent weeks: it's obvious that League and 5 Stars have different starting points also in the economic field, but this, as someone said, is like discovering hot water. It is clear that this is the case, but precisely for this reason, when we manage to reach a conclusion, we do not reach a compromise but, after proper reflection, to a balanced solution that normally takes into account the needs of all and probably takes into account the average of the country's thinking. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u84	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Classical High School "Quinto Orazio Flacco" of Potenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has carefully assessed the amendments, taking into account the criteria laid down in Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and the constitutional case law on urgent decisions. The decree-law under consideration consists of 12 articles (business rules, return of Alitalia funding, changes to the procurement code, prison building, computerization, education and research, economic treatment of public administration personnel). It therefore has a multiple content, according to the applicant definition in the case law of the Court for similar measures. It therefore responds to the aim of introducing, as specified in the title and the premises, urgent provisions on support and simplification for enterprises and public administration, in order to overcome the clichés found in the social reality and to give further impetus to the modernisation of public action. In the presence of a measure from the so-called pluriannual object, the Presidency, as indicated by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court (recently, for example, in judgment n. 32 of 2014) examined the propriety of the amendments assessing their connection with the dominant ratio of the decree-law. Amendments introducing support, simplification, modernisation measures for economic actors, for public administration in general and for public action, as well as amending proposals on simplification arrangements for the exercise or protection of subjective legal positions, have therefore been considered acceptable, since they show the necessary consistency with the content and purpose of the emergency measure. First of all, it is impossible to propose amendments which provide for the conferral of legislative powers. Moreover, proposals for amendments with provisions that do not result in simplification or support measures, or that are not attributable to one of the contents already governed by the decree-law or to its overall ratio, were considered to be outside the scope of the decree-law. In the first place, the amendments adopted by the Commissions were accepted for the vote of the Assembly: 1.34, 1.44, 1.0,500, 21000, 3.47, 3.500, 3.0.8, 3.0.81, 3.0.136, 3.0.700, 4.3, 4.0.1000, 8.500, 8.0.3, 8.0.500, 9.0.41, 9.0.500, 10.0.1000, 11.0.43, 11.0.95, 11.0.172, 11.0.500, 11.0.600, 11.0.1000. The other amendments approved by the Commissions are, on the other hand, impossible to propose pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, in accordance with the criteria set out above. The sub-amendments to these amendments adopted by the Commissions are also unacceptable: 3,500/700 and 3,500/701; 11.0.43/406, 11.0.43/407, 11.0.43/408 and 11.0.43/409; 11.0.1000/500. With regard to the sub-amendments to amendment 11.0.500, only amendments 11.0.500/8 and 11.0.500/9; all the other sub-amendments to this amendment are unacceptable. The Presidency's further pronunciation of the proposed amendments tabled by the Groups, net of the numerous withdrawals, will be made during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u88	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business in order to make a request - following these determinations - that the work on the amendments be resumed tomorrow morning, so that all the groups are allowed to examine in detail their determinations and have a complete and orderly dossier available, as has already been requested several times. In fact, I say this by introducing an appreciation from the Democratic Party Group of the sensitivity that you have shown by determining these first inproposities and not without making some considerations. In these few months we are really witnessing the packaging of an almanac of forcings and unconstitutionality - to which today the practice of the self-obstructionism of the majority has also been added - which make this also an unbelievable page for our works. In recent sessions we have repeatedly stressed how far this provision was going from the characteristics and requirements that a decree-law must have. As already mentioned several times by the Constitutional Court in 2007 and 2008, the issue of homogeneity is decisive in determining whether a decree-law is constitutional or not, because it is linked to its homogeneity the motivation for which the decree itself is formulated by the Government, that is, the presence of extraordinary and urgent conditions. In this case it was clear that all this heterogeneity totally modified the operational scope of this measure, causing it to lose the characteristics of extraordinary necessity and urgency. Perhaps we should also say thanks to the appeal that the Democratic Party has made by raising before the Constitutional Court the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State. We must also say thanks to the fact that, with your determination, Mr President, we have finally come to grips with an issue which we had pointed out through President Marcucci on more than one occasion at the Conference of the Leaders. It is not possible that with respect to a decree-law there is a similar discrepancy between the way in which the Presidents of the competent Commissions grant the admissibility of certain matters and the determination of the Senate Presidency. I would also like it to be clear that for two weeks we have been talking, to "open standards," about the lives of citizens, businesses, the whole sectors to which companies listed on the stock exchange refer, all even waiting for the President, at some point, wisely, to expunge those arguments. This is not the way to take responsibility for ruling this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You must stop, not only humiliating this Parliament, but above all playing with rules that clearly affect the lives of citizens and businesses. In conclusion, I would like to ask the President, once again appreciating his speech, the postponement of the debate to tomorrow morning, when we will be fully aware of the work that we will have to face in examining the amendments and also because of the need of the Democratic Party to be able to hold, during this afternoon, a meeting of the Group to allow us to review a measure other than that which was incardinated this morning with the general debate. I ask the 5 Stars and the League, then the government forces and the government, to go and review the teaching of Tocqueville, where it spoke of tyranny of the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The only alternative is that you admit that you are not able to rule this country! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u91	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we also ask that we have sufficient time to review this. We certainly appreciate the work you have done, but I also believe that we need a number of reflections, including for the future. It is clear that there is a very serious question about the future in the meantime, so we need to see how we can align, or at least not separate, two different moments: the examination of eligibility by the Presidents of the Commission and the subsequent one by the President of the Senate. Otherwise, as you can see, the result is what we have before us: we have been two weeks - perhaps even more so - to discuss, to be passionate, to make the communications, to give messages to the outside world, but today we are faced with the fact that many of these amendments, even those adopted, have been declared inadmissible. I said this today, speaking on the preliminary question of constitutionality: we hope that, even today, a new practice will finally be inaugurated, very aligned with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, with the constitutional spirit and therefore, especially with regard to decree-laws, to return to having a real possibility at least of homogeneity. It is clear that this also concerns the way in which we have worked. In fact, Mr President, you know that the oppositions within the Commission have called for rationality, trying to persuade at least the amendments which are clearly outside the context of the decree-law, but certainly have not had a obstructive intention, but only to get a lot on the subject. This way of working in the end has, however, created a very difficult situation, because - I repeat - rules have been adopted, discussions have been held and measures have been introduced in favour of citizens, companies or anyone interested who had to be declared inadmissible from the outset, from the outset, from the outset. That is why we should probably speak again about the Rules of Procedure, because you know, Mr President, that the Presidents of the Commission are always demanding their autonomy - and this is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure - with regard to declarations of eligibility, but then we are in this situation. In the end, we were in the Commissions meeting, with sessions postponed from time to time, from time to time and always so patiently, to discuss, even passionately, issues that were not to be discussed, because they were not to be admitted to the debate in the form of an amendment. The pronunciation you have made and the call for rigour should lead all of us and the majority to change their working style, because that is not the way to proceed. This is the problem: here we make one to one between the two contenders of the majority; if one puts one, the other must put the other; we must always go to a sort of balancing of the interests, not of the general interest, but of the interests of the two contractors the contract. That is the reason, among other things, for the overdimension of the amendments. It is clear that, at a time when the majority and rapporteurs are tabling amendments, the opposition is submitting its sub-amendments. Therefore, to reply to the rapporteur who today said that we too have tabled amendments, the opposite would have been inconceivable. We will finally have to change the way we proceed, partly because perhaps it is also time to amend this part of the Rules of Procedure. The question is all political: you are hooked to the decree-law that passes, that already at the origin is very varied, and you stick everything that each of the contenders or contractors (depends on the days) must bring home. This way of proceeding is leading us to waste not only so much time, Mr President, but also credibility in the work of the whole Parliament. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u94	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we would like to thank you for your speech which brings back the debate on the measure in the channels of the rules laid down, including the important rules and the decisions of the Constitutional Court that you have read to us before referring to the list of admissible amendments. We stress that, unfortunately, in these two weeks, the great work done in the Commissions, as we have repeatedly pointed out, has been largely in vain because it has dealt mainly with amendments for which today we have an official sanction of inadmissibility by the President. All our members of the Commission have constantly stressed this point, noting the extraneousness of many of the amendments in relation to what was being discussed. It has been said repeatedly, but on this there has been a stiffening on the part of the Government and the majority, who have insisted on moving forward in this way. So we had weeks of work that were largely useless, that could have been arranged much better: we could probably have avoided the delays of last week and a number of things that make the work of the Senate more difficult - therefore less effective -. In the light of all this and of the fact that you have announced that the admissibility or inadmissibility of the other amendments, apart from those adopted by the Commissions, will be made known in the next few hours, we agree with Senator Ferrari's request, which we consider reasonable to resume tomorrow's examination of the amendments, when we can have a full picture of the admissibility. Of course, there are not only the amendments adopted by the Commissions, but there are many others (let us imagine): it is clear that the criteria you have mentioned, applied to all the amendments, will give rise to many declarations of inadmissibility. In the meantime, we will have a clear picture of the situation: we will be able to examine the proposals that really can go forward (and assess the consequences of the fact that some of the amendments that were adopted and sometimes considered by us to be positive, that is, with our vote in favour, sometimes not), are no longer so. We must therefore have time to review the situation. In any case, we call for a suspension, at the end of this stage of the debate, in order to organize a group meeting - which I imagine other groups also feel the need to do - in order to assess, with a much clearer picture, even if the declarations of inadmissibility of other amendments are still missing, the whole of the rules that we will have to vote, with the utmost seriousness, in the interest of the country, for the proper resumption of the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u97	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, we believe that there must always be, first of all, the necessary respect for the work of every single Member of Parliament, of every single senator in this House, who very often turns into tabling amendments. We cannot, therefore, openly criticize the tabling of amendments to a text which is being examined by this House, because it is a constitutionally guaranteed right; as much as it is right and it is necessary to accept, whatever it may be, the Presidency's pronunciation with regard to inproposness and inadmissibility. There are senators who table amendments that are declared inadmissible, just as there are political parties that appeal to the Constitutional Court who are declared inadmissible, exactly as a success for the Democratic Party's appeal, which has certainly raised an issue that I do not think has been accepted by the Court. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Having said that, I also hear the proposals put forward by the opposition forces, I think it is right to give the Groups time to analyse the inadmissibility. We propose, however, that the sitting be suspended in order to give time to the Presidency to communicate the subsequent inadmissibles, even until 7 p.m., if this is okay. After that, I propose to the House that we continue this evening exclusively with the illustration of the body of amendments on all the articles (if there is a unanimous agreement I think we can do that) and start again tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. only with the votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u100	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, after your call, in the light of the many amendments which have been declared inadmissible or inadmissible, it seemed right and proper to thank, however, for all the work that has been done, the two Commissions and the 5th Commission, which have been committed to this measure for three weeks. In order not to waste all the work done, I hope there will be an opportunity to act with a bill of parliamentary initiative, which takes into account the many problems and the desire to proceed with simplifications. We agree with Mr Patuanelli's proposal because obviously we also need the time to evaluate all the amendments. Pending also to understand which amendments, among those tabled and not adopted in the Commissions, will be impossible and which we will be able to move forward, I think that a minimum of reflection in the majority on how to conduct future work perhaps from this point of view would not hurt us [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u103	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, other proposals have been made by our colleagues in the majority. First of all I join the thanks of the Forza Italia Group to those who have been addressed to you, as did Senator Malan who preceded me. Of course, in addition to thanking you, I would also like to thank all the opposition commissioners who have maintained their positions in the Commissions and the Budget Committee for twenty days and who have made it possible for the absolutely unconstitutional content of the decree-law to be stopped and not to become law. This is very important to us and it is equally important that what remains of the decree-law, which we will examine together with our Parliamentary Group Forza Italia, be fully discussed. We only know in part what has been left of the reading that you have given us impossibilities, but I would be grateful if you could have the opportunity, not only to explain the amendments today and the explanations of vote and the final vote tomorrow, but to be able to manage our time on this measure - which we have already agreed, however - today and tomorrow. Therefore, as proposed by the majority, we should not confine ourselves to explanations of vote and to the final vote tomorrow, but rather to discussing what has remained of this measure in relation to the work done so far. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u104	If there is no one else who wants to intervene, I would say what my thoughts are. I believe that I will suspend the sitting until 6 p.m., so that you can check the amendments that have been accepted, and at that time I will make you aware of the feasibility of the other amendments, so that you can have an overall picture. At 6 p.m. we shall decide on the continuation of the sitting of the Assembly. I therefore suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.19 p.m. and resumed at 6.21 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the further list of amendments which have not been adopted by the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a and which have been declared inadmissible is being distributed. Given the large number of these amendments, I will not read them for reasons of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u107	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, we would like to make a proposal to the House, and therefore to the members of the various groups, in relation to the progress of the work, to arrive tomorrow at the vote on the measure before us. The Movimento 5 Star Group intends to give up the explanation of its amendments and then move beyond this stage, if the other Groups agree, to start tomorrow explanations of vote and vote on the individual amendments, given to complete the illustration phase.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u110	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party accepts Senator Patuanelli's proposal, if all the Group leaders agree, simply because our Group still has one hour and six minutes, so much so that it intends to give explanations of vote on the substance of the individual amendments that are most important to it. We therefore welcome the proposal that is a way not to reduce the debate, but to devote all the time available to the individual subjects on which we will be called to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u113	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we too welcome Mr Patuanelli's invitation to postpone the analysis of the amendments until tomorrow. We too will use our remaining time to illustrate those who have survived the presidency's trap. However, I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to make a request for an explanation of the communication you made to the House about two hours ago when, among the amendments considered admissible, you also included the one numbered 11.0.1000 on which, together with my colleague Mr Iannone, I tabled a sub-amendment which is inexplicably considered inadmissible. I therefore ask you and the Offices to verify the reasons for such an inadmissibility, since this amendment is perfectly consistent with the text to be amended: both relate to amendments to Law No 113 of 2017, they intervene on two different articles, but the subject is exactly the same. We therefore find it incomprehensible the reason for excluding the sub-amendment - I repeat - tabled by myself and my colleague Mr Iannone, who is the number 11.01000/500. I ask you for the courtesy of checking this out.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u116	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we, too, agree with the proposal to table amendments because, given the wide variety of amendments, we have decided to concentrate tomorrow on those that are most important to us. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Mr President, to reconsider a number of sub-amendments which have been declared inadmissible. I am referring to Amendments Nos 11.0.43/406, 11.0.43/407, 11.0.43/408 and 11.0.43/409 because, as far as we are concerned, they seem very connected to us. We are talking about the exemption, Article 38 of the so-called Italy release, the repeal of paragraphs 5 and 6 of that article, which are a matter closely linked to the amendment that you have made acceptable - among other things approved by the Commissions - concerning drills. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u119	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also accepts the proposal made by President Patuanelli. We therefore call for a further effort from the rapporteurs - so much they have already worked in recent weeks, together with all the members of the two committees - to pay particular attention to the substance of the amendments, since they will go directly to the explanations of vote, and first they will give their opinions. I ask that because the right inadmissibility declared reduces the scope of the measure by a great deal, and we have particular interest that the decree-law be examined as thoroughly and fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u120	With regard to the comments made by Senators Ciriani and De Petris on the admissibility of certain sub-amendments, I must say that I have thought about them for a long time, one by one, in a very meticulous way and, therefore, I do not need to add further reflections on their eligibility. I therefore confirm what I have just said, both of which I consider inadmissible, and I refer to the amendments proposed by Senator De Petris and the assessment made by Senator Ciriani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u121	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute, including Atri and Atri, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u122	Colleagues, I would like to say to you that there is a defect in the list that has just been distributed: Amendment 11:17 was inserted because of a material error in transcription and, therefore, should be deleted from it. After all the considerations concerning the continuation of the proceedings, I refer the continuation of the examination of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u123	The Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement on the situation in Venezuela will take place on Wednesday 30 January at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u126	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to communicate the situation of serious emergency in which the health companies of the Tuscany Region (the three university hospital companies and the three large territorial ASLs) are located, with regard to the management aspect, the provision of services to citizens, but above all the operation and transparency of the various levels of management. 6:31 p.m. (Marin followed). The news of the last controversial affair of the investigation of the Public Prosecutor and the Finance Guard of Florence on competitions rigged for personal favoritism in the recruitment of doctors in the roles of primary of some departments of the Florentine hospital of Careggi; as well as the news of another judicial scandal that involved the hospital of Prato, for which the investigation of the Public Prosecutor of Prato concentrated on a consolidated practice of abusive exemption of tickets on which instead the ticket was expected, and on the exercise of outpatient activities clandestine. Other judicial investigations see or have seen the protagonists of the top management of the Tuscan ASL (Massa, Siena and the new macro-ASL Toscana Northwest), with accusations ranging from corruption to budget lacks, up to the rigged competitions. More or less striking incidents of malfunctioning of the administrative and bureaucratic machinery, as well as deficiencies in the provision of services and medical devices for serious patients, as well as the now chronic lack of medical and health personnel and the structural problems found in many hospitals, even of recent realization, are practices throughout Tuscany. Having taken note of what has been said, I ask you to work to ensure that in a reasonable time you proceed towards a systematic inspection of the ASL of the Tuscany Region and, if it is considered necessary and appropriate, to consider concretely the possibility of using the instrument of the Commissariat. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u129	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am very sorry to take the floor at the end of the day to remind you of what I consider objectively to be a serious failure on the part of the Government, in so far as it does not respond to the questions that are being asked. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] I have collected at least twenty of my own, and they deal with very concrete problems that concern: children who have been unjustly removed from the family; some aspects that are deeply problematic in the management of the Red Cross; the concrete dynamics of the school and also in relation to a number of professional figures; health care, the management of drugs and, in particular, orphan drugs that are found in the territory. In my opinion, these are not problems that I have personally faced, at a small table in front of some reality. They are problems which come from the citizens and which represent one of the most concrete forms of the citizens' dialogue with political activity and with the institutions. It seems to me sincerely that this Government of Change, at least with regard to answers to questions, is far worse than the Governments of previous legislatures. It has never happened to have such a long sequence of concrete questions and questions, documented and asked by interlocutors who expect an answer. I think of all those rare diseases - there was last Saturday the conference on eosinophilia and patients with severe esophagitis eosinophila - who were really waiting for any answer, but you can't get it. I call on the Presidency to call on the Government - which is not exactly known why it must have so much to do and so much to do with previous governments, also considering the gaps we are witnessing in the management of the ordinary work of the Commissions - so that it can come to the House to answer the questions, perhaps even providing for a time devoted to this. By the way, I would remind you that, in addition to Wednesday's question time, there was a specific morning in the Chamber of Deputies in which the Government came to report at the opening of the Assembly's proceedings. I really believe that this organisation is one of many signs, but not the least, of the government's lack of respect for Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u130	Senator Binetti, the Presidency will be the bearer of your request for the Government to respond to questions put by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u133	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on a matter which, if confirmed, would be considered as an episode of absolute seriousness and to be condemned without whether or not. I am referring to the numerous press reports, according to which, during a football match in the category of promotion, the race director would have insulted a goalkeeper, Gueye Ass Dia, calling him "negro." I repeat: it is news waiting for verification and therefore the utmost caution is required. However, even as a referee and former member of the national technical sector of the Italian association of referees - here are also my colleagues Santangelo, Fusco della Lega e Ferro di Forza Italia - I feel the duty to bring to the attention of this Assembly what apparently happened during that competition. The AIA has started an investigation and by the mouth of its president, Marcello Nicchi, and has announced that the wrong party will pay. Mr President, the values that sport carries on are high and acceptable; in reason and consequence of this, those who come on the field have enormous responsibilities. I am referring to the example that footballers, referees and professionals are called upon to provide to our young people and to many enthusiasts. I hope not, but if the reports were to be confirmed, this would be a very serious incident to be pursued in an exemplary manner. I repeat: we await the outcome of the investigation. These are episodes that risk to permanently stain the spirit and the goal of sports competitions. Attention, ladies and gentlemen: the same must be said in the other direction. Among the values I was talking about and that sport has the task of protecting and spreading occupy a fundamental place loyalty and fairness. It would therefore be necessary to condemn with equal firmness any media set-up by the sports club in question or its representatives. In that case, the hope is that immediately the person of the race director involved will be rehabilitated and that appropriate and heavy measures will be taken against those who have cast shadows on an entire category and on the work, often not easy, of the arbitration class. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u136	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, the citizens of the province of Lecce, the municipalities of Cavallino, Lizzanello and San Donato are paying the consequences of the political choices of municipal administrations, which have led to the establishment of a concentration of waste collection and disposal plants: first with the incinerator and then with the maxi-plants of landfill, biostabilization and asbestos processing and disposal. It is news of these days that in landfills the Mate and Guarini di Cavallino have been detected and documented by ARPA numerous dangerous and carcinogenic pollutants, such as nickel, zinc, manganese and various types of hydrocarbons. For the exceedances of the thresholds reported in the last ten years no characterisation procedure of the site is activated, nor is it known which wells upstream and which downstream of the landfill, according to the trend of the groundwater. Just to give some concrete examples, the ex Saspi landfill is a real ecological bomb, measures 140,000 tons of poisonous waste tombed and has never been reclaimed, despite the requests submitted to the Puglia Region. However, in the technical report drawn up by the prosecutors of Lecce, high concentrations of dioxin, PCBs, hydrocarbons, lead, mercury and copper are found. The prosecutor of Lecce - whom I thank - has summoned the parties concerned and is continuing the investigation. Meanwhile, on 15 January last, the Territorial Agency of the Apulia Region has convened a conference of services for the procurement of the modernization and completion of the RSU biostabilization platform of Cavallino, always in Guarini and Le Mate. And here we are absurd, if we consider that by judgment of April 2016, confirmed by the Council of State in October 2018, the TAR of Lecce had considered the project of the plant unlawful, precisely because in contrast to the provisions that prescribe a minimum distance from the inhabited and sensitive sites. This overall situation is highly damaging to the environment. We therefore ask the mayors of the territories concerned to take action in this regard, instead of protesting alongside yet another attempt at circumvention; at the same time, we ask the Region of Puglia to finally put in place preventive measures to safeguard the health of the citizens. We ask the territory to resist, because citizens do not have to pay for the curiosities and illicit affairs that happen very often on the territories, which always go to the detriment of health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-84.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 29 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.43.
