ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u4	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u5	Mr President, I greet you and the senators. Today, with emotion and pride, I am before you to explain the contents of the annual report on the administration of justice. Emotion, because for the first time, I have the honour to present the annual report in this House; pride, because I trust to give account of the first important results achieved by the Ministry of Justice, which are the foundations for a comprehensive review of the justice system to be developed and completed during the legislative term. I would like to point out that in the Government's contract for change - as the polar star in the justice sector - the need to bring the citizen back to the centre of the judicial system has been indicated. This innovative perspective has been accompanied by a different methodological approach, focusing on listening, dialogue and collaboration. The effective construction of justice to citizen size requires constant participation in the process of renewal by all those who, in various ways, gravitate around the judicial universe. By adopting a dialectical and dialectical criterion, it was decided to undertake a cross-cutting intercourse involving not only the various parliamentary forces, but also legal practitioners: magistrates, administrative staff, lawyers, forensic bodies and the ultimate users of the service, citizens, in order to create paths of reform shared with a view to the pursuit of an overall improvement of justice systems. The justice sector is one of the most important pillars for a legal system that aims to define itself as truly democratic, and strongly influences other policy areas, such as social and economic sectors. It is for these essential reasons that ministerial action must focus on a pragmatic approach to the problems and critical issues that are apparent, free from any ideological prejudice and aimed exclusively at guaranteeing the well-being of the community and citizens. All this is reflected in a constructive confrontation with the opposition forces, open to accepting any proposal that should well be combined with the guidelines contained in the Government contract of change. I believe, in this first beginning of the legislature, that I have demonstrated this openness, having, on the one hand, ensured the necessary bureaucratic continuity proper to the public administration, and, on the other hand, having given rise - within the limits of political compatibility - to legislative procedures that had already been initiated during the previous legislature. My hope is that in this way a season of shared reforms can be inaugurated that, while respecting political differences and parliamentary arrangements, be conducted in the exclusive interest of the country, the result of a healthy dialectical confrontation and not of a sterile and harmful political clash, in the responsible awareness that justice is a value and that it represents the main form of protection for every citizen who legitimately aspires to see his or her rights protected. All the more so when we consider how the legitimate aspirations of citizens are progressively denoting a sharp backwardness. Expensive, slow, unable to guarantee the protection of rights: this is the very heavy judgment that Italians give to justice in the Censis 2018 report. One third of the adult population, 30.7 percent, or 15.6 million people, in fact, in the last two years has renounced to take legal action aimed at asserting its own right: a behavior spread across the whole population but stronger in the South, where it reaches 37.5 percent. The reasons may be different: for 29.4% the problems are excessive costs; 26.5% complains instead of the length of time needed to arrive at a final judgment and 16.2% are said to be distrusted by the judiciary and the functioning of justice. But the common denominator is the constant growth of mistrust: seven out of ten Italians think that the judicial system is not suitable to fully guarantee the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual. I want to make it clear that this distrust is a real paradox if we consider that the Italian judiciary and lawyering are international excellence. I therefore believe that it is now policy that must give an answer to the citizens in the institutional fora on their demand for justice. I will then explain to you the main aspects of the innovations introduced in the year 2018 and the profiles of greater interest of the overall intervention on the administrative machinery related to the justice sector, referring you to the complete reading of the comprehensive documentation on the state of justice that I have deposited today, although not expressly reported here. The fundamental prerequisite for administrative action is the belief that any attempt at legislative innovation would be ineffective in practice if not accompanied and supported by appropriate organisational tools and the necessary human and material resources. The sums allocated to justice expenses have been greatly increased compared to the past considering that the forecast budget for 2019 in the justice area provides an amount of 8.582.653.608 euros, with an increase compared to the forecast budget of the previous Government for 2018 of more than 324 million. Today we can say that justice, in the light of the budget law just passed, is a real priority for this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa.]] Particular attention has been paid to the problem of the shortage of judicial and administrative staff through structural investments and adequate budget appropriations. We had to face, operating a real inversion of march, a condition of serious cover of the organic, fruit of years of spending review. These investments are not episodic, but systematic, that have been and will be accompanied in the next three years by the planning of the future assumptions and the revision of the organic plants in widening, now largely inadequate because of the inertial policies of the last twenty years. A significant commitment has been made by the Ministry of Justice in the management of judicial staff and the functioning of judicial offices translated into the study and adoption of measures aimed at achieving a more efficient distribution and allocation in the judicial offices of available staff resources. The intervention will affect the judiciary's staff through the increasing variation of the office's organic plants while at the same time ensuring that the current percentage of coverage of the staff is maintained. From the first point of view, in implementation of the policy lines of the administration of justice, within the budget law it has been previewed the increase of the organic role of the ordinary judiciary of total 600 magistrates, 530 of which with judicial functions and merit requirements, 65 with judicial functions and demands of legitimacy and five with judicial functions and commanding directives of legitimacy. Specifically, the possibility has been arranged to ban, from the year 2019, competitive procedures aimed at the assumption of a maximum annual quota of 200 ordinary magistrates for the three-year period 2020-2022, within the limits of the expenditure authorisations provided for in the forecast budget for the year 2019 and for the three-year period 2019-2021 equal to 90,70 million euros in the three-year period. As far as the coverage of the staff was concerned, an intense recruitment activity was carried out through the indication, with the ministerial decree of 10 October 2018, of a new competition to 330 places of ordinary magistrate that, together with the next conclusion of the previous competitions announced respectively by the ministerial decree of 19 October 2016 and 31 May 2017, guarantees the necessary continuity in the recruitment of staff through the frequency and constant forecast of at least one contest per year. In order to allow the recruitment of ordinary magistrates winners of competitions already launched on the date of entry into force of the budget law of 360 units more resources were foreseen for 84.4 million euros in the three years 2019-2021. In taking into account what the Ministry of Justice in the course of the previous legislature has arranged in the matter of honorary judiciary, that is, a procedure culminated in the note of 27 April 2018 containing the proposal for the determination of the new organic plants of the offices of the judge of peace and the offices of collaboration of the prosecutor of the Republic, it is emphasized the intention of this Dicastery to recognize that the same honorary judiciary constitutes an indispensable component in the justice system. It is pointed out that, in the state, possible initiatives are being considered to make the interventions in this area more efficient and fair, also and above all through the intercourse with the legal operators concerned. Priority attention has been given to administrative staff who, with their constant commitment and daily support for the actions of magistrates, make an essential contribution to the proper functioning of the judicial machinery. The intervention on staff involved both quantitative and qualitative aspects, while at the same time addressing the shortage of staff and the need to provide the appropriate professional update to the operators. In order to respond to the inevitable and priority need to cover the staff shortages of administrative staff, not only were the winners of the competition for judicial assistants in number of 800, but the ranking of eligible candidates that led to the recruitment of additional 2,044 units which took up service between 9 February and 19 September 2018 was taken over between the central and peripheral offices of the judicial administration. In addition, 131 judicial officials and 13 second-class managers were recruited who signed the individual employment contract on 2 October last year, as well as the latest recruitment within the protected categories. The budget law also provided for more resources for 224.77 million euros in the three-year period 2019-2021 with a view to the permanent recruitment of 3,000 units of judicial administrative staff in the third and second functional areas, of which 97 units of personnel for juvenile justice and community whose organic endowment of the managerial career is increased by seven units. Similarly, for the technical and administrative staff of the department of the penitentiary administration, the permanent recruitment of 260 units of the third and second areas, as well as 35 heads of the penitentiary institution, was planned. This is a first big step to allow the judicial offices to recover efficiency, put in crisis by the terminations from the service not compensated by an adequate turnover, the first step that has allowed to move from a cover of national staff to 31 December 2017 of 23.25 percent to the current one of 20.25 and that will allow to affect even more in the future the rate of cover. In the context of the policy of optimising resources through the encouragement of resources, an important redevelopment activity, carried out through internal selection procedure, concerned the passage of 1,148 chancellors to the area of judicial officials and 622 judicial officers in the area of UNEP officials. Another selection for the attribution of the immediately higher economic belt involved approximately 29,432 employees for a total number of 9.091 places available for the individual progressions related to the different profiles required. The interventions also concerned the staff of the penitentiary administration in an important way in view of the peculiarity and delicacy of the duties exercised. In this regard I would like to highlight the recruitment policies of the new staff through the performance of four public competitions for student agent for a total of 1,438 posts with recruitment of the winners in November and December 2018. In addition, during 2018, 1,331 student agents attended and completed the training course with the placing in service and 977 staff units, selected with internal competition, were started at the training course for the appointment of the Deputy Inspector of the Body whose conclusion is expected in March 2019. As far as administrative staff are concerned, I am fully aware of the expectations there are with regard to the sliding of the existing rankings. In this sense, I would like to say that, after having made a quantitative injection of resources under the budget law, it will be essential to be able to place them on the individual territories, depending on the requests and needs of that territory. It will therefore be necessary to make an assessment in terms of location and intervention times, but by February we will be able to give more detailed answers on the times of the scroll. The improvement of administrative quality has required the preparation of interventions on multiple fields and the search for adaptation actions that, positively affecting the simplification of processes, the simplification and speed of procedures, allow concretely to pursue the primary objective of placing the citizen, user of the justice service, at the centre of the system. For these reasons, the action of my Dicastery in 2018 was focused on the procedures for evaluating results and on those of transparency. As I have said, the setting of clear, specific and measurable objectives is a twofold objective, since it is essential, on the one hand, for a correct comparison of the compliance between achieved results and planned objectives, representing one of the essential parameters for the concrete efficiency of the system. On the other hand, it is also an indispensable tool for fulfilling the reporting obligation the so-called accountability, an innovative concept that recalls the possibility to verify and evaluate the progress and achievements achieved by the administration by the same citizen, the final user of the service. By decree of 10 May 2018, the administration has equipped itself with a new system of measurement and evaluation of performance at the end of a path undertaken with the establishment of a technical table in which all ministerial groups and the independent evaluation body participated. The activity carried out by the general inspectorate, in line with the objectives and guidelines of the ministerial action, has also been characterized not only as an activity of mere control of the regularity of the judicial offices, but above all as a transparent verification of the relative performances, in order to offer support in terms of efficiency and regularity of the offices. With this in mind, in the course of the inspection carried out in 2018, particular attention was paid to the profile of the effectiveness of the judicial proceedings connected with the finality of the decision and its actual execution. The use of prescriptions, recommendations and findings has given particular consideration to irregularities or shortcomings which most directly affect the quality of the service. The checks carried out therefore took place in the civil sector on the respect of the reasonable duration of the proceedings, through the management of the roles and the timing of the deposits and the number of appeals, where instead in the criminal field the attention was directed mainly to the verification of the incidence of the prescription, the modalities and the timing of the passage of the files from one office to the other, as well as the effectiveness of the execution of the sentence, with particular regard to the financial penalties. The inspection action has been directed in particular to the unveiling of critical and obstructive sectors to the attainment of an effective response of justice. On this point, I would like to say that, aware of the very high level of professionalism of our judiciary, which is the best in Europe and certainly one of the best at international level, precisely in respect of that very high level of professionalism, I felt that I gave an increasing boost to the inspectorate to identify who, within a very high category - I repeat - does not work as it should, not respecting first of all its colleagues, causing damage to the justice service and, therefore, to the citizens. The reform of the judicial geography of 2014, while on the one hand allowing a rationalization of the resources available for the justice system, on the other has reduced the presence on the territory of offices close to the citizens, while at the same time increasing the pressure on the residual ones. The closure of some courts has increased in the population a sense of the distance of justice and has marked a real wound for many local realities, having failed a garrison of legality and security represented by the judicial office. The idea of justice that we want to return to the citizens is that of an asset present on the territory, in order to meet the need, especially felt by the weak and especially in areas strongly delocalized compared to those where the offices are located, to be able to obtain protection of rights by accessing a single place where the bodies that, in different ways, participate in the construction of the protection system converge. This is the vision that inspired the project of the neighbourhood offices, which provides for the location in all regions of points of contact and access to the judicial system, to receive information related to judicial proceedings, to send electronic documents, to withdraw communications and notifications, as well as to avail of advice and help, especially in the context of the voluntary jurisdiction, without necessarily having to go to the judicial offices. This is a large-scale structural project, which provides for the possibility of opening up, thanks to the synergy between institutions at national, regional and local level, 1,000 neighbourhood offices, with a total budget of €36.764.941. Neighborhood offices will be able to provide a comprehensive and integrated service of guidance and advice, especially to the weakest groups, for the transmission of acts that do not require the help of a lawyer, such as appeals, requests, annexes and reports. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u6	Colleagues, there is too much buzz in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u7	BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Thank you, Mr President. In this way, citizens will have a certain territorial point of reference, capable of fulfilling all the main functions, for which they were previously forced to go to the nearest court and may have faster answers to their questions, on matters relating to their family and personal sphere. I would like to say that, in the past and clearly in the last parliamentary term, I had been very critical of the new judicial geography and I am still so today, especially in so far as it has come to create an important cover in territorially more peripheral places or in any case in areas where the garrison of legality remains fundamental. I would like to say that, in this respect, we are monitoring closely and we know that the wound is still very open among the citizens: this gives a sense of the importance that justice has for the citizens themselves. We know that the neighbourhood offices do not have a direct connection with judicial geography, because they are quite another thing, but we also know that they are a sign of closeness which, in the context of voluntary jurisdiction, somehow brings justice closer to the weak sections of the population. Judicial construction is a central issue, with two meanings: substantial and symbolic. It is paradoxical to think that the places where justice is administered are themselves a source of violation of citizens' rights as workers. A rule of law cannot and must not allow such abuse. Respect for Articles 3 and 35 of the Constitution requires that the conditions be created so that the places where work takes place offer adequate safety standards and guarantee the well-being of workers. Such places must be suitable to express that solemnity and that sense of authority characterizing the exercise of jurisdiction. For these reasons the Ministry immediately activated itself, implementing a policy of rationalization of costs and restoration of the efficiency of the system and has brought together important economic and organizational resources in the specific direction of adaptation and functionality of the places of justice. In particular, it should be stressed that, with regard to the fifteen-year plan, the resources allocated since 2017 amounted to 80,5 million euros, while since 2018 they amount to 264 million euros while the current request to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) is for a demanding framework of 386 million euros since 2019. In addition to this, EUR 25 million from the Single Justice Fund (FUG) has already been allocated, as well as EUR 505 million of investments for the three-year programming, EUR 56 million for regulatory reforms and EUR 150 million for justice expenditure, all allocated under the budget law. In order to structure a program of organic interventions... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u8	Colleagues, who are not interested in following, can leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u9	BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Thank you, Mr President. In order to structure a program of organic interventions and to be developed along different directions, it has also appeared necessary - and the tragic events of these last days confirm it dramatically - to start a mapping of the current judicial building, in order to understand the composition, the criticality and the level of urgency of the interventions, both structural, and of mere adaptation. The main directions along which the Ministry's activity has moved include, first of all, the recovery of the immediacy of the planned interventions and the timeliness of the maintenance operations of the requesting offices, for which the resources employed have been imposing and acknowledge the attention paid by the Ministry to the delicacy of the topic. The amount for the works of adaptation to the single text (legislative decree no. 81 of 2008) and the commissioning of the plants was 257 million euros, through the realization of 641 interventions. Second, the Ministry's activity has moved in the direction of the progressive zeroing of the passive rentals in place, whose figure is particularly high, being equal to 380 contracts for more than 300 buildings, which constitute a chapter of constant and uneconomic expenditure. The census of such properties has been preliminary to the search for alternative solutions, through the implementation of market surveys aimed at the search for new properties adapted to the needs of the territorial structures and suitable to interrupt an unnecessary expenditure at the head of the Ministry. Eleven market surveys have been carried out, covering the premises of Foggia, Catania (where there are two ongoing investigations), Modena, Udine, Latina, Benevento, Pistoia, Venice, Messina, Civitavecchia and Tivoli. Thirdly, the Ministry's activity includes the re-use of state property with a different original destination, supported also by the preparation of innovative management models. Through the signing of protocols of understanding (nine in the course of 2018) with the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and the National Agency of State, it was possible to plan the realization of as many judicial citadels: Bari, Bologna, Santa Maria Capua Vetere, Velletri, Vercelli, Perugia, Lecce, Trani and Milan, proceeding to the consequent disposal of the passive locations in place of the respective judicial offices. Similarly, buildings of public property that have been in disuse for many years have been identified, to be redeveloped and used for judicial purposes. A separate mention deserves to be made of the resolution of the well-known case concerning the criminal center of the Bari court, a tangible sign of the degree of emergency and urgency to which the problems of judicial construction have come. The procedure has been defined in a very short and objectively short period of time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , with the acquisition for lease of the property located in Bari, via Dioguardi n. 1, due to the needs of the Bari judicial offices previously allocated in the courthouse of via Nazariantz: all without resorting to any commission work. The Administration has made an incessant commitment to the research activity of the new headquarters in contingency times, made even more reduced by the complexity of the survey to be carried out, given the quantity of offices, resources and staff to be allocated. Clearly, we are talking about a solution that is not definitive, but still stable. Speaking of penitentiary building, I would like to dedicate a thought to Antonio Montinaro, next to the lawyer oath (he just passed the orals). In recent days, at the palace of the Milan court, he has been involved in an accident and is still under the care of the doctors of the Milan Policlinico. I went there personally and, with the judicial offices, we continued (not initiated) an intercourse to better manage the security demands of the courts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The increase in the functionality of the services has also marked the activity of managing and adapting the real estate for the field of juvenile justice and community. The interventions have therefore focused on the rationalization of the spaces, the elevation of the standards of hygiene and safety, the introduction of advanced technological systems for the optimization of the activities of control and management of the criminal institutions, in the awareness that the criminal execution against the children manifests a particular necessity of territorialization of the penalty, since the reeducation of the children must take place integrating the state support with the family one. This Dicastery has strongly committed itself to ensuring a scrupulous management of the redeployment of minors to the various district structures, carried out in compliance with the parameters defined at national level, ensuring to all interested users the continuity of contacts and family relationships, also through incisive interventions in the individual realities, to accelerate the reopening of temporarily suspended sections. I have repeatedly reiterated that a serious and ambitious plan to restructure the justice system is inescapable through an adequate allocation of new resources and an optimization of existing ones. The real challenge is the ability to contain expenditure and, at the same time, raise the quality standards of the services offered to users. A further positive intervention carried out in 2018 by the Ministry, for the containment and rationalization of expenditure, was represented by the management of the payment of convictions for the so-called Pinto law which - as is known - constitutes a considerable item of the liabilities of the budget of justice. The extinction of this item has represented and will represent for the future a primary objective of this Administration, in order to avoid further expenses deriving from the related litigation procedures established both at national level, and at the European Court of Human Rights, definitively breaking the vicious circle that has resulted from it over the years. As regards the debt linked to the so-called Pinto law and the various details, I refer you to the report I have submitted. I would now like to focus on digitisation, which has gone on and continues to move forward with new impetus. It is essential to continue the process of digitization and telematization of judicial proceedings, with the launch of the Portal of telematic services, the telematic notifications of the judge of peace by June 2019 and the digitization in Cassation. By 2019, preliminary pre-validation will be achieved for the filing of judgments and the councilman's desk will be launched. The tender for the telematization of the criminal trial is then being awarded, with an executive project that could be ready by June 2019. The proper functioning of civil justice is one of the cornerstones of the legal order, since it is entrusted with the protection of the rights of workers, contractors, entrepreneurs and creditors, as well as of the citizens themselves as parents, children and spouses. Absolute will have to be - it has already been in these first months - the commitment of my Dicastery to guarantee a service able to produce decisions in a reasonable and reasonable time, avoiding that access to the civil process turns into a constantly denied demand for justice, thus producing the distrust of citizens and economic operators and adding to the general disaffection of the associates towards the State also the distrust of foreign investors. I would like to announce, since we are also talking about access to justice and its costs, that over the previous months a table has been established for comparison with the Bill, which has led to a draft decree on access to justice, which, probably in the next Council of Ministers, will lead to the approval of a bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the primary objective of the work of my Ministry and the Government has been identified in an analytical intervention, of a simplified nature, on the civil process. Beyond the growing or decreasing trend, the statistics of civil jurisdiction place us in front of a given objective, that is the enormous demand for justice that comes from the citizens. As of December 31, 2018, in fact, the processes of new registration in every degree of judgment are estimated in a good 3,215,989. Despite the considerable and meritorious effort made, day after day, by magistrates, administrative staff, lawyers and all legal practitioners and despite the numerous reforms that have taken place over time, this question has never been adequately answered. Indeed - as I have argued in other forums - civil justice suffers from regulatory hypertrophy. Reforms have been hasty, episodic and without rational coordination and have generated more harmful effects than favorable within an extremely complex machine, requiring further time and legal efforts to absorb the changes and, paradoxically, causing further criticalities and delays themselves. A reform of the civil process must therefore focus on the criteria of selectivity, as well as on regulatory simplification, ensuring the solution of the complexity and fragmentations that frequently represent not guarantees for users, but hinders the correct unravelling of procedures. By the first half of February 2019 a draft delegation law will be deposited covering the reform of the civil rite, together with the reform of the criminal rite. With regard to the reform of the civil rite, the measure will introduce simplified mechanisms for the cases reserved for the decision of the court in monocratic and collegial composition, for the judgment before the judge of peace and for the appeals: in short, a simpler and more understandable process for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Precisely the destructuration of the process represents the other fundamental soul of the reform project, in order to give rise to a first hypothesis of process inspired by the principles of the case management in which it is allowed the judge and the parties to modulate procedural times and formalities on the basis of the actual complexity of the dispute and the real defensive requirements, clearly in respect of the rights of the parties involved in the litigation. This will be a process that I like to define as an accordion, that is, a process that can last one or two hearings at most for simple causes and that, instead, has a longer temporal extension than more complex causes that require, of course, a deepening in the judgment. Along with this directive, intervention will also have to include among the criteria other institutions capable of reducing the timing of the process without reducing functionality and guarantees. I am thinking, for example, of the obligation to deposit introductory documents in a purely telematic manner. In this light, the institution of compulsory mediation will also be the subject of a heartfelt restyling based on the evaluation of the results that have been obtained over time. The other major branch of intervention in civil justice completed in 2018 is the systematic reform of insolvency proceedings. As is well known, on 11 October 2017, Law No 155, containing the delegation to the Government for the reform of the discipline of the business crisis and insolvency, was approved. The adoption of the legislative decree implementing the aforementioned delegation, whose system was finally approved by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019, will replace the current bankruptcy law as well as Law No 3 of 2012. Again, the methodological approach has been based on the obvious need to speed up the response in bankruptcy matters and less cumbersome procedures, made uneasy by the continuous overlapping of partial changes and the consequent difficulty of harmonising the reformed and unchanged provisions. The certainty of legal times and responses is a driving force for the economy and a factor that attracts foreign capital. This is why the stated objective of the reform has been to achieve a modern insolvency system which, by encouraging the emergence of the crisis, including through the use of premium measures, facilitating the repayment, including of small entrepreneurs and consumers, and promoting solutions of the crisis focused on the continuation of business activity, allows, as a whole, a better protection of the creditor class, offering the entrepreneur a second chance. On the basis of this principle, it was decided to replace the concept of bankruptcy with that of judicial winding-up. The new lexical approach, aimed at avoiding the aura of social stigmatization, even personal, that historically the term failure evokes, expresses a new culture of overcoming insolvency, seen as physiological eventuality in the life cycle of a company, to be prevented and eventually adjusted to the best. An entrepreneur in crisis is an entrepreneur in crisis: he is not a failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa]] Similarly, in the conviction that the conditions of insolvency and corporate crisis represent physiological moments of the company, but precisely for these foreseeable reasons, warning measures have been inserted that, allowing to anticipate the emergence of the crisis, give rise to a preventive phase directed to a rapid analysis of the causes of the economic and financial malaise of the entrepreneur, destined to resolve, if necessary, in a real service of assisted composition of the crisis. I would like to stress the coherence of this project which has been going on since the last parliamentary term, when it began and was in opposition. That project had been supported because it was in the interests of the citizens and, consistently, once in the majority, we continued in that activity, correcting where necessary, reaching an important result for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that this is a virtuous example, which leads citizens to believe in a policy that does not alter their lives and that of entrepreneurs at every change of government, but continues, where possible, and within the limits of compatibility with the new political line, on projects really in their favour. In full harmony with the spirit of reform, in 2018 the ministerial activity gave rise to further regulatory interventions in the civil sector, currently in itinerant, inspired by the strongly felt emergency to restore slimity to everyday bureaucratic procedures, favoring the ever less access to the chancellories or however to the offices for the most disparate fulfillments, with a view to saving energy and efficiency of the judicial machine. I am thinking of the so-called simplification decree-law, which contains urgent provisions on civil justice, in particular amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure on enforcement of public administration creditors and urgent measures to facilitate the collection of justice claims, as well as the continuation of telematic operations for the implementation of the telematic civil process. This intense effort for renewal, both regulatory and structural, has been echoed by the data of criminal proceedings which, by consolidating the decreasing trend of last year, has seen a reduction of 3% on the total of proceedings. Now I would like to stress - as I have said several times - that the number of proceedings is fundamental, but every time we have to ask ourselves what is behind it, aware that, if the reduction in the number of disputes corresponds to a renunciation of citizens to demand justice, that represents the greatest failure of the State and no merit for the legislator and the Administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For these results, I feel it is my duty to publicly thank the judiciary, administrative staff, lawyers, chancellors and any other legal practitioners who have provided an adequate justice response to the citizens and to the Italian State. With regard to criminal justice, for years it has been the ground of harsh political clashes, sometimes instrumental, which have prevented a serene assessment of the criticalities and priorities, producing little incisive and sporadic reform interventions, frequently dictated by emergent situations, bringing back to the citizens the weight of the inadequacy of a criminal process that does not guarantee the certainty of the penalty, nor the reasonable duration of the trials. In turning a definite page and political season, the action of government, in particular of my Ministry, starts from these basic reflections and from the awareness that an efficient service is based on the certainty of rules and penalties. Therefore, in line with the indications already present in the Government's contract for change, the entire ministerial action has been focused on the two fundamental directives of the fight against corruption and the reform of the prescription system. Both regulatory interventions are contained in Law No. 3 of 9 January 2019, the so-called corrupt sweep. Corrutive phenomena not only represent a serious obstacle to the healthy economic fabric of our country, limiting or discouraging investment, but also pose themselves as an instrument that allows criminal organizations, even of mafia origin, to have a sustenance and a greater attitude to infiltrations into the social, economic and political fabric of the State. Moreover, in the area of corruption, data from international statistics are alarming. The level of corruption perceived in the public sector is high and places Italy in a position far from the top of the European rankings, warning of a serious insufficiency and a constant and sensitive distance from desirable and truly competitive levels. In particular, in the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Italy is the country with the highest rate of corruption perceived, as emerges from a research curated by the Institute of Political, Economic and Social Studies (Eurispes). This figure is close to 90% and is likely to have a real impact on the national economy in terms of confidence in institutions and markets. Moreover, according to the World Bank, corruption is one of the biggest obstacles to the economic and social development of states, adversely affecting growth, estimated at between 0.5 and 1% per annum. In detail, in the last ranking of Transparency International Italy is 69th place, while 85 percent of Italians are convinced that institutions and politicians have to do with corruption. This is not an opinion: this is an objective fact. And it is not irrelevant that this is a less significant perception of corruption, because foreign investors, if they perceive a high level of corruption, do not want to compete in a market infiltrated by corruption and, therefore, by organised crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fighting this real social scourge is at the same time a moral imperative and a crucial point of political action that wants to offer citizens the image of an efficient and functional public administration, in full respect of Article 97 of the Constitution. The approved reform presents the characteristics of the organicity and systematicity, having been designed and elaborated in such a way as to intervene both on the substantive and procedural investigative side, on the assumption that a serious fight against corruption requires not only an adequate structuring of the criminal cases, but also the choice of investigative instruments and powers of investigation suitable for the effective prosecution of the crimes by the investigative bodies and the judicial authority. The measure, therefore, besides providing for an overall reorganization of the discipline of crimes against the public administration and the tightening of sanctions, includes among the novelties of greatest interest the so-called Daspo for the corrupt and a special cause of non-perpetuality in the case of voluntary, timely and effective collaboration. Similarly, new investigative instruments have been provided to investigative bodies and the judicial authority, through the extension of the special investigative techniques provided for in Article 9 of Law No 46 of 2006, in particular of the undercover agent, to a number of offences against the public administration, including concussion and corruption for the exercise of the function, corruption for an act contrary to office duties, trafficking in illicit influences. The possibility of a controlled delivery of money or other utility in the course of ongoing illegal activities has also been extended to investigations into offences against the public administration. In this way one wants to give the country a system in which to corrupt and be corrupt not only represents a disvalue, but even does not agree and in which honesty and respect of the rules not only do not satisfy one's conscience, but also represent a lifestyle finally supported and rewarded by the Italian State [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of equal importance was the intervention on the criminal trial, in order to make effective the dictation of Article 110 of the Constitution and to ensure the reasonable duration of the trial. Any substantive legal intervention would remain ephemeral and merely formal if, despite the enormous efforts of legal operators, it was not possible to guarantee a response of justice in certain times and in a position to reaffirm the primacy of the State. In carrying out a systematic reform of the prescription we started from the following basic considerations that I propose to you. The data on the criminal sector is really worrying and shows in 2017 an increase in processes that are extinguished by prescription: 9.4% in 2017 compared with 8.7 percent in 2016. Specifically, the procedures prescribed were 125,550, of which 25.8 percent could appeal. The search for truth and the need for justice cannot be frustrated by the presumptuous use of an institute which, while having an original noble function, cannot end up ensuring impunity with respect to criminal behaviors that cause a high social alarm and, when I speak of pretentious and instrumental use, I refer precisely to the political debate that has been done in relation to the prescription. Moreover, it must be considered as the course of the prescription involves in practice the nullification of the work carried out in the investigation and during the various procedural degrees, causing essentially an unproductive use of human and economic resources. It was therefore decided to intervene on the institution of the prescription, recovering and protecting its authentic function as guarantor of the citizen's right to oblivion through an incisive modification of Article 159 of the penal code, introducing a new prosthesis of suspension of the limitation period that occurs at the time of the judgment of first instance or of the decree of condemnation and continues until the date of enforceability of the sentence, which defines the judgment or irrevocableness of the decree of condemnation. This has created a balance between the requirements of justice and those of those who legitimately require not to be subject to criminal proceedings for an indefinite period. It reaffirms the principle that, in the face of a judgment at first instance, the State manifests its interest in establishing the truth in an absolute manner. In the same way, it offers a deterrent tool compared to defensive strategies merely and legitimately dilatory in the presence of an instrument provided by the law. With this, I want to reassure all those who claim that, in the state of the art, the reduction of absolute declarations by prescription may result in further lengthening of processes. I assure you that, precisely in order to avoid this risk, there is now a massive intervention on the structural causes that today determine the unreasonable duration of the processes, through the increase and optimization of human resources, the acceleration of information innovation, the simplification of procedures and, above all, the simplification of the institutes of procedural law. Numerous other interventions were carried out in the criminal field in 2018, both substantive and procedural. However, attention to systematic reforms has not prevented the involvement of the Ministry's energies on further critical aspects, sometimes accepting the demands from Europe. I want to point out, in particular, the attention paid to a real social emergency, gender violence, which the State cannot give way to at all. The ministerial intervention took place through the approval by the Council of Ministers, on 29 November 2018, of the bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender violence, the so-called red code, which - I would like to say - was written with four hands together with Minister Giulia Bongiorno. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This initiative aims to ensure the absolute timeliness of precautionary measures or prevention to protect victims of maltreatment, sexual violence, persecutory acts and aggravated injuries, as they are committed in family contexts or in the context of cohabitation relations, in order to achieve, where necessary, as soon as possible, protective measures and non-approaches and to prevent further endangering the life and physical safety of victims of domestic and gender violence. I would like to express my hope that, on the so-called red code, we will be able to reach rapid and unanimous approval by Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'AZ groups]] : even in comparison and possibly even correcting the errors of the text - if any - in fact, I do not doubt the compactness of the institutions and political forces with respect to such a serious social scourge. Turning to the model of criminal execution, between the certainty of punishment and the dignity of detention, today the situation of our prisons is dramatic. There have already been some interventions aimed at affecting a situation in which prisoners present in prisons on January 21, 2019 are 59.947, compared to a regulatory capacity of 50.569 units. To these numbers are added other more alarming: the 61 suicides of prisoners and the 4 of prison police officers in 2018; the critical events amount to 3.808 (473 injuries, 3,331 episodes of struggle, 2 attempted murders and 2 real revolts in prison). In order to ensure the rationalization of the spaces and the improvement of the living conditions of prisoners in prison, substantial funds have been allocated to the penitentiary building: as many as 44 million euros more than in the past, 85 million for 2019 and 30 million for 2020 as residues at the MIT of the previous prison plan; with regard to the fifteen-year plan, 80 million has been allocated since 2018 and 30 million is the amount of our request, in the demanding framework, starting from 2019; 3 million euros already allocated for the FUG; 43 million euros already foreseen for the reform of the criminal process; 190 million unlocked since 2019 for eight years for the penitentiary building, due to the decree-law security. The above funds, except in the state the residual allocation relating to the prison plan, can be invested through the procedural facilities provided by the Decree-Law simplification to Article 7 that, in detail, to remedy the problematic aspects related to the excessive length of the time between the design and the availability of the new structures, assigns for a two-year period to the staff of the Department of the penitentiary administration also the following additional functions: the carrying out of projects and evaluations; the management of the procedures of entrusting these interventions and the identification of buildings. Moreover, in the conviction that the problem of overcrowding can be effectively addressed, also creating the conditions for foreign prisoners, constituting a significant percentage of the prison population, to atone for the sentence in the prisons of the countries of origin, particular commitment has been made to the conclusion of treaties and/or bilateral agreements aimed at facilitating and simplifying the transfer of these prisoners following appropriate interlocations with the ministers of Albania, Romania and Morocco. We have also acted in the field of juvenile justice, enhancing for the intramural treatment and non-paths elaborated according to the principles of personalization, flexibility and listening. I would like to stress the importance that our prison police officers play within prisons. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] I would like to say that they carry out not only a safety function within prisons, but also a fundamental prevention work for the time when prisoners will leave prisons and will have to be reinserted into society. In this sense, the activity that the Prison Police carries out in monitoring the dynamics that can lead to increasing phenomena of terrorism is fundamental. That is why we have recently approved the rule that provides for the possibility for the National Anti-Mafia and Counter-Terrorism Directorate to have directly a pool of 20 prison police officers. This is a recognition of their work and the importance of the link between the judicial authority, which specializes in combating mafia and terrorism, and prison police officers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] With regard to the subject of penitentiary institutions, the problem of mothers in prison is also crucial. The Government is committed to trying to increase the structures that, at regional level, can accommodate such special situations. By the way, we have already activated ourselves with the security decree, approving a rule that provides for automatic reporting of such a situation. We need to ask ourselves not only where the newborn or the child should be with the mother in custody, but also whether they are safe if they are close to a mother who has been guilty of crime and may not be able at that time to guarantee their safety. An alert is then activated following which certain checks are carried out. With regard to the international framework, the pursuit of the priority objectives of ministerial action in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, corruption and money laundering cannot be excluded from international action, even more in view of the high expectations placed in the future work of the European Public Prosecutor. In recent decades we have seen a progressive transformation of criminal realities, which have now largely crossed national borders. Today, the main criminal phenomena and the most lucrative and harmful illegal activities for the social economic fabric have an international dimension and therefore equal cohesion is required of all the countries of the eurozone (and not only) in order to give rise to effective action of contrast, developing common and coordinated policy lines and instruments of struggle. Consequently, in order to cope effectively with the increase in cross-border crime in recent years, this Dicastery has stepped up its commitment to judicial cooperation in the context of the European Union, making the fight against terrorism and organised crime one of the cornerstones of ministerial action. Among the most significant results, mention should be made of the recent arrest of the fugitive Cesare Battisti, who was finally sentenced to life imprisonment. He was handed over to our country by the Bolivian authorities, a country where he had taken refuge following the reform of the extradition decree against him, signed in December 2018 by the Brazilian Presidency, thus ending the long and complex procedure activated by our authorities and the Department for Justice Affairs of the Ministry that I represent to ensure his return to Italy. The adoption of the regulation establishing the new European Public Prosecutor's Office, with responsibility for fraud against the EU budget, has been a fundamental step in recent months. It is a decisive step in the overall construction of a European judicial area. Following the entry into force of the Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the contribution to the drafting of the European delegation law and European law has been drawn up, identifying the delegation criteria for the implementation of Directive EU 2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union through criminal law, so-called PIF Directive (financial interest protection), and the European Data Protection Supervisor Regulation. Both draft legislative plans were approved by the Council of Ministers on 6 September 2018 and are now under scrutiny by the Parliamentary process to verify, on such a sensitive matter, whether important corrections need to be made. The procedure for appointing the European Public Prosecutor is already a source of fruitful dialogue between my Ministry and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In the field of corruption, particular commitment in the current year has been made by the Italian delegation, whose head is this Ministry, within the framework of the Group of States against Corruption (Greco) at the Council of Europe, where an important recognition has been obtained about the adequacy of our system of prevention and fight against corruption for the introduction of cases of offences sanctioning forms of corruption in the private sector. On the issues of the prevention of corruption against Members of Parliament and the judiciary, during the last plenary assembly last December was given by the Greek wide recognition of the progress made by the country in recent years, with the consequent withdrawal of a large part of the recommendations pertaining to the field of justice. In the report adopted, great emphasis has been given to the adoption of the so-called corrupt sweep law, whose novelties have been seen as a significant step forward in the country's engagement in the fight against corruption, as well as absolutely adequate to overcome the disputes raised by the Greek in the report on the third cycle of evaluation of Italy concerning incriminations and the financing of parties. From this point of view - I would like to stress this - Italy is now entitled, thanks to legislation considered at the forefront at the international level, to position itself in a position of leadership in the international panorama in the fight against corruption and organised crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Clearly, in the report I referred to initiatives that had a more direct impetus from the Government, not forgetting that, in the area of justice, Parliament is carrying out a process of examination and approval on important matters such as self-defence or amendment of Article 416b. Compared to these initiatives - as you know - the confrontation with the Government has been absolutely transparent, frank and constructive. I would like to say that all the work I have been telling you about, and that I have had to summarise, albeit in a broad time, will be carried forward - I would like to stress this - in the intercourse with Parliament and also in the fundamental dialogue with the Supreme Council of the judiciary and with those involved in the work. An example of this confrontation I hope will be the reforms of the civil process and the criminal process. And, in this sense, I wanted to give a signal with the identification of the instrument of the delegation law, which will allow Parliament to express itself on such important projects, on which tables of comparison will be opened at the same time with the professionals, and therefore with the magistrates and lawyers, who will be able to make a fundamental contribution in calibrating the reforms with respect to the concrete needs that come from our judicial offices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u10	Thank you, Minister. I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u11	Even this morning, as is natural, right and proper, we have listened very carefully to the communications that you, Minister, have made to this House about the state and administration of justice. I would like to tell you frankly and bluntly that this has once again been a missed opportunity for you to change course compared to what you have done and said in recent months. (at 10.41 a.m.) (Following VALENT). I do not speak directly of individual issues, but I try to start - as you have done - first of all from a method, which you rightly referred to in the conclusion of your extensive and long report. Even today you have suggested, repeating it several times, that listening, comparison and collaboration are your method of work, but still today - exactly as you have done so many times in recent months - these have been empty words, without meaning and meaning. Minister, you said you would like to be a Minister who would like to be a Minister who would discuss and seek dialogue in Parliament with the opposition forces, as well as with his majority, but above all a Minister who would seek dialogue outside, with the subjects and the world of justice. I would point out to you, however, that it will certainly be remembered that the minister who brought to Parliament at night, unaware of the same and without dialogue and confrontation with all the most authoritative players in the world of justice, the reform of a very important institution in the world of justice, the prescription. You are the Minister who has taken on the very serious issue of the fight against corruption to use it exclusively as a political medal to be put in the chest instead of listening - for example - to the criticisms, but also the valid suggestions that came from the same anti-corruption authority, as well as from its President Raffaele Cantone. You are the Minister who, in the face of a Vice-Premier who reveals of ongoing investigations and then attacking individual magistrates who did their duty, preferred to keep quiet, rather than defending the independence and autonomy of the judiciary. I ask you: is this honestly the way in which you would like to build the premises of respect, dialogue and mutual collaboration with Parliament first and foremost, with the opposition forces, but also with the main actors in the world of justice? Mr. Minister, how much longer are you going to deal with the good intentions inspired by dialogue if then every event and every measure for you is good only to spread grudge, suspicion and to build enemies to be delegitimized? Do you really believe that you are doing a service to Italian justice or taking it out of the political pantan - as you have often said - using the arrest of a cruel terrorist to set up an incredible and unworthy performance at Rome airport, along with your colleague and competitor Minister Salvini? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Carbone]] Is this the justice system for you? You have messed up an arrest, which is the long-awaited success of all the Italian law enforcement and investigation forces. Your Government should learn - allow me - the lesson of civilizations that gave you the son of Torregiani and the policewoman - you are, fortunately - of the Digos of Milan, who arrested Battisti. Since that's what you've been used to these months, I'd like to stay on the record today. In the first months of this government, many measures were symbolic, mostly made to respond to the will of the squares, but very few were designed to bring visible effects and improve our justice system. I take into consideration those of whom you are most proud. You said - you said this again this morning in this Chamber - that you resolved the situation of the Bari court without extraordinary measures. You said exactly that, and you repeated that by referring to the failure to appoint a Commissioner. In July this Parliament - I remind you - converted a decree-law of the Government which took on a more than extraordinary measure, the suspension of the criminal proceedings of the Bari court, for the impossibility of the office. We still remember your triumphal words, repeated again by you today. Today the situation is that half of the palace of justice has been moved to a place that should be temporary, but from you Minister, there is no news about the new polo on justice. I want to remind you that for the Bari court, I think you know that, there was substantial funding left to be inherited by the former Minister of Justice. I ask you, what happened to those resources? Are they still destined for Bari or have they simply lost themselves in the meandering of the millions for judicial construction that you, Minister, sometimes announce and then forget to implement? If you want to be remembered as the Minister who goes from words to deeds, give concrete answers and finally prepare a suitable place to host, ultimately, the Bari criminal justice system. So far too many empty and very, very disappointing announcements have been made about actual initiatives. I say this because even in the budget law, which should have come from - you say - epochal appropriations for the justice sector, we have seen, above all, substantial cuts in the programmes for the penitentiary administration, civil justice and criminal justice, cuts in countertrend, to tell the truth, in previous years. And then, if we really want to talk about the increase in the organic plant of the magistrates, let's also say - of course - that it is and would be an extremely positive fact, unfortunately only if there were, in correspondence, the necessary covers. Instead, and you know it well, this budget law also extends to the area of justice the blockade of recruitment until November 2019. Once again, then, empty promises, promises of facade. Let's not fool ourselves: you're cutting off resources from the administration of justice, promising something that you're actually undermining right now with your rude and irresponsible choices. Mr Bonafede, you risk being reminded of how the Minister, who, with the suspension of the prescription, gave a final blow to the criminal trial. [[Applause from the PD Group]] No one has yet understood how the stop of the prescription should facilitate the duration of the processes, nor does she allow us to understand it. No one has understood this because that rule is a check discovered on the shoulders of the Italians, who from 2020 will have infinite trials and accused guilty and still exposed to penalties regardless, because the penalty of an eternal trial is a penalty regardless. You could have waited for the 2017 intervention data, as anyone who really cared about the interests of criminal justice and not just their consent would have done. This government, on the other hand, has made an exchange: abolishing the prescription in exchange for a reform of the process of which nothing is known, nothing! This runs the risk of closing in advance any opening of confrontation on the criminal process but above all risks closing the game on decriminalization, laboriously opened in the previous years, which thus requires to move forward. Instead, you choose the path of criminalisation in terms of electoral consensus, just as you went straight on the prescription only to show a fake rigor, a hard fist, but without listening to the rain of criticism that came from magistrates and lawyers, without intervening substantially on the machine and on the functioning of justice, on which we would have expected today, precisely for the type of report that you owed to this House and this Parliament, clearer words, words to which they should have followed actions. You have done so, for example, on anti-corruption, where you could have combined, of course, criminal repression but also and above all prevention, you could have focused, for example, on the organizational simplification and transparency of administrative procedures, because it is from here that the legality of behaviour passes first, Minister. And instead you chose the opposite path, based only on the repression of criminal phenomena, dangerously comparing mafia and corruption, as if they were exactly the same thing. Too bad that while with one hand approved the anti-corruption, with the other allowed to derogate from the code of contracts, raising to 150,000 euros the threshold for direct custody in the municipalities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Italian citizens must know that this is your anti-corruption: with your right hand use the provocative agent, use roboating words such as DASPO and "corruption sweeps" and with the left you make standards appreciated by all those who want to infiltrate illegally in the local administrations. We'll see about the results. Mr Bonafede, if we look at how justice has been administered in these months, I certainly see many measures announced for the future, starting with those on the civil criminal trial and few things initiated, especially in the parliamentary process. Then I see symbolic interventions propaganda as epochs, whose effectiveness is all to be measured. Minister Bonafede, you have lent yourself to use the soil of justice and its administration for interventions for symbolic and emerging use, especially propagandistic, interventions in which we do not see an organic design nor final objectives and much less a clear path to achieve them. This is the most serious lack of this Government: to have smuggled palingenesis and fake revolutions in exchange for nothing. You have sacrificed on the altar of propaganda and consensus a legal civilization among the most envied in Europe. That is why his words, today, unfortunately confirm his will to continue along this path and for this reason we, as PD, say to you: Stop. Stop before it's too late. To continue this way is not a spite you make to the Democratic Party, it is not a point earned to the detriment of an opponent because no more points in the polls is worth to the end a match of this magnitude. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have listened very carefully to your report and it is clear from your words that, albeit with minimal and imperceptible improvements, the endemic problems of our country's justice system remain almost unchanged: the slow pace of time, efficiency and productivity, despite the commendable commitment of all the operators, to whom I and our thanks go. Italian citizens feel that justice is still inadequate and incapable of ensuring effective protection against the harm of their rights and interests, with serious consequences of distrust of the State as a whole. There is a problem of economic resources for the operation of the judicial machine: Italy spends about 90 euros per inhabitant, while Germany spends 150. There is a human resource problem: Italy has about ten magistrates per 100,000 inhabitants, while Germany has 23. Our country is one of the last of those belonging to the OECD due to the slowness of civil causes. The OECD has certified that in Italy the average time for the conclusion of the three degrees of judgment is almost eight years, while the average of the other States is around a little more than two years. The number of trials pending both in the civil and criminal sectors (more than three and a half million in the civil and one and a half million in the criminal, respectively, according to the monitoring of the Ministry of Justice), combined with the efficiency of the judicial machinery, determines the impossibility that these are defined in a reasonable time, as determined by the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution. The consequences are a serious damage to legality, widespread mistrust in the institutions and important economic repercussions. Not only that. In Italy there is a great problem of the credibility of the justice system, because a criminal sentence that intervenes after many years, whether of condemnation or absolution, certainly finds the parties, both the guilty and the victim, people absolutely different from the time of the commission of facts. In the same way, a civil judgment handed down after a very long time certainly produces attenuated effects between the parties, if not among their heirs even. It is well known on which fronts it should be committed. In the case of civil proceedings, the time taken to investigate must be reduced as quickly as possible to reach the judgment. In criminal matters, the problem of the duration of the trials is even more serious, since on the one hand it opens the door to the limitation of proceedings and on the other it risks chaining victims and accused, guilty and innocent, to endless trials. I will never tire of repeating that we need sentences issued as soon as possible and a certainty of the compensation effect of the sentence, reaffirming the re-educational function of the sentence and strengthening alternative measures. On this occasion I would like to draw your attention also to a topic that has little space in the debate of our country. The situation of Italian prisons is in deep crisis: in the face of a regulatory capacity of 50,632 prisoners, there is a number of almost 60,000 prisoners, of which at least 10,000 are awaiting final judgment. Italy has been investing too little, and for years, in the operation of the judicial machinery. There are some particularly urgent measures: I believe that it is essential to complete the computerization of processes in every area and sector and that we must ensure that the development of the judicial machinery goes hand in hand with technological innovation. It is absurd that in Italy one cannot have a certificate of pending cargoes that is valid throughout the national territory: the unification of the pending cargoes is something that has been required for twenty years and still has not been achieved. Certified e-mail notifications, already proposed to this Government, would be a first solution to reduce the length of the notification system even in the criminal process, as it was in the civil process. It is not clear why the reform of notifications through certified e-mail (PEC) should not be implemented for the criminal process, leaving the system still anchored to outdated procedures. Further benefits, both in time and in costs, could come from some small reforms, which leave absolutely unchanged the balances within the trial: think, for example, of the remote interrogation of witnesses with telematic methods, since many referrals of hearing are determined precisely by their impossibility to reach the courts on the established dates. There are still many obstacles that are encountered in the process and that, without increasing guarantees, result in an objective slowdown in the timing of the criminal trial. For example, the discipline of the filing of documents at the end of the investigation, with notifications, sometimes hundreds of defendants, and with the possibility of requesting an interrogation, leads to a considerable stalemate in the times of justice. Why, then, not review this discipline and carry out a reform that costs absolutely nothing? Another example is the myth of absolute orality in the debate, which should at least be reviewed and circumscribed. I have seen verbalizers who, after years, have been forced to retrace all the phases of the investigations, without being able simply to confirm the complex information already rendered in investigation, except of course for further investigation by the practitioners of the justice. Let us not forget that we are currently building two trials: on the one hand there is a trial with the guaranteed acts, in the investigation and in the investigation, in case the defendant wants to resort to the abbreviated rites or to the immediate rite. But if you do not go down that road, you know very well, Minister, that we are going to debate, we are going to cancel everything and we must do it all again. A structural and epochal choice would then be necessary: either a guaranteed inquisitory process or a process entirely based on orality, but taking all the implant of the Anglo-Saxon process, without creating something that takes the one and the other model and naturally extends the time of the process. Finally, once and for all, it would be necessary to revise the appeals, not only at second-degree level, but also at the level of Cassation. I would like to conclude with a subject that is particularly dear to me: in recent decades there have been considerable blows to the Mafia organisations, but since organised crime - as you yourself said, Minister - shows exceptional qualities of ductility, ability to adapt to the times and to exploit new opportunities, the evolution of the Mafia method of intimidation, corruption and grey area must be carefully followed, in order to prevent its effects. This is also true of international judicial cooperation, which has not yet been implemented by certain conventions on organised crime, such as that of 2000, which was even signed in Palermo and which was wanted by Giovanni Falcone. That Convention has been abandoned and its implementation would be the way to re-evaluate a fruitful activity carried out by excellent magistrates, which are still remembered worldwide. Therefore, conscious prevention, monitoring and adaptation of anti-mafia legislation become indispensable and strategic. The fight against mafias must not remain a slogan for election campaigns, it must be a priority for the government and Parliament. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Sergio Cosmai in Bisceglie, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have listened carefully to your report, which was certainly full-bodied and which I imagine you have cut a bit, compared to what was all the pages. I do not want to use my speech to reiterate what many people are likely to say today, namely the question of the so-called scrubber, which we call the rightful sweep, and the question of prescription. Rather, I would like to focus the attention of the House and of course of the Minister, who carried out the report, on certain issues which follow that measure and which then relate to the prospects that this Ministry seems to have. The reform of the prescription, as imagined, should come into force in a year, because - at least this has been declared in all fora - within a year the Minister and the Government believe they can make the necessary assumptions to make the machine of justice work. The Minister has provided some data, which are quite well known, with reference to a slight improvement in pending cases but it is not known whether it is due to the fact that the causes have been reduced because one no longer asks to go to the magistrate or for other reasons. The heart of the problem is recruitment and to us and to the country it has been told that everything can work when the organic plants planned for the magistrates are filled and therefore we start with the policy of hiring. Now, Minister, we have numerical doubts that are serious and that are likely to affect all the design that you bring to the attention of the House and especially of the country, because the cover of organic plants is about 11.45 percent, so we are talking about 1,136 vacancies. Now, it's not that you - right now I'm talking to you, but I'm addressing the whole government - are going to fill the organic plants, because we're going to have a 15% increase in the tables, but that doesn't mean that the places will all be filled. I say this for the simple reason that today we have a contest in place from 330 places, in 2017 the places had been 320 and had been 360 in the previous two years and then, in the next two years, from what we read in the budget law (which we know how it was approved), the places will be only 200, so, in reality, we will remain at the same level today, with additional places to cover inside organic plants. Why did I make this argument? Not to throw me into a mathematical reasoning, which has never been my passion or my strength, but to say that the program that you have in mind, compared to the reforms that must be done, has no chance of going to port and risks creating damage, for the simple reason that these organics are not filled on the basis of what we read in the budget law. This is a fundamental issue, since justice does not work because there are not enough magistrates, chancellors and assistants. I have heard the idea of setting up a neighbourhood office: frankly, Minister, I would first put the magistrates, the chancellors and also the honorary magistrates in order. We call them honorary, but they are a problem that must be solved, because they are available resources, without which we could be horrified at the thought of what awaits us in the light of the reforms made. Minister, the other issue that I want to put to your attention, because it is important, is the need for a global vision. Please, let's close the phase of interventions such as yesterday's in the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a, where we found ourselves examining, within the framework of the decree simplifications, rules on donation, which affect the right of legitimacy. You told us that you are working on the reform of the civil process and the criminal process: how do you put into a decree of urgency, aimed at simplifying, full-bodied rules on donation, which affect the living skin of people? I call on the majority to allow a different approach to this issue, given that it is a change to the civil code, leaving out what we have seen in connection with the amendment of the penal code, which we may be talking about. I do not know if it is you, the government or others who think these things; I hope you do not think it, anyway I assume that you assume a responsibility and I ask you: how do you say that we have to make a reform of a general nature aimed at introducing simplifications and then going to affect the living flesh of an average class that today thinks, everything, in terms of "survival," on the basis of family heritage and donations? I say this because the attention to systematicity is important. Attention also, in the desire to simplify, not to take, to sketches, a part of the rite of work to insert it into the ordinary rite, because I fear that, even in this case, a series of systematic problems may arise. Another issue on which I would like to address - you mentioned it yourself, Minister - concerns the so-called code of bankruptcy, hence insolvency. What should have been the most important act of the legislature or in any case the first six months of government, more important than the so-called scrambled law and many questions related to the maneuver, has passed absolutely subtone in that the Justice Commissions of the House and Senate had drowned because the examination of the measure was being carried out and the budget maneuver. Well, there are dozens of rules that need to be re-examined carefully and there is also an extension of the delegation, because the draft decree that I believe the Council of Ministers has recently adopted affects the living flesh of the people. This is an instrument that we legislators can give to ordinary people to get out of ten years of debt, because they didn't get to pay, they couldn't resolve and negotiate with the bank. In my opinion, that code - and it is more than 500 articles - needs to be monitored from the application point of view, because there was no material time to go and collect all the instances that came. Mr. Minister, I'm going to conclude because my time is up. I hope that the debate on the report on the administration of justice will be a moment that will allow at least to touch on substantial points of the Ministry's activity. Above all, I hope that you, Minister, will be able to sleep quietly at night, after presenting and having adopted a rule such as the one you call cheap sweeps, because I, frankly, have some problem of conscience about the prescription and what you have done, I would put it to you every night. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u16	Colleagues, I am pleased to inform you that a delegation of officials from the Assembly of representatives of the people of Tunisia, accompanied by Deputy Secretary-General Adel Hanchi, is here today to attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must tell you that, after hearing you on 11 July in the Commission and this morning, I would like to congratulate you, because you have the ability to speak and explain data, which are often substantial data and which cannot be denied, essentially without saying anything about what a Government of change should have done or should do in a situation such as that of justice in Italy which, as appears from your data, is absolutely precarious and difficult. I would therefore like to say straight away that I would like to congratulate you on being good at saying these things, but then it is not a consequence of giving information on what you actually want to do. I would remind you that on 11 July last, in the Commission, you said that the action of the Government of Change, in the light of the Government contract, would take place in the sense of giving a great boost to the administration of justice, having identified the shortcomings of justice, which you have brought, in particular, to the shortage of staff and to the disadministration, also resulting from inadequate structures. However, in these six months and in your report this morning nothing appears in relation to what needs to be done. Let me give you a few examples. If the difficulties of the Administration of Justice depended on the lack of staff, you had a weapon, to which you mentioned, but without explaining how you will use it: there was a competition for judicial assistants that produced a ranking of suitable, about 1837 people waiting to be included in the roles of the judicial administration. I would remind you, among other things, that, already with Minister Orlando, in May, for two hundred of these people it was decided to take part, but there is still no news. This is a serious matter. Among other things, on the occasion of the examination of the budget law, we of Brothers of Italy had tabled amendments in this regard, because we oppose this Government with an opposition not truculent but patriotic, as we have always supported, and we approve of everything that goes in the interest of our nation. Another important aspect, which you mentioned a little, is the honorary judiciary. I believe that the honorary judiciary must find a perfect solution, as you wanted in your government contract. It is not possible that we cannot find a legal and economic solution for this important audience of professionals, which renders justice in Italy. They are about five thousand people, who have been holding the administration of justice in Italy for years, because without the five thousand honorary judges the justice, already absolutely lacking, would be completely at fault. This is the second practical aspect that I want to highlight this morning and I speak only to make contributions, not to criticize the Government. We have a lot to say. You have spoken of the justice of proximity: do you really think that opening doors in some municipality or in some ten municipalities solves the problem of proximity justice, when you know very well, because you know the problem, that with the reform of the geography of the judicial important border courts have been abolished and in those places you can no longer render justice, both for the orographic situation in which they are located, and for the distances with the Town Hall? I don't care if they give information to the citizen. We need judicial geography to be revised in order to give justice to the citizens, because today, as you said very well in your introduction, in Italy there is an absolute crisis and distrust of justice because it is not being rendered, both in the civil field and in the criminal field. Instead, I believe that you have thought that propaganda about government actions is more useful than being the Minister of Justice who solves the problems of justice. I am referring to the reform of the prescription, which I realize attracts more: to say that the suspension of the prescription affects the crimes and the corrupt makes popular, but let us go carefully to consider what the reduction of the prescription means. The prescription in Italy, with the laws in force, takes place after seventeen, eighteen, nineteen or twenty years and, perhaps, as President Caliendo says, even more. If the state is not capable of running out of criminal proceedings in twenty years, but what justice are we talking about? If we do not properly structure the administration of justice and, even, give the possibility, after the judgment at first instance, to go to the Greek calends, it is clear that the sense of rejection of justice is accentuated even more. If, instead of making rules that attract popular favour, we compare ourselves with the practicalities that reduce the times of justice, I think we would do the community a favor. You then spoke very little about prisons. He spoke of 58,000-60,000 prisoners in front of 50,000 places, but prison construction, in the government's intentions, where is it? We'd like to know. We give you the opportunity, in your reply, to tell us something about prison construction, which I believe is an important factor not only to eliminate the inhuman conditions in which Italian prisoners live, but also, if it allows the inhuman conditions in which prison guards work: without structures and without the minimum vital, with very tiring shifts. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] When he tells us these things, I assure you - since we are not in opposition at all costs - we will help the Government in the concrete measures it will take in favour of justice. Up to now we have listened only to propaganda, because the competition within the Government, according to which you make majority and opposition yourself, turns into commercial measures, which do not serve justice in Italy. Brothers of Italy will present a resolution, which we are preparing, in which we ask for commitments to the Government, on prisons, on prescription, on judicial assistants, on honorary judges and on courts and on proximity justice. We ask the Government for a commitment on bilateral agreements, to ensure that the 10,000-15,000 foreign prisoners, if not more, go to serve the sentence - you said so and we agree with you - in the countries of origin. We are presenting a motion for a resolution which commits the Government to these points and if you consider some of them positively (I hope all of you) you will find us at your disposal in the new path that I hope you will take, because so far we have heard only words. Thank you, Minister, we await your reply. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u18	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this distracted Chamber I refer to the words of Mr Stancanelli, who said that in the Minister's report little has been devoted to prison matters and I will use all my minutes just to talk about prison. During 2018, coinciding with the first months of his mandate, in the field of justice, this Government has moved in a totally opposite direction to the Executives of the previous legislature, undertaking an action of substantial, blind and voluntary dismantling of all the reforms carried out and neutralizing those still being completed, hindering or even frustrating its full implementation. In some cases, such as the implementation of the delegation for the reform of the penitentiary system, the Government has overcome the scheme already drawn up by the previous Minister and the previous Government and which has already been sent to the Chambers for the prescribed opinion: we were just established in the new Parliament and in the Justice Commission, as the first act, we faced this opinion. Your Government, Minister, has adopted a new text and removed the most significant innovations, leading to a serious fall back on the issue of the guarantees of the rights of prisoners, putting into nothing the port points to which they had arrived during a very important event, which had an echo and echo not only national, that is, the general states of criminal execution, made by Minister Orlando in the last parliamentary term, and making serious and topical the risk of future European infringement procedures. On this, Minister, I await an answer in reply. You have demolished the concept of reparational justice and have done so with ideological fury, mistakenly considering it in favor of the guilty and not in favor of the offended of the crime, of the one who awaits an answer, a justice and a reparation. Unfortunately, you have to admit: what guides you is ideological fury. Yes, an ideological fury that has overwhelmed and frustrated the principle, but also the constitutional precept of the reeducational function of punishment. Mr Minister, I would like to point out to you that when the Minister of the Interior, or rather (as I have often said) the Minister of Hell, said that a citizen convicted of serious crimes must rot (yes, he said rot) in jail, he offended you and your Dicastery first of all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Attention, ladies and gentlemen: waste rots, not human beings, not people, waste! [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Malan]] Unfortunately, Minister, I have not heard any reply from you to that serious, offensive and damaging sentence of the Constitution. Unfortunately, I attended his theatre: she too began with the carnival of jackets and jackets and, unfortunately, also with the violent use of the language. In fact, you use the cheap expression, but I remind you that waste also sweeps itself away and that even a person convicted of corruption is still a citizen to whom the Constitution recognises rights. Having said that, we move to the prison sector under the last budget law (dated December 30, 2018), which brings significant cuts to the estimates of the Ministry of Justice. These, far from ensuring greater efficiency in the system of the administration of justice, reverse the positive trend strongly launched in the last parliamentary term, mainly affecting the programmes for the penitentiary administration and for civil and criminal justice. In particular, with regard to the penitentiary administration, this Government has substantially frustrated the scope of the delegation on the reform of the penitentiary order and with the budget law it has arranged another fundamental blow to the search for normative solutions that can better adapt the system to the reeducational purpose of the sentence and in particular to the identification of the treatment, according to the line indicated in Article 27 of the Constitution. Restrictive measures on alternative measures to detention will have a perverse effect on the conditions of prisoners and prisoners under conditions of particular vulnerability, with specific reference to mothers and their children. Colleagues, recently a delegation from this Senate went to Rebibbia. In this connection, Minister, I would like to refer to the budget: there is no forecast of the construction of new ICAMs (attenuated custody institute for mothers inmates), houses for inmates of mothers, but it could be an oversight of me and I hope you will reassure me. There are about sixty children present in our prisons in the company of their mothers: unfortunately, no one can keep them out of prison, because they are often children of foreign mothers without relatives in Italy - and therefore from zero to three years they find themselves living in the prison situation - coming from African countries or countries from Eastern Europe, often condemned for drug-related crimes, or Roma. Attention, because you steal their childhood nor allow them a life as children and I remind you, Minister, of the very serious event that took place in Rebibbia just a few days ago. After the tragedy of the children in prison, Minister and colleagues, I would like to stress another: suicides in prison. 2018 was the annus horribilis : the Antigone association, which I thank for its constant and continuous work, declares that the suicides were 63, in the face of 1,100 attempts, data to which it must be added another painful, terrible and disturbing, that is the four suicides of operators and prison workers. We have returned to the very sad data of the years of overcrowding, when this was higher: I remind you that 66 suicides occurred in 2010. Of all this, which concerns not only justice, but above all human rights, no one is interested in this Senate. The previous government had issued a directive on the prevention of suicides and the numbers had dropped: I now ask you what you are doing about this, Minister. My thoughts go to all those who are in the hands of the State, because when a citizen is in the hands of the State, the latter is the guarantor of his safety: I do not want to remember Cucchi, Aldovrandi and the recent events of Empoli. The prisoners are also in the hands of the State, which must ensure their safety. The emergency situation in prisons must therefore be tackled not only by intervening with a prison building plan. It is not enough, it is not enough - I also say to my colleague Stancanelli - but we must intervene on the execution of the sentence and on the alternative measures to detention, guaranteed not only by the prison police - to which our thanks go - but also by all the other operators of the reeducational phase and the external execution. I would remind you of another very serious fact, Minister, in respect of which you have not expressed any stigmatization or speech. Speaking of workers, I remind you of the grave humiliation you have inflicted on the prison police: in Trento, recently, to quell a revolt, the prefect has brought the State Police into prison, offending and marginalizing the prison police responsible for managing the order inside the prison, men and women who have the skills to do so. It was since 1969 (she was a child like me) that such a fact did not happen and her voice did not come to this. I would ask you, Mr President, to give me the rest of my speech so that it is annexed to today's report, reminding the Minister that in his reply I would also like him to give an answer to the most vulnerable people in our prisons who are homosexuals and transsexuals. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u20	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech. I've also fulfilled your desire to have more time, but I hope it's not a habit for everyone. He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report, on which I have taken some notes. I will probably not be exhaustive, because there would be a thousand things to say, but I will try to be as synthetic as possible. I greatly appreciated - and I think we all appreciated this - the Minister's words of listening and dialogue. These are important concepts that we share; on the concepts of participation and sharing we want to work to realize those paths that you have mentioned yourself and that - as you rightly mentioned - must have only one polar star, justice; not as a simple concept, not as a fetish, but as a right of citizens to be protected. You have rightly mentioned one very sad aspect: today the justice system generates an instinctive sense of mistrust in citizens. However, this must not remain a card to be placed on the door of the court. I'm a lawyer myself, I'm a civilist, and every day I go to courtrooms, and I have to deal with my clients who have very simple daily issues. I am not going to talk about big issues, but about true justice, that little justice that all citizens must be able to have every single day. We all know that the staff of the judiciary and the lawyer have excellence, as you rightly mentioned, but I would like to make a reference: if a Formula 1 champion has a car that is not working, he certainly does not win. So, then, the interventions you have mentioned for innovation and organisation are crucial, because years of spending review have not solved the problems in an overall way. We welcome rationalization, but we are careful not to rationalise legal certainty, which must remain a bastion of our legal civilization. In this regard, speaking of geography and judicial construction (you rightly referred to these issues), if the thought of judicial citadels is certainly suggestive and intriguing, even if we have been talking about it for decades, it is true that we have witnessed the indiscriminate closure - this must be emphasized - of detached court offices. The examples can be many: I come from Brianza and the detached section of Desio has been closed in its time, but also on Cuneo and on many other realities the closure has brought considerable inconveniences in the daily conduct of the procedural activity. This was done without real rationality, but simply on the basis of an economic calculation. This must be an important warning, precisely because it is necessary to safeguard those garrisons of legality that you rightly mentioned. On the point of the offices of proximity, I appreciated your call: at my forum there is already something similar regarding the voluntary jurisdiction and assistance to all those people who do not have the opportunity to address a lawyer simply to find out how to get a support administration and the necessary documentation. Those are important points, however, alone are not enough, in the sense that - in addition to the offices of proximity - we really must bring back to all the judicial offices that solemnity, that importance, that real usability that all citizens must be able to touch with hands, and not necessarily because there must be a big problem; maybe the problem is small. A client comes to me because he may need a support administration because he has his mom or dad in trouble, but he doesn't necessarily have to go to the lawyer and therefore pay the fee; the state on this front must answer first. So let us welcome interventions of this kind. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then, as a civilist, I focus more on the civil process. The reform of the civil process is one of those actions that had to be done a long time ago. Today we have to run, we have to run, and we have to do it right. On this front, we will certainly find a side, Minister, a support, a confrontation. If I have not written down badly in your report, more than 3 million are the new registration processes. I think there could be a lot more if that feeling of mistrust that we were talking about before wasn't there. This is precisely why a reform of the civil process is crucial. The direction is good on simplification, on the compressibility of the process: it is excellent. In this sense, as my teacher taught me, we must learn from others because if others do things better we must learn from them, without copying. I am thinking of other systems, perhaps even those of Anglo-Saxon origin, which have made their own legal bulwark of expedition and speed: let us also look at those examples, taking them and supporting them, however, within our order. The Italian law has made the law something very important, and we cannot ignore it. I have noted other passages, there would be many other measures to recall, but I have to make a brief mention of the intervention of justice in matters of family law. I also have a family right: care for families is an important aspect, everything about family protection is. You, Minister, have rightly referred to the Red Code; I too hope that the transposition of this protection legislation will achieve unanimity. I would also like to refer to the reform of insolvency proceedings. You rightly recalled a very important chapter of our right; I fully appreciated and shared even that little signal - which is not small - for which the word "failure" has been removed, because so many times, when a client addresses us lawyers and says that he must fail, it is not only a failure from the entrepreneurial point of view; it is a failure from the human point of view. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We must guarantee citizens, by giving honest citizens the opportunity to leave, to create their own capacity to keep themselves and their families, and if we put them to shame we will certainly never be able to do so. I do not share some of the statements made by other previous speakers: I do not see all this destroying what has been done before. On the same insolvency procedure, as you rightly pointed out, Minister, there has been nothing but a continuation of a path which has already begun in the previous parliamentary term. So, from this point of view, I do not see what has been called - forgive me - ideological fury that erases everything that has been done before. Personally, I simply see so much desire to do, and on our part - certainly on my part and on the part of the whole Group - there will be all the commitment. I recall those two words he used at the beginning of his report: listening and dialogue. With listening and dialogue you go everywhere. Everyone listens and then of course the Minister and the Government decide. By operating in this way they put all the cards on the table. Good or bad we represent the whole of society and all the various professional aspects. There are those who are lawyers, magistrates or practitioners of justice. These are important experiences that the people and citizens must be able to enjoy. From this point of view our Group will certainly support government action and will try to provide as many suggestions and as much help as possible so that the polar star I was talking about before, true justice, can be implemented both in courtrooms and on the street. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, I would first like to ask you to consider this ceremony. A report by the Minister of Justice as Minister Castelli wanted was simply a collective reflection on the judicial system, on the necessary reforms and not a list of what the Minister thinks he has done or of small references to the various laws and proposals. A balance was needed between the report, oppositions and individual Members so that they could intervene. I would ask you, therefore, to ensure that your report is distributed the day before next year and then there is a debate with plenty of room for individual Members, beyond the ten minutes of regulation, so that we can have a real debate on justice. You have said several things exactly, but you have not given any thought to certain things and you have not asked any question as to why certain facts have taken place. You correctly pointed out, for example, that the slopes of civil causes have decreased. However, the question of reasons has not been raised. Of course, in part this is due to the increase in the productivity of the magistrates, but at the same time there is a worrying fact to which you have only mentioned. Isn't the reduction in the causes due to the increase in the unified contribution? Perhaps certain people who do not have the economic capacity to endure a civil judgment turn to other justice systems in his Sicily or in my Campania and in other regions of Italy, which are systems of legitimization of criminal counterpowers that are in a position to guarantee justice when the same cannot be assured to citizens in normal conditions. Let me ask you something else. You say you want to reform the civil process with a simplified ritual. Minister, I am fine with it, but I have been a magistrate for forty years and in the first twenty years no citizen has ever complained that the foreclosures existing in the civil process, introduced in recent years to try to reduce the backwardness, had prevented the verification of the truth of the case and of the law. Today we have these complaints. I would like to understand whether the new simplified ritual gives the possibility to the citizen who does not have the means to turn to major professional studies to have a judicial assessment based on the comparison between the parties to the trial or not. You see, you always have to reason in general terms and not in individual cases. Turning to criminal matters, you talk about the prescription and you say that it is not true what some people say, namely that the time of the trial will be longer. I personally am a sufferer of the constitutional rule that provides for the reasonable duration of the trial and I must tell you that I am convinced that the prescription is not, as you said, a right to oblivion: it is simply a right of citizens, sacrosanct, in the face of the affirmation of justice! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's the prescription. It is not the denial of justice, but the opposite. Furthermore, if you say that you ensure that the processes will take place in time, then there was no need for this reform. If there had been the possibility of having structures capable of celebrating all the trials, as the Minister says, there was no need for the reform of the prescription, given that the prescription - and you know it - in 70% of the cases concerns the phase of the preliminary investigations on which even the new reforms will not affect. The reform would therefore be completely useless if there were those possibilities, but you do not have them. In fact, with regard to the increase in the number of judges you are talking about, Mrs Modena has already pointed out to you what is apparent from the budget law that has just been passed and what is apparent from the competitions that can be banned. Minister, you must take into account, when you speak of perceived corruption and refer to Eurispes, that you are the Minister of Justice: have you come to make a report to Parliament or are you still campaigning? Perceived corruption only serves to assess reality. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And you, who are the Minister, besides making an assessment of reality, must understand the effectiveness of corruption in our country. You cannot fight the perceived corruption, you can fight, through serious reforms, the real corruption in our country, which is cancer and cancer must be eradicated knowing it and having the ability to identify the reforms necessary to fight it. But we must eliminate the real corruption, not the perceived corruption. You know better than I do that some people talk about 100.00 cases or a million or what it is, but it's not true data, it's fake and you know it. And you talk to me about perceived corruption in Parliament? Excuse me, how can you not take into account the effects of corruption? You can fight corruption only by knowing its effects and Eliminate them. If it takes into account the perceived corruption we do nothing because it is not quantifiable but the aspects of corruption are not identifiable either. Always talking about criminals, you referred to suicides in prison and violence. There was a rule that had its own deterrent effect, but the old central-left government abolished it. That rule merely stated that a prisoner who commits acts of violence in prison can no longer enjoy the benefits of surrender for two years. That prohibition has been removed and put back to the judge's discretion. You know better than I that the judge's discretionary assessment does not lead to any deterrents. And you rightly mention today the increase in certain acts of violence in prisons. I said some, but we're talking about hundreds, thousands, as far as you've told us. My question, then, is this: you know better than I that the prison police, which you have previously praised, suffers four hundred episodes of violence a year by prisoners, with very serious facts. Therefore, an attempt must be made to identify a system. We invented it with the Berlusconi Government, that is to say to create 4,560 posts for prisoners, so as to have the possibility of a better living and better adapted to the constitutional norms. What happened? After that, the places created do not reach 1,000. That is the reality. I shall end with the subject of children in prison. Minister, there is no rule, an act that can justify the detention of children in prisons. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We launched an idea: never again children in prison, and we had realized it. You know better than I that there is the ICAM of Milan and there are other realities. Other solutions had to be found. It is not enough to say: let us refer to someone who will evaluate. No, the principle must be: children must not be in prison. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, it is a matter of adjusting the structures and ensuring that inmates are placed in a different place. That's the choice. I am sorry that my time is running out, but allow me, Mr President, to add just one thing. Minister, you must oppose the simplification decree: we cannot reason in terms of justice by including the most disparate rules in the first measure that comes to mind.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u23	Begin to conclude, because it is already abundantly beyond the assigned time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u24	CALIENDO (FI-BP). I have concluded, Mr President. I have not yet been able to count how many amendments to this measure concern justice. You, Minister, make sure that those matters are discussed in the relevant Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u25	I greet the Istituto Tecnico del Turismo (Technical Tourism Institute) Marco Polo in Florence. [[Applause.]] They come from Tuscany and we are happy to greet them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his report, which gives me the opportunity to speak, with his own emotion, on a subject very dear to me, that of justice, which has engaged some years of my youth as a student of law and still fills my days in the course of the profession-mission of lawyer. Yes, because I believe that taking care of justice is a real mission and as Judge Rosario Livatino said: The law, even in its objective identity and in its autonomous finalization, is made for man and not man for the law, so the same interpretation and application of the law must be operated with his spirit and not in those formal terms. I think that legal practitioners understand the meaning of these words, but the task of politics is to make them understand the citizens. And this Government of Change, which has already laid the foundations for a new way of understanding the relationship between justice, politics and citizens, is working in this very direction. My exposition will not focus on the issues of measures in itinerant, certainly appreciable and which will be consciously examined in their actual application. I would like to reiterate other points, such as the appropriations for resources just approved by the budget law; economic resources which, beyond their substance, bear witness to their attention to ensuring the administration and functioning of the judicial system and the support of civil, criminal and juvenile courts. These are important resources to complete the recruitment processes of the staff of the judicial administration in place, to cover vacancies in the judiciary, to ensure adequate levels of training of staff to improve the quality of judicial and administrative action; to raise the level of quality and functionality of buildings and services, also raising security standards and ensuring the full accessibility of judicial and penitentiary structures to persons with disabilities; to create a network of proximity offices, legal offices, to facilitate access to justice services to all, taking into account the most disadvantaged areas of the territory, penalized by the remoteness of judicial offices. Again, I recall that in a few months the reform of the penitentiary system has been definitively approved, with the introduction of important provisions to adapt the conditions of detention to the full respect of human dignity, allowing social recovery and effective control of the paths of resocialization. Particular attention is paid to health care, not only confirming the operation of the National Health Service in prisons, but ensuring the unpredicted principle of equality between prisoners and free persons in the protection of the fundamental right to health. Measures to integrate the most vulnerable, such as women and foreigners, are taken with determination in the provisions on penitentiary and work life. For women, the principle of equal access to cultural and vocational training is affirmed, and for foreigners, the teaching of the Italian language is foreseen and finally a first approach to our constitutional principles, as well as the inclusion of the staff of the administration of prisons, cultural mediators and interpreters. The role of work in penitentiary institutions is decisively strengthened, to be encouraged precisely for the purposes of re-socialisation and re-education enshrined in our Constitution. 11:58 a.m. (Follow). The attention is extended to those convicted of minors and young adults, with a new policy for child justice and a new organisation of child services in public and private communities, implementing education, vocational training and integration into the world of work within and outside prison institutions, enhancing social inclusion pathways and the implementation of European projects. The conditions for alternative detention measures are widening, including wider access to alternative community measures. Another important measure, outlined in the Ministry's policy lines, is the input given to the new code in relation to the issues of the business crisis and insolvency, in order to safeguard the entrepreneurial capacity of those who face the company's failure. It replaces, not by chance, as has already been said, the term 'failure' with the expression 'court settlement', as happens in other European countries, precisely to avoid that annoying form of social discredit, even personal, which has always been accompanied by the word 'failed'. The procedures for managing the crisis and the insolvency of the employer are harmonised, with forms of protection of the employment and income of workers. It is necessary not only to restore the company, but also to satisfy creditors. With a view to the protection and recovery of the company, alternative instruments and procedures are preferred to those of judicial enforcement. Colleagues, surely today we cannot say that we have changed the legal and judicial world, but I believe that these references to what our Government and the Ministry of Justice have already put in place are the first steps towards the right direction, which takes into account, before and beyond any measure and reform, man as a person and not as condemned, recluse or failed and rediscovers the founding principles of our Constitution. Therefore, I am sure that the political work we carry out in the field of justice has as its sole objective to ensure better human conditions for all, without any longer the perennial conflict between the government of men and the government of laws, because human dignity cannot escape the law, but it is within it and must guide the legal system. The key word of our policy and above all of the actions of the Ministry of Justice, to bring that epochal change of paradigm, reducing the excesses and referees of power, is precisely human dignity, which each of us is called to remember to have for himself, but above all to be able to truly respect the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u27	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, No 2, No 3 by Senator Bernini and other senators, No 4, No 4 by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and No 5 by Senator Grasso and other senators, whose texts are distributed, have been tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. I call on the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, to reply, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u28	Mr President, before passing the floor for individual opinions to the Undersecretary of Ferraresi, I wanted to concentrate on collecting the many requests made by all the senators, whom I thank for their contribution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Wherever I can answer, I will reply now; where possible, I will do so with the actions of the Government and my Ministry during this year. I apologize if I don't respond to all the stress. I would like to start with those who, like Senator Grasso, pointed out the slowness of processes still at a very important level. Several interventions, including that of Senator Pellegrini, have signalled this dramatic situation; Senator Stancanelli said that I would list the many existing problems, but I would not have indicated a precise solution to these problems. Now, I want to clarify one point, which in my opinion is always important to have as a polar star in any action we take within the institutions: I am referring to the duty and honour of always telling the truth. I owe the truth not only to you, but to all Italian citizens. And the truth is that our justice is in dramatic conditions: if I said something different, it would be a mockery. If I were to say today that in seven months of government I have found solutions to all the problems of justice, you should offend me and send me to that country, because at that moment I would simply have mocked you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are problems and there are many. However, I can say that, for the first time, these problems find a Government which, on the one hand, responds where it can immediately, in the face of emergencies and emergencies, and on the other hand lays the foundations for a change that must be gradual, but that in fact must be structured and based on solid foundations. That is what we have done in seven months. Senator Valente told me that I wouldn't talk about emergencies and emergencies about Bari. In fact, my reasoning was related to the speech about the failure to appoint a commissioner, because there is no doubt that the situation in Bari, where - I remind myself - justice was ended in the tents, was an emergency situation. That situation of urgency, however, was not addressed with the culture of emergency, that is, with the usual appointment of a superman, the Commissioner, who sent there, by way of derogation from all the laws, would have had to resolve the situation. We have put a point to this kind of approach. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is there an emergency? The Government assumes its responsibilities and issues a decree-law, which by Constitution faces emergencies (we would miss). With that decree-law Bari's justice was removed from the tents and, in place of these, it was momentarily brought into two structures. Then, over five months, there was a stable situation. I would like to say that this is a time that can be considered record in the history of interventions and solutions implemented by a government in such drastic situations. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I do not recall any Commissioner who in five months managed to arrive at a stable, not definitive, solution to a problem. I shall now turn to the subject of the problems which are still open. Senator Stancanelli, I'm sure there are problems and they're open. You referred to the only two problems on which I could not answer now, because I intend to give it over the next two months, given the establishment of a very important table of intercourse and confrontation with the honorary judiciary, which represents a pillar of Italian justice. A close discussion is under way in order to lead to legislation that can safeguard the service that the honorary judiciary offers, finally in a logic - as far as possible - of stabilization. The same, as stated in the report, as regards the ranking of suitable judicial assistants: I am fully aware that there are important expectations. To those interested I have replied several times that I do not want to promise anything in terms of data and details. I have already said that there will be a sliding of the ranking, with times and methods that I reserve to communicate also over the next two months, because the first urgency before everyone's eyes was to intervene in order to have new resources in the field of justice. These new resources had to be implemented immediately. I am pleased that Senator Pellegrini has highlighted the important wounds in judicial geography (and it is true), but we had the priority need to intervene first on the issue of recruitment. We intervened with assumptions that this country has never seen: I don't know how to deny this fact. I've heard about a government that doesn't give the answers and doesn't tell us how much it spends. I have said so many times and I repeat this: the whole of the money that has been invested in justice is estimated at about EUR 500 million. The recruitments, on which Senator Modena also raised some concerns, are before everyone's eyes. In fact, we will first of all cover the entire staff of the judiciary, but we are convinced that justice must require an extra commitment. We have predicted that over the three years there will be 600 more magistrates than the organic plant (that is, in addition to the saturation of the organic plant, there will be 600 more magistrates) and 3,000 more administrative staff, as well as all the other recruitments I have already mentioned. The situation in prisons was then discussed. In this context, 1,200 prison police officers are only expected to be employed in 2019. We can see the prospects differently - someone will agree and someone else won't, we would miss them - but we cannot deny objective data. You can't deny the truth. The truth is that the last budget law was a step towards a new culture of justice: a new way of conceiving justice as a priority of a government in the interests of citizens. This is not only unequivocal, but also concrete, objective and included, with letters and numbers, in the budget law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I would also like to stress the reference, which has been made more or less by everyone, to dialogue, listening and comparison. Senator Valente rightly stressed the legislative issue of the prescription amendment. I do not doubt the fact that in these first months of government there have been times when the government has had to speed up, but we were faced with urgency: urgency in the face of which the country no longer had time. Because there is no longer time in front of a 30% of citizens who have renounced in the last two years to ask for justice because they do not trust justice. This is a fundamental fact. This is the starting point! As I said, my hope is that, first of all, the first important confrontation horizon will be the reforms of the civil process and of the criminal process, where precisely the instrument of the delegation law will give Parliament the opportunity to express itself and to have a confrontation within the time required. We must admit, however, that in the first six months there have been urgent situations in which the country could no longer wait. We assume responsibility for identifying the priorities that were to be brought to Parliament's attention immediately, although we want to stress that, in any case, the anti-corruption law (the so-called 'corruption sweep') was adopted following three readings in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u29	Minister, thank you for this timely reflection, but I should like to ask you to be a little more concise, so that the House can respect the timing of its work. At 1 p.m., in fact, committees are convened for the examination of the decree-law simplifications. Therefore, considering that the Offices warn me that the time at your disposal is already over, I kindly ask you to operate a slight contraction in the time of the answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u30	Mr President, I shall try to sum up the reply as much as possible and conclude it within five minutes. With regard to the so-called bankruptcy law and the request for monitoring, it is precisely the vacacy legislation provided for in that legislation which, being very long, will give the possibility to monitor the effects and the possible correctives to be made. Senator Valente, regarding the arrest of Battisti, to which I hope will follow arrests, captures and surrenders to the Italian justice of other terrorists (and we are committing ourselves to this) I would like to say that I respect everyone's opinion. However, I believe that, in the face of a terrorist sentenced to life imprisonment who for almost forty years has escaped from Italian justice, the presence of the State that tells the world that no one can escape from Italian justice is necessary, always respecting the dignity of everyone and the difference of opinion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] To conclude, I would like to say that with regard to the reforms of the civil process and the criminal process, on which many people have made more precise demands, the law of delegation will come. The aim is not to distort the right but to intervene where it is clear that there are delays that citizens no longer understand. Before concluding by talking about the anti-corruption law, I would like to reply with pride to Senator Grasso, who spoke about the Palermo Convention, which was wanted by Falcone, and the need to implement it. On this point, I would like to say that the commitment has already been made because, as you well know, in recent months, after my speech in Vienna, the Convention has had, thanks to the Italian commitment, an additional step in application that will enable us to better verify which countries will actually be able to adapt and comply with this instrument, which was wanted by Falcone. Believe me if I tell you that there is no morning when, entering the Ministry of Justice and finding myself in front of the plaque dedicated to John Falcone, on the stairs leading to my office, I do not stop even a moment to reflect on the importance of the memory of his message and of his action and the necessity that we are all called to have to continue in that message and in that action. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] As regards the anti-corruption law and the prescription, a lot has been said. Senator Cirinna rebuked me in some way for the use of the term "strazzacorrotti", which I claim. Abroad the law has been renamed bribe dextroyer act: a law that destroys the bribes. We begin to have a terminology that can give a message of clarity about the struggle of the State against a phenomenon like corruption, on which someone - Senator Caliendo, if I remember correctly - asked me to quote the data. Gentlemen Senators, I can quote all the data of the corruption you want but we must not hide that corruption does not need to be told in Italy. Corruption in Italy is seen with the naked eye [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : Every time we see a part of the country impoverishing itself of businesses that run abroad there is often a phenomenon of corruption that discourages investment. Every time we talk about kids who go abroad because they don't find meritocracy anymore, we talk about corruption there. Every time a hospital or school collapses due to an earthquake, it is often discovered that behind that collapse there is not only natural calamity but a bribe that has brought savings on the materials used. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then, Senator Valente, I don't know if it's right what you say, that we had to act more on prevention than repression. I'm sorry you didn't do that when you were in the government, acting with a simple law leading to repression. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). But what? BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Let me say that, however, the anti-corruption law carries out instruments that also act on prevention. [[Comments of Senator Valente]] , giving tools to the judicial authority to prevent corruption and carry out investigations. FARAONE (PD). Time! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Senator, I'm not just stretching out. I'm extending to respect the senators who asked for precise answers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, finish. BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. I conclude and I am sorry for Senator Cirinna, for the questions she had asked about the prison building, on which I would have been pleased to answer. Senator Modena - I think - asked me if I sleep at night thinking about anti-corruption. Actually, if my sleep isn't really peaceful, it's simply because I think of all those who have been victims of corruption and all those who are victims of crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's why in the morning, when I wake up, I think about what we have to do to try to return the country to a concept of legality that sees it in a position of leadership at international level, because our judiciary, our fight against corruption, terrorism and organised crime is an excellence at international level. Of this we must go proudly and proudly say that when I go to international fora I never fail to emphasize that we, as a country, have decided to treasure a dramatic past. From that past we have drawn cutting-edge standards and for this reason we are proud to be Italian and to be an international leader in legality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u31	I call Mr Ferraresi to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u32	Mr President, on motion for a resolution No 1, the opinion is against the premises and, as regards the operative part, in favour of points 1), (2) and (3) with the following rewording to replace the words to be avoided to be "serious" by the following: "Realising reform measures." The opinion was opposed to points 4 and 5 and was in favour of point 6). The opinion on motion for a resolution No 2 is in favour. On the motion for a resolution No 3 I am opposed to the premises. With regard to the operative part of point 1, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to assess the adoption of measures governing judicial-political relations, regulating the relocation of magistrates once political activity has ceased." On point 2, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to assess the need for a review of judicial districts in order to improve the efficiency of the individual judicial offices and the system as a whole." On point 3) the opinion supports the following rewording: "to take all necessary steps to ensure the effective constitutional function of penalties." In point 4, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to ensure sobriety and continence of communication by those in public office in the administration of justice." In point 5, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to enhance the contribution of the honorary judiciary." The opinion was opposed to point 6. On point 7), the opinion was in favour of the following rewording:...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u35	VALENT (PD). Mr President, when did we decide to vote separately?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u36	The Secretary is expressing his views, and we will then, if necessary, decide on a split vote. [[Protests of Senators Mirabelli and Valente]] The Minister is expressing his views on the points of the motions for resolutions. If the rewordings are accepted, I will ask the House if it agrees to proceed with a split vote. At this stage we are expressing our views on the side of the Undersecretary, please allow it to be concluded. You're welcome, Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u37	On point 7), the opinion was in favour of the following full replacement rewording: More attention should be paid to legislation that avoids the adoption of blank rules. The opinion was opposed to points 8 and 9. In point 10) the opinion supports a rewording aimed at adding, after the words'serious and concrete', the words 'especially in the field of penitentiary housing'. On point 11), the opinion was in favour of the following rewording, with a view to including at the outset, the words: "to assess the need for... On the motion for a resolution No 4, I am opposed to the premises. With regard to the operative part, the opinion is in favour of point 1; in point 2, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to ensure a quantitative and qualitative improvement of prison structures in the national territory, both through the implementation of existing structures and through the construction of new ones." On point 3 the opinion was in favour. In point 4, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to take every initiative to complete and adapt our legislation to European legislation on the protection of victims of the crime". On points 5, 6 and 7, I voted in favour. In point 8, I am in favour of the following rewording: "to enhance the contribution of the honorary judiciary." On point 9), I am in favour, provided that the text is revised as follows: "to verify the adequacy of judicial geography also in relation to the legislative changes adopted or to the study". On point 10, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded to this effect: after the words "to take initiatives" it is requested to add "in compliance with and within the limits of the provisions of the Budget Act." On point 11), the opinion is also in favour of the following rewording: "to support, as far as its competence is concerned, the final adoption of the Law on self-defense". On points 12, 13 and 16, the favourable opinion was opposed to points 14 and 15).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u38	What is your opinion on motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators? Mr Ferraresi, State Secretary for Justice. I am opposed to the premises, while the opinion is in favour of points (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (7) of the operative part. In point 6, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows: "to assess the need to review the matter" without prejudice to the remaining part. In point 8, the opinion is also in favour if reworded by including at the beginning the words: On point 9), the opinion is in favour if the words "concrete acts" are replaced by the word "initiatives".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u41	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to understand what the Secretary's statement leads to: if there is a Government proposal to build a joint motion for a resolution, we must take time. Or do we have to rewrite them all? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. MIRABELLI (PD). No opinion was given on any motion for a resolution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The opinion was given on the individual points of the motions for resolutions. MIRABELLI (PD). I'm sorry, Mr. President, but you've never seen it. I have not understood what the Undersecretary has done on the various motions for resolutions. Are you asking us to change them?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u42	If we accept the rewording, there will be a favourable position on the motions for resolutions, which will be put to the vote in accordance with the Presidency's request. MIRABELLI (PD). I'm sorry, Mr. President, but that's not even true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you ask me a question, you have to give me the opportunity to answer it. Otherwise, if you keep asking me questions, I won't finish the answer. MIRABELLI (PD). Please, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When we vote, I will ask the Groups whether they accept the rewordings and intend to proceed with separate votes. If the proposals for reformulation are not accepted, the entire motion for a resolution will be put to the vote, if necessary against it by the Government. Otherwise, as mentioned above, separate votes will be taken on the basis of the reformulation proposals accepted with a favourable opinion. I don't think there's much confusion. MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, that is not the case. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. How is that not so? MIRABELLI (PD). I would like to point out to you that on almost all the premises of the motions for resolutions it has been expressed against them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, I followed. MIRABELLI (PD). So what does that mean? If we accept the amendments, is the motion for a resolution voted despite the fact that there is no agreement on the premise? PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, the motion for a resolution will be voted on by separate parties with the Government's opposite opinion on the premises. Each group voting for separate parties will decide whether to express itself contrary to the premises and whether or not to accept the rewordings. MIRABELLI (PD). I would stress that this is something that has never been seen in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As you know, Senator Mirabelli, I've confronted the offices, so I'm not talking about personal ideas. MIRABELLI (PD). I repeat that this is a procedure that has never been seen in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I compare myself, I follow the Rules of Procedure and I give the answers on the basis of the work of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u45	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I too have to say that I have difficulty in making an explanation of vote on motions for resolutions whose text has just been distributed. However, while the Minister is here, I am addressing him. I agree with you, Minister, that one of the great problems of Italian justice is the duration of the trials. The proper functioning of justice and the timing of a state issuing a judgment represent substantial elements of the quality of democracy. As has already been said, Italy has half of the judges of Germany, the structures are inadequate, as the case of the Bari court reminds us, and the prisons are overcrowded. Investment in structures, the strengthening of administrative staff and the new recruitment of magistrates is therefore good. Another cause, as you yourself point out, is linked to the very nature of the proceedings: too great is the role played by formalisms, exceptions and flaws of form used mainly in the criminal process as a defence tool. This formalism, detached from the substance, is one of the most serious problems of the Italian system. I am pleased, then, to hear that the aim is to simplify procedures. In this respect, let us welcome the reform of the civil trial that you have proposed, with a streamlined rite and the strengthening of the role of the judge. I also agree with the idea of abolishing summons to replace them with appeals, provided that judges are obliged to set hearings within a certain period of time. Some of his predecessors have tried to solve these problems with major reforms, but in some cases they have even aggravated the problems. That is why I appreciated your words in the Commission in the course of the illustration of the policy lines of your Dicastery, when you announced a policy of small steps, precisely so as not to make these mistakes and not to force the justice system to yet another twist. In short, Minister, a good theory, which, however, is very different from the practice of these months. Up to now you have not strengthened the role of the judge, but you have produced rules that limit his discretion and foreshadow them as true rules-judgment. The most striking case is the self-defense with the amendment of Article 52 of the penal code, but the same is true with the security decree, with the narrowing of cases of humanitarian protection for foreigners, because, in your opinion, the judges had applied it too often. Another feature of yours so far has been the lightness with which you have handled fundamental legal principles. With the introduction of a rule, the one on the revocation of citizenship, you violate a fundamental principle of our order as the equality of all citizens before the law. You have also done so with the introduction of the law on the undercover agent, which, on the other hand, resembles too much that of the provocative agent, a figure that instead of helping the justice to identify the crimes, pushes the citizens to commit them. And you did so with the rule on the non-penalty of the corrupt who denounces a case of corruption. The repentants in Italy have been very important for some trials, but it is also true that repentance has been used by some to mislead investigations and to make others fall on their own responsibilities, leading to situations of real judicial persecution. So, everything seems to me except a policy of prudence and small steps. On the other hand, it seems to me to be a policy that is the result of a precise ideology, the same one that leads to the nefarious decree - already the name says all - to insert rules on parties, as if it were intended to insinuate a correlation between politics and corruption. In the name of this ideological vision you have introduced the suspension of the prescription, but without first an intervention to speed up the processes. This will probably further undermine the principle of the right duration of the process. Minister, during your hearing in the Justice Commission, you used three key words: listening, confrontation and cooperation. I wonder where they ended up, when the criminals protested about the prescription; when authoritative voices arose about the criticalities of the security decree and the law on self-defense. And where remains his constructive confrontation with the opposition, when then he says that the will of the people passes through the vows of trust? A few days ago we saw a video of him on Facebook performing a fugitive like a hunting trophy. It is a video that gives the idea of a state more interested in revenge than in seeking justice. Unfortunately, that video is not an error of communication but reflects the picture of the measures of these months: very useful measures on the ground of spectacularization and propaganda, but poorly effective on the ground of a justice that tries to give just and rapid answers to the citizens and that guarantees the certainty of the penalty. It is the judicial declination of populism. A justice that we do not like, because it looks with suspicion to the citizens, because it does not believe in the rehabilitation potential of the sentence, because it badly bears the idea that to write the sentences are the judges and because it responds not to the problems but to the emotional needs of a certain public opinion. A justice that - I fear - will make the problems of our system even more serious. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u48	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Bonafede, as I have been able to argue in the course of the debate, I find that the Government's intentions, expressed by the Minister in his report, will unfortunately not resolve the endemic problems of our country's justice system in a short time. The numbers with which I have described these problems show, however, the urgency of having to intervene immediately. The judicial system, as is well known, permeates the life of the State even before its citizens. In fact, civil, social and economic relations look to justice as their authentic form of guarantee and, on the other hand, the functioning of the judicial machine conditions the way of living the aforementioned relationships and, where legal certainty is lacking, a community cannot certainly prosper. How, in fact, can an investor be required to do business in Italy when this entails enormous costs, often due to cumbersome and incomprehensible procedures? How can we ask citizens to believe in justice and to respect laws when they are not sure that doing so corresponds to seeing their rights protected? From the same data you have reported, Minister, there is a lack of confidence in justice. The decrease in the registration of proceedings, especially in the areas of work, pre-falliary proceedings and debt recovery, in short, the decline in pending proceedings is not a positive fact, as you yourself mentioned, but is related to the reduction in the demand for justice for almost all matters. It is not acceptable for the trials to be lived as a Dante group and to be sued!The arrogant threat increasingly frequent by debtors to oppose the claim of rights. It is not a mystery that our country is afflicted by this disease, and that we cannot continue to propose, as you have recently done with the reform of the prescription - just to mention the last and most resounding case - normative interventions spot, which do not produce structural effects on the entire architecture of the system, which needs, in fact, an overall reform. There are many factors that contribute to determining this state of affairs. Knowing the reasons for the problems is an essential prerequisite for solving them. With your words, Minister, you seem to admit that this Government is not only not capable of producing credible solutions, but is also lacking in terms of critical analysis. Among the priorities, Minister, I would like to remind you of the issues relating to prison building and the work of prisoners, both intramural and external, the only way - it has been established by several studies - to reduce the relapse and return to the crime: therefore, that re-educational function of the penalty that is the basis of our Constitution. I would also like to remind you, Minister, of the honorary judiciary: I have not heard in your report any mention of this now indispensable component of the administration of justice, which we can now call a precarious in the judiciary, not only by definition but also by treatment. Maybe it's time to review the whole system. Minister, I urge you not to neglect the new emergency of the judicial health system reserved for the psychiatric patient who is a criminal. The closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals, without the adequate provision of residences for the execution of security measures (REMS) by the Regions, has created a new category, that of prisoners who are held untitled in prison structures due to the lack of the necessary places identified by law. Finally, the issue of freedom of the press and, in particular, the rules on defamation and reckless lawsuits call for urgent legislative action, already launched in the last parliamentary term, which must be taken up in the present. The functioning of the justice system cannot and must not be sacrificed on the altar of begas and crossed vetoes between League and Movimento 5 Stars, as it is bitterly successful with the scrambled bill. It would be very serious, indeed, if the roboating intentions with which you fill your statements daily did not translate into useful and well-written reforms. Much of the future of our country passes from the ability of the institutions to restore to the citizens the full trust in the State. Unfortunately, we must note that you do not yet have that prospect. That is why the vote of Free and Equal can only be against the resolution tabled by the majority. I note, however, that almost all of the comments we have made to Parliament and the Government through our motion for a resolution have been accepted, and that we believe that there is still time and way to do good, we welcome the proposed reformulations. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u49	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Science High School (Renato Caccioppoli) in Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u52	Balboni (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister in reply reiterated that the government was entitled to the so-called anti-corruption law and justified the inclusion of the prescription reform by defining it as one of the main necessities to which the Minister, his Government and the majority considered it necessary and indivisible to respond. Well, Minister, you are well aware that the effects on the corruption of the prescription reform will begin to be seen in our order, to be optimistic, since 2035. You know this better than I do because, under existing legislation and with the suspension already planned, until 2035 however no crime of corruption would have been prescribed, in the face of urgency! Perhaps it would have been better to focus on what you have also defined as one of your objectives, namely finally to ensure that the justice system has the necessary staff, staff, instruments and resources, also because, Minister, you know very well that 75% of the criminal proceedings have no effect on the reform you have done. You yourself said that only 25% of criminal proceedings are required on appeal and that all others are required to be investigated or, at most, at first instance and therefore this reform on those proceedings has no effect. As we know, the reform only comes from the judgment of first instance whether it be of acquittal or of condemnation. Minister, you know better than I that 50% of all prescriptions occur in four judicial offices: Rome, Naples, Turin and Venice. Instead of making an absolutely propagandistic rule that will begin to have effect from 2035, perhaps it would have been better then to concentrate on these four judicial offices, because simply by solving the problems of these you would have halved the total number of prescriptions. Mr Minister, what I most regret about your words is that you have defined the reform of the statute of limitations as a means of dealing with the dilatory maneuvers of the defendants' lawyers. Well, Minister, what you call dilatory maneuvers are legitimate exercises of constitutional rights. This is the difference between his way of conceiving justice and ours. As if you did not know that every time you ask for a postponement, the criminal procedure code already today provides for the suspension of the limitation. But you yourself, obviously, do not believe what you say in fact says (and we know that it will not be so) that the times will not be delayed indefinitely, that the trials will not be postponed sine die, especially on appeal, and that you will put in place all the useful and necessary actions to ensure that the very heavy sentences that today the Italian State must pay for the effect of the Pinto law no longer occur. And then I wonder - as Mr Caliendo also pointed out earlier - that there was a need to reform the statute of limitations. From here to 2035 it would have been enough to do what you said was in your government's program. And it is very dangerous for you to send out the message because you said you had abolished corruption thanks also to the prescription reform. A wrong message that public opinion could perceive in an absolutely wrong way. How wrong it is, Minister, to have introduced the undercover agent also for the fight against corruption. We agree on the undercover agent. The fact is that this is not so. What you have introduced is a real provocative agent because the law even provides that he can commit prodromic or instrumental activities and even that he can offer money to the public officer to test his honesty. This does not mean investigating to discover crimes, but rather provoking crimes, and you know better than I that this is an unconstitutional rule that will eventually get the opposite effect because it will lead to the annulment of many and many trials whose evidence will be declared null and inadmissible. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Once again the intentions are denied by the measures you put in place. And again, as far as prisons are concerned, you said in July that you would make sure that foreign prisoners went to serve their sentences in the countries of origin. Well, we delete the rule that the convict's consent is necessary to be transferred. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Let's take it off and send it to his house. This would free huge resources that could be allocated to prison police officers who work under absolutely poor conditions, heroic personnel who sacrifice themselves every day to ensure the safety of the citizens, left in oblivion. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] So we send foreign prisoners to their homes without asking for their consent and invest those resources for prison construction and prison personnel. Again, you have spoken, Minister, of regulatory hypertrophy with regard to the reform of the civil process. We know how much slow justice, expensive justice and justice cost the Italian economy, which never comes to an end, which is ineffective. Well, the excessive number of reforms in the civil process has certainly affected this slowness. And yet, Minister, how can one think that the problem can be solved by changing the name of the citation and making it an appeal? How can we imagine, as we see in the drafts that are circulating of the interventions that the Government has in mind to do in the matter of civil trial, that adding another rite, that for the monocratic judge, can be a solution? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate that the majority and that the Government have accepted many of our recommendations. However, for the reasons I have said and for many others that I could mention, we cannot vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]] FAZZOLARI (FdI). If the minister has finished chatting, he can listen to us. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u53	Could you make an even more polite request, please? I was going to read your motions for resolutions. Senator Balboni just finished his surgery. Minister, if you would kindly pay attention to the speeches, I would be grateful. If you, Senator Giarrusso, do not disturb the Minister, I am also grateful to you. [[Senator Fazzolari's comments.]] I feel like I've called both the senator and the minister back, so I think we can move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u56	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the report that has been carried out today confirms, where necessary, the absolute inability to manage a sensitive area such as justice. Today I have heard that there has been a transversal dialogue and listening to all sides, but I must say that, if so, something has eluded us or perhaps there really are hearing problems. Let us look at the hearings held so far in the Justice Commission: well, those hearings have never been taken into account. I remember - we have said this a thousand times here - what we said about the hearings on self-defense. In fact, that law is exactly the opposite of what all the audit bodies in the Commission have said. If this is the way to listen, obviously there is some problem. Moreover, it is useless to give sterile figures and petition in principle saying: "we are hiring", "we are doing competitions", "we are strengthening the field of justice", "we are strengthening the field of justice." It is not true, because some references that have been made today concern competitions that had been so banned and carried out after the taking over of this Government, but they were all procedures initiated by the previous Government. New recruitment is also a result of earlier competitive procedures. And again, the confusion emerges very clearly when, in the motion for a resolution No 2 of the majority, it is said that the report on the administration of justice presented today is adopted, except then to accept all the suggestions contained in all the motions for resolutions. And then the justice system is not good at all; the justice system has gaps that need to be addressed and the ruler of the justice system has not noticed the state in which the system itself is. It gives me the impression - I have repeated it many times - that the Ministry is moving in these months of government with a single objective (which has been denied today by a colleague whom I esteem and appreciate), that is, that it responds to a very demagogic idea: to destroy what had been done in the previous legislature. This perhaps to subvert the objective of bringing Italy up to date with European times and directives, and also to avoid those infringement procedures that had been opened (some closed due to the action of the previous government). Instead, I am sure that, going at this rate, something will soon be spilled on us and we should obviously face it. Think of the situation in prisons, which certainly does not have very good prospects. To see, the action that the Ministry and this Government are carrying out, which is always announced with proclamations and triumphalist attitudes, sometimes laughable - someone has already said - and that other very inappropriate, is always aimed at destroying that good system that had been started earlier that had allowed, even in the system of criminal executions, the appreciation clearly and clearly on the part of Europe. We are taking clear steps backwards in this matter. One wonders whether there are ideological reasons or perhaps there is a very little knowledge of the real problems that gravitate around the justice system. It is not by chance the position of the operators. You said you spoke to the magistrates, the lawyers and all the justice workers, but it happens that lawyers are on strike once every fifteen days: once it is the criminal chambers, once the National Forensic Council (CNF) and once the lawyers of the individual holes. They are constantly on strike against the measures that are proposed in this House, without any possibility of dialogue and confrontation, because we have a majority that remains silent and passively accepts the rules and dictation of the Government [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which does not even allow the Commission to raise its head in the slightest. I am convinced that many of my colleagues, to whom I repeat appreciation and esteem, are prepared people, but they cannot open their mouths, because the government forbids them: this is the truth. Some problems, then, exist in the management of the judicial system. I want to believe that the Minister is aware of the malaise widespread among all those involved in the justice sector. Think again of the honorary judiciary, which has been called back several times. These operators are also in a state of perennial agitation and the role they actually play is not recognized. Beware that, as I have said a thousand times, it has been a pathology of the central administration that has led some of these magistrates to be still working in this field for more than twenty years: in fact, I know someone who has been an honorary magistrate for twenty-six years. This is a pathology which we, the political class, have created, but which the political class itself must at last remedy. However, I do not think that there is any will, apart from petitions of principle, on the part of anyone in the Government. Another classic sign of the really very superficial way in which we deal with the problems is that of the Bari court. We are pleased that the Bari court no longer has to work in the tents and that it ended up in an apartment. But this is not how justice is administered. Justice needs serious and true times and then we try to leave immediately. It is not enough to find a hole in which to work those who, with great sacrifice, stand up the judicial system. We find a solution, without being afraid of possibly the appointment of the commissioner, because - be careful - also that abnormal measure of extension and detention of two months of the prescription, which we have approved, has only increased the duration of the trial and overturned it on the defendants; secondly, it ended with the increase of the workload of those operators, who, as I said, with a great spirit of sacrifice, every day - magistrates, honorary magistrates and lawyers - hold this system. I remember once a court judge told me that the day one of the justice workers puts the code under his arm, this system will stop. If this does not happen it is thanks to the common sense of all the operators, but let us help them and use the means available to us. Let us not stop at mere petitions of principle. There was not only the abnormal provision on the Bari court, but there are many others, which are already producing catastrophic effects, which make a pair with government action in any other area, which is causing a relegation in all fields: think about the economy, work and security. Think, for example, of the so-called security decree, which has blocked the right of defence and has unreasonablely significantly prejudiced the individual's personal freedom. Think of what the majority have pompously called corrupt sweeping decree, with unnecessary tightening of penalties for crimes against public administration and which has further narrowed the guarantees of defense, with blatant violation of constitutional principles. We will talk later about the effects that will occur in the system regulated by law, which Mr Balboni also mentioned earlier. Think of the new system of ancillary penalties, the introduction of the provocative agent, which in an absolutely naive way has been clumsily defined as an undercover agent. Think also of the modification of the discipline of the prescription, which will produce a disproportionate lengthening of the processes. These are demagogic measures, which demonstrate, once again, the absolute lack of knowledge of the real state of the justice system in this country. But, even in this case, the majority have suffered these measures in silence and without any possibility of raising their heads. Pre-arranged measures are "disappeared," denying any possibility of dialogue, beyond the listening capacity that has been established here. A final remark concerns the budget law, which has been adopted hastily and without even having had the opportunity to read it. It is serious that the majority have bent on accepting such a thing, except that we are being told that substantial resources are being allocated to the justice system. That's not true. That's not true. Strangely, all hirings have been blocked (I have already said before by whom those recruitment procedures had been initiated); we have the hirings blocked until November 2019 and a number of problems that remain unresolved, such as that of judicial building and penitentiary building. They are unresolved: beyond petitions, there is nothing concrete, because money is needed, that this Government is not making available to the system. On the contrary, in many cases there has been a serious reduction in resources. Staff are not enough: think, for example, of what will cause the introduction of the so-called 100 quota. How many people will retire in the judicial system and not be replaced, why are the hirings stopped? With this judicial system, already vexed by the chronic shortage of staff, we will still find ourselves at the paralysis of many offices. In short, in the matter of justice the activity of the Government is clearly characterized by the very little knowledge of the real problems and, above all, by the inability to face them and to resolve them. At this point, all I have to say is that I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Democratic Party. I am not in a position to say anything about the other motions for resolutions, because I have not quite understood them (there has been a moment of confusion, which I believe has been shared by everyone); so we will evaluate once they are put to the vote. For our part, the only thing I say is that we will vote in favour of the Democratic Party's motion for a resolution and that we will vote against the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority, which is absolutely devoid of any content. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u59	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, we have listened carefully to your report. The fact that you have acknowledged in your replies - your words - that our justice is in dramatic conditions has moved within us an awareness: finally a Minister of Justice who has the courage to say how things really are. We thank you for that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The logical consequence of this consideration - which unfortunately, alas, we share - is that this majority of government has an extremely important responsibility in the area of justice. The latter responds to the primary needs of citizens, but I would say human beings. We do not need to bother Foscolo, with weddings and courts and are, to remind us that we are the country cradle of law (the 12 tables are 2,500 years old); and, as a cradle of law, we certainly do not want to become its coffin. I then believe that the government has taken the right path, that of a change of anthropological nature. We come from a season when the victims were treated by culprits and the culprits by victims; we come from a season in which reforms of justice of a fucking epochal nature were attempted, which in reality became mice normally at zero cost. We must finally begin to approach justice with a proper anthropological vision. We can no longer afford justice that suits everyone and ends up giving no more justice to anyone. We can no longer afford justice which must serve lawyers, magistrates or legal practitioners: justice must be at the service of the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This anthropological reversal passes through a very clear feeling that is precisely of all our citizens: from the old man cheated and mugged, to the battered child to the kindergarten, to the little girl forced to marry a man much older than her, to the banal quarrel of condominium, which also is able to move in the souls of people suffering even very deep. Minister, we share the prospect with you and start with a principle that, as far as criminal law is concerned, says: surely humanity is recovery towards the wrongdoer, but the wrongdoer pays. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In civil law there are those who are wrong and those who are right. On the subject which you, Minister, have dealt with, we recognize in particular the problem of the slowness of justice. Offering speed of response must be the primary requirement of government action and we share this will with you, just as we share the need for preparation so that justice is not only quick, but also efficient and of great quality. This could, for example, also go through multidisciplinary preparation, with joint training between the lawyer, the judiciary and other legal practitioners, so that the same language is spoken and the same prospects are shared. Of course, justice must be close and I thank you, Minister, for mentioning this item in your speech, which we have obviously shared in a very concrete way. As has been said - you yourself have had the honesty to acknowledge this - it is a path, in which we want to support and support it, so that it is easier and easier for the citizen to use judicial offices. I must say that I personally very much liked the reference to the solemnity and authority of the places where justice is administered, because for the citizen to see the iuris say in a suitable and solemn place, which recalls the ultramillennial traditions of our country is something different from seeing the justice administered in a basement. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it difficult to continue and I do not want to scream.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u60	Senator Pillon, I can invite the House to a greater silence. Usually the tone of voice must be increased even more in order to be heard, but I invite everyone to silence out of respect for his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u61	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President, I will raise my voice. As regards the civil process and the reform you have mentioned, I would like to assure you that the League Group in the Senate is ready to work with you and to make its full contribution so that the reform is as broad and shared as possible and meets the needs of our citizens. Similarly, as far as the criminal trial is concerned, we are absolutely convinced of the need to find a contemporaneous balance between the need for certainty of the sentence and the reasonable duration of the trial, both constitutional principles that are unavoidable. We are also convinced of the expiatory function of the sentence. In fact, it is true that the penalty has a reeducational function, but it has a thousand other functions, including the expiative one. In this regard, I am very pleased to underline the success, which you also mentioned, represented by the return to Italy of the international terrorist Cesare Battisti. With regard to the attitude of the Lega Group, we were very pleased that Ministers of the Republic went to the airport to show the presence of the State which, finally, after years of teasing, was able to do justice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also remind you - but there is no need - of other legislative measures which are being examined. I am referring to the one on self-defense, whose examination is coming to an end in the Chamber of Deputies, and to the reform of the abbreviated rite, whose process is in advanced state, aimed at allowing no longer any penalty discounts in favour of those who have committed heinous crimes. These penalty discounts cannot be automatic. I also remind you of the reform of family law, which has already been mentioned by Senator Emanuele Pellegrini, because it is essential to give our citizens answers on such a sensitive matter. I begin to conclude, Minister, not without mentioning the fundamental role of the prison police, which depends on your Ministry and to which all our gratitude goes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Gratitude for the daily commitment, I dare say almost missionary, that the prison police officers are to carry out, fulfilling both the function that is their own, that of the custody of prisoners, but also those, sometimes, of the psychologist or of the priest. I mean, they have to do pretty much anything. They're exceptional men. Let us, then, ensure that their work is made even more secure and that they can work seriously and in full possession of what is theirs to carry out their function. Minister, I should like to end with one wish: the responsibility I mentioned at the beginning is indeed an important responsibility that we have. You spoke of constant intercourse with Parliament. We believe her, because in the legislature that preceded us she was among these benches and, like us, she wanted to bring ideas, insights and proposals to really improve the lives of our citizens and to make Italian justice that flagship that we all want to be. Consider us, then, in Parliament, and especially in the Senate Group, its precious ally, with whom to share the passages. We're with her. Thank you, Minister. In this regard, therefore, I am voting in favour, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, of Resolution No 2. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u64	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I say to the Minister of Justice that we have listened very carefully to your report. For this reason we have taken good note of some of the main points and what struck me most, because it has occurred since the first phase of his speech, was the fact that he mentioned the government contract from the beginning. He then mentioned it several times, but he never mentioned the Constitution. I hope that the Constitution is in your heart and your reasoning. Sometimes, however, what is in the heart should also emerge in its own saying. In the Constitution there are some principles that come from that of reality and wisdom: for example, that not all defendants are guilty. Very often not all convicted are guilty: sometimes not even all convicted at the end of the three degrees of judgment. The last chapters of the four Gospels offer a historical example of what I am saying, but there are much more recent chapters that weigh much more on our justice. Another point is that we have shared some of the intentions that you have expressed, but then we observe that, from manifesting these intentions to putting them into practice, there has been either a blockade or, indeed, we have gone in the opposite direction. Let us start with the question of the speed of justice, both criminal and civil. You have even expressed a very ambitious intention on criminal matters. He said that he wants to clear the expenditure chapter of the recasting of damages through the Pinto law, which is the one that restores the damage to people who have been damaged by the unreasonable duration of the process: even, he wants to reset them. Then, however, you approved the cancellation of the prescription, which goes against the principles of the Constitution and against international principles since, already before this measure, we have been condemned several times internationally for the unreasonable duration of our trials. So one thing is said and then exactly the opposite is done. This problem is not just about paying for the damage. I wish that was all the problem! The problem - and we have not heard of this too - is that every year thousands of people enter Italian prisons, which then Italian justice declares innocent. That would be a problem to deal with. We have not heard of it, because the only problem is to prosecute a person perhaps for thirty or forty years, rather than get to sentences in a reasonable time. It would be enough to read Cesare Beccaria who wrote two hundred and fifty years ago; let's try to update ourselves at least to the middle of the eighteenth century, let's never go back that. Well, those innocent people, who suffer a trial and never see the end of it, perhaps because someone specifically does not let it end. Constitutional laws and principles are assumed that not all are perfect and may even be that some magistrate is not perfect. The arrests in the last few days are also quite remarkable examples. If a magistrate wants to continue a trial indefinitely... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u65	Senator Malan, forgive me for just a moment. The request for silence was made by Senator Pillon and I repeat it to the House in greater respect for the oppositions; if the tone of voice can be lowered, we allow Senator Malan to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u66	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] MALAN (FI-BP). Thank you, President. An innocent man and even a guilty man must have the right to come to the end of the trial. The cancellation of the prescription - because we have arrived at this in fact, if not by right - goes exactly in the opposite direction. It means that innocent people are ruined in the name of the Italian people, because unfortunately this is what happens; their lives are destroyed, just as their families are destroyed and, when they do, their companies; their employees find themselves out of work and then maybe, after ten, twenty or thirty years, maybe they are proclaimed innocent. However, always remembering Caesar Beccaria, even for the guilty, the punishment must be as close as possible to the time of the commission of the fact, also in order to avoid punishing people who are now different when it passes too much time, and in any case do not constitute any deterrent. As far as civil justice is concerned, I quote the government contract that you have rightly mentioned several times. In the contract there is an extraordinary phrase: "We need to speed up and streamline the civil process through a drastic simplification and reduction of the number of rites, limiting them to the ordinary rite and rite of work." In the same sentence it is said that shorter processes must be carried out, but then all abbreviated rites are excluded, leaving only the ordinary rite. You have now spoken of this project which we hope to see soon, which should implement the strange principle contained in the government contract, the process of the accordion formula. Beware that the accordion is a very difficult and difficult instrument to use, if already now with the ordinary instruments, we have those frightening delays, which represent one of the main reasons for the lack of competitiveness of Italy and, in other words, the fact that the jobs move abroad; although it is true that then you will give the income of citizenship having a tenth of the necessary money in the meantime you lose jobs and, without the job, you do not produce and there is no money to realize any of the initiatives that they would like to do. The reality of today's justice is made up of so many aspects that we have not heard of. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of minors, both those outside the family and the children of separated or divorced couples. This issue has not been touched on and you have even asked for our resolution to be amended in the part where you are asking to address the problem by introducing the formula "to assess the need for "to" it. In your opinion, there are no problems with children out of the family; there are no problems with children of married couples, who may have responded to their trust and their situation after years. I remember that a minor evolves quickly and after a while is no longer minor. There are children entrusted to institutions whose effectiveness is often doubtful, who live for practically all their first eighteen years in temporary situations, without compliance with the procedures. And then you tell us that you may consider dealing with that problem. Then there is the problem of judicial geography, which he did well to deal with. Let's get to the facts because you've had eight full months of government. It's not like you're gonna rule for a hundred years in this legislature. There are those who talk about long times, but usually it doesn't do very well to talk about long times. There is the problem of judicial construction and on this too the facts serve: with all the laws on doubling, quadrupling and decupling of the sentence, you will have to triple at least the judicial building. We must do this because it is paradoxical that there are prisoners in prison for violating the law (sometimes they are only in prison pending trial) and that they are in prisons against the law, so much so that then the Italian State is condemned and must pay all taxpayers for these very serious deficiencies. There are so many problems facing citizens; for example, a majority senator has also mentioned the issue of the support administrator, an excellent law adopted in this House with the aim of simplifying everything, and instead, (for its wrong application I have also asked a question) for support that should be very fast, almost automatic without prejudice to the necessary investigations, they expect many months, years and sometimes many give up. Again there are companies that close because you can't get a support administrator for a person who isn't able to perform his/her duties. These are the real problems; they are not those of show justice, of communicating. For God's sake, make communication, you are very good, but you should also have something concrete to communicate. The Minister spoke of constructive confrontation with oppositions. On the so-called corrupt sweep provision (in fact sweeps justice), both oppositions and the majority in the Senate could not change anything and this was also made clear a short while ago in an intervention. On other measures, such as the one on self-defense, the opposition was ignored, as well as on the amendments of common sense by Forza Italia, which also voted on the measure. On the class action we already know that there will be no possibility of intervention in the Senate, neither by the majority nor by the opposition; in general no amendment of Forza Italia in the Justice Commission has ever been approved and no action requested by us has been scheduled. Minister, you have focused on the question of failure, which is a very important issue, and you have made very good considerations, saying that failure must not become a stigma, a curse, and that we must value what is in society. All right, but you have the study of a measure concerning companies in difficulty and possibly in bankruptcy, in which a disturbing mechanism is invented, that is, the alert for companies in difficulty, with the obligation for the union college to denounce the difficulties of the companies. This is practically an early failure of companies, because which bank will lend more than one euro to a company reported as in difficulty? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] No bank, because in turn the official will risk something. The Revenue Agency is also involved, so if a poor person is late with a VAT payment, maybe because the public administration does not pay him the credits he has, this person is reported, the banks close all trusts and all banking lines and they fail. It's terrible, it's disastrous. The point is that justice (and governing in general) is a very difficult job, much more difficult than making videos, even music. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister, spare us at least the music and take concrete action to bring justice to this country, of which you are hungry and thirsty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u67	Senator Malan, what is the intention of the Forza Italia Group to vote? MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 3 and against that of the majority. We shall vote on the others by vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u70	URRARO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his timely report on the administration of justice. The legislature has begun for a few months and it is clear the reformist intent that the Dicastery has impressed in its action of government. As is well known, the Government of Change contract looks at the justice system as a whole, with a view to covering a broad period, followed by a series of innovations and reforms, the initiative of which is equally divided between the Executive and Parliament. The action of the Ministry, which you represent, Minister, covers issues of such great importance, both at the constitutional level and at the protection of the individual, both as a person and as a subject included in a community, which cannot be assessed negatively, as we have heard in this House, except after the course of a broader temple to verify the action. Until now, the Ministry and the Justice Commission have finally examined and approved key measures for the justice system. I would like to begin by applauding the latest developments in the budget law: the proposed measures in the area of justice aim overall at improving the efficiency of the judicial administration and concern mainly the staff, pursuing the objective of covering and extending organic plants, as well as the retraining of the staff in service. The goal is finally to achieve the functionality of the justice sector, now burdened by years of inefficiencies that have become chronic and unfortunately endemic. A maximum of 3,000 non-directive administrative staff are expected to be recruited indefinitely for the three-year period in order to avoid a substantial paralysis of the justice system. Those who work in the sector know what lack of staff the courts are forced to endure and know the importance of the category of persons they intend to take on. Let us remember that unfortunately it is always and only the citizen who loses himself for the inefficiencies of the sector. In addition, the staff of the ordinary judiciary is increased by 600. Together with this, the Ministry will annually launch an annual competition for a maximum of 200 additional seats. The recruitments have also been prepared for administrative justice, state pay and accounting justice, other essential areas. In our view, it is important to authorise expenditure in relation to the retraining of the staff of the judicial administration. The increase in funds allocated to victims of violent and rotational crimes for solidarity with victims of mafia-type crimes, extortive demands, usury and intentional violent crimes, as well as orphans of domestic crimes, is a victory for this Parliament. I still remember the difficulties arising from the implementation of the delegations arising from Law No 103 of 2017, absolutely disonic compared to an effective re-educational treatment of the condemned. The investigation carried out by the Justice Commission in synergy with the Ministry has facilitated a thorough elaboration of the texts of the various legislative decrees, aligning the reeducational treatment of the deed with greater social security. Fundamental, in order to ensure efficiency to the system, are also the recruitment of personnel of Prison Police and future projects of penitentiary building both in the context of the extraordinary renovation of the existing plants and in the construction of new ones. This aims to bring the Italian penitentiary system into line with the many decisions in the ECHR (European Court of Human Rights), which have inexorably condemned our country to make substantial reparations against sentenced prisoners in execution of punishment under inhuman and degrading conditions, due to the lack of vital space in the places where they are restricted. Funds have been allocated in the budget to finally implement organic reforms of the procedural systems, without neglecting the work carried out on child justice. With the entry into force of the juvenile penitentiary order, the arrangements for alternative measures to detention are strengthened. This results both in significant benefits in terms of containment of relapse and in reducing the higher costs arising from the costs associated with the management of prisoners. The reform of the criminal process is now an improcrastinable objective of this majority, aimed at achieving that efficiency that all international and European standards impose on us, from the point of view of both the reasonable duration and the certainty of the penalty, together with a process of reintegration of the deed into society, once it has been rehabilitated. The aim of the reform of the civil process will be to simplify procedures and, above all, the ageing of obsolete institutions, useful only for slowing down the process, without at the same time creating any further guarantees for those involved in the process. Just to state the measures currently pending in the Justice Commission, I quote the telematic processes and the telematic justice that, even through the use of the JEP instrument, will make the notifications more streamlined and effective; the implementation of the computerization of the offices and the relative training of the staff; the contrast to the so-called forced marriages, the horrendous practice still very widespread in the world, a phenomenon absolutely to be cut off; and again, a complete reform of the so-called daring quarrels, in line with a fair justice that wants to strike those who instrumentally use it. In the international context, unfortunately, we are in a historic moment where the global threat dictated by terrorism is the most important critical issue to be resolved. For this reason, scrupulous, fruitful and synergistic work has been carried out between the countries of the European Union and third countries, ensuring a strengthening of judicial cooperation and a constant presence at the various European and international negotiations. This is the reformative action of the Government of change in the matter of justice. This is what we intend to do, namely a complete reform of justice, which is more in line with the reasonable duration of the trials and, above all, closer to the citizens: I thank you for that, Minister. Following this path, which is the right one, I therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u71	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would ask the proposers whether they intend to remove from the text of the resolution the points on which the Government has expressed its opposition and accept the rewordings, in which case the motion for a resolution as a whole would have the Government's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u74	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to go a little further than your request, to which, however, I immediately respond by saying 'no', because the value of our resolution is unitary and also includes the premises and parts of the device on which the Government has expressed a negative opinion. We do not want to give up some significant parts of the overall reasoning that has also been set out in our speeches. However, I would like to understand whether we can proceed as follows: the Government has done a detailed job, trying to express specific opinions on the various commitments. On some points, contained in all the resolutions, a favourable opinion was expressed; on others a call for rewording was made, while on others there was still an opinion against it. If this work has been done in the spirit of leaving a list of comments on the Minister's report to the proceedings of this House and, therefore, if we decide to vote for separate parts and some of them are those on which the Minister has given a favourable opinion, can we consider the vote on that part to be an observation - as is the case with our own, as with the other resolutions - which goes to join in a list of comments that this House leaves to the acts? I say this in a more brutal way: we have made a judgment and we ask that we vote separately. We will of course vote in favour of commitment No 1 and the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. Does the Government confirm the favourable opinion or the opinion on commitment 1 is changed because of the fact that we have given an overall unitary judgment, not accepting the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u75	Allow me first of all to clarify: the decision to vote or not for separate parts will be put back to the House. This is the first obstacle. Secondly, I have a detailed list of the views expressed by the Government. If the House agrees to vote for separate parts, I do not think that the Government will change its opinion on those individual points that you, Senator Ferrari, have indicated to me, because the vote is for separate parts: it will remain in favour of some points and against others. I ask, however, to confirm to the Government before giving it a definitive answer, Senator Ferrari.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u76	Mr President, perhaps I have not quite understood the problem. The point is as follows: since the resolutions tabled are concluded with different commitments between them and because we agree on some of them and not on others, in order to avoid having to give an opinion contrary to a resolution that within it has points on which the Government agrees, we had physiologically thought to give an opinion on each and every point. Clearly, if the Senate Assembly accepts the split vote, it will give us the opportunity to confirm our favourable opinion on certain points.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u77	I would ask whether this is the address of all the groups, in which case, after asking the House whether we can proceed with the split vote, the individual resolutions will be put to the vote. There will be only two votes: a vote on the parties on which the Government gave a favourable opinion and one on those on which the Government gave an opinion against. I will not have a vote for every single item. I will list them and vote in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u80	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, as I said in my explanation of vote, I would like to say that we accept the rewordings requested by the Government. We are asking for a split vote, since the Government has expressed an opposite opinion on the premises and in favour of the arrangement, having accepted the rewording. It seems to me that this is the scheme and, therefore, as far as we are concerned, the situation is clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall proceed in this way to all the groups' resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u83	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say to the Government that we accept the rewordings proposed in paragraphs 8, 9 and 10, but not in paragraph 11 of our resolution, which, on the other hand, we intend to maintain as proposed, just as we believe we maintain the points on which the Government has expressed the opposite opinion, namely paragraphs 14 and 15). We are pleased to note that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on all other points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, point 11, which does not accept the reformulation, Senator Balboni, will be voted on with the points on which the Government has expressed the opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u86	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we, too, of course, are asking for a split vote and, with regard to the rewordings, we accept the rewording of points 1 and 2, but not of 3 and 4 and 5), aware that the Government's opinion will be against it. Nor do we accept the rewording of points 7) and 11) while we accept the rewording of point 10).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u87	I therefore put the request for a split vote to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u90	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the Democratic Party - on the one hand - has stressed and claimed the unity of its resolution and - on the other hand - calls for its vote by separate parties. It must be clear whether we are also voting on the premise or whether the premises are aggregated.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u91	Senator, maybe I haven't made myself clear and I'll explain it further. The premise was rejected and, therefore, at this time with the favourable opinion of the Government I put to the vote only commitments 1), (2) and (6). Then a further vote will be taken on the parts on which the Government has given an opinion against and the Assembly will speak. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), (2) and (6) of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u94	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I accidentally voted red instead of green.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u95	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), (2) and (10) of the motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 3), 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13) and 16) of the motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concludes the examination of the Minister of Justice's report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the President of the 8th Commission has indicated that the examination of draft law No 989 has not yet been completed, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.48 p.m. and resumed at 5.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u96	He asked the President of the Commission to speak on public works, communications, Senator Coltori, to report on the work of the Commissions meeting. COLLINA (PD). There's no government! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are right, the representative of the Government is not present in the Chamber. I see undersecretary Santangelo is entering the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] The President of the Commission, Senator Coltori, has the floor to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u97	Mr President, the Commissions have met, but we have had difficulties in closing our work, as some of the Commission's opinions have not yet been received. [[Comments from the PD Group]] So we cannot bring the measure to the House today and we are asking for a further extension until tomorrow morning. FARAONE (PD). No! You can't! COLTORTI (M5S). This evening we need to work together as Commissions to bring a proper dossier to the attention of this House. FARAONE (PD). Home!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u100	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we, from the outset, have done everything in our power to facilitate the examination of this measure. We agreed yesterday to postpone until today. The president of our Group, Senator Bernini, had already warned that we would probably find ourselves in the same situation today and, in fact, this happens again. I have to say that, if the postponement had been requested because the Commissions, working according to the timetables that are possible thanks to the fact that the House does not meet, had gone ahead, examined the amendments and voted on them, and had been late because these are so many, it would be, in some way, more understandable. The problem is that the work of the Commissions is suspended, has been suspended for a long time and, apparently, will remain suspended. It is not that we are now closing the Chamber and the Commissions are meeting: the Commissions will then meet. This means that the examination of the measure has been transferred to another forum: it is not in the Commission, it is not in the Assembly, but it is transferred not where: to the grand council of the government contract? I don't know where he was transferred! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] This is not the respect of Parliament, of Parliament all, of the majority and of the opposition, because the majority has tabled so many amendments, even more than the opposition, certainly many interesting, all representative of some reality. The fact that you are late and then compressing the examination all in one day (and I don't know how) is really unacceptable, because the measure is not discussed in the Commission, it is not discussed in the House, but it is discussed elsewhere. I do not have a specific request, but I ask that there be seriousness and respect for this House, because this is not the first time. Already if it was the first time it would be too much, but it is not the first time: we have seen it on the budget law, with reflections even in the end of the year message of the Head of State, which was then, rightly, taken up by the President of the Senate and other high institutional figures. It takes respect for the senate's function. I would like to give two tips as a friend, as our colleague in the last parliamentary term would have said, to my colleagues in the majority: it is normal for there to be negotiations within the majority. It happens, sometimes, even within the same party, however, I give you two advices. The first is: consider the deadlines of this House as real deadlines. It would be more respectful of the prerogatives of the Senate and would be more productive from the point of view of the negotiations because if at 5 p.m. you have to go to the Chamber, it means that at 5 p.m. you have to reach a compromise, an agreement. Let it happen outside the Chamber, but at least get there. The second advice is that measures should be avoided where everything is inside. This measure starts at the beginning already quite full-bodied and then, during the examination, inside it is put in everything. It is not forbidden to make so many small measures; to make a big one, and then to have such a cumbersome and even so non-existent examination in certain respects, despite the great work done by everyone, by both the Commissions and by all the colleagues who took part in the work of the Commissions, it ends up not being productive. Then, rather than putting amendments on any subject on any issue, in order to remedy the problems in the budget law, make different measures, so that they can be examined in a transparent way. The offense is not to the Senate, but an offense to the country, which has the right to see the measures and to know who votes in favour and who votes against, not an overall measure, which is omnibus and concerns everything, but individual measures, as provided for in the Constitution, as provided for in the Rules of the Senate. It takes seriousness to do things right. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u103	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, there is a risk of being speechless, because this is the umpteenth time that we are in a serious situation, in our view, and of a lack of respect for the functioning of the work of this House and the prerogatives of all the senators. I would also like to take advantage of your presence, Mr President, in order to reiterate what I had done in yesterday morning's suspension to remind this House of: at the end of December, as we know, we raised the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State to the Constitutional Court and I would like to reiterate that it was not an exercise of Christmas creativity. We have done so to prevent the prerogatives of Parliament and the Senate from being removed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because during the examination of the budget law the same prerogatives have been deeply impaired, with an attitude that we risk finding ourselves in exactly the same terms these days. Senator Malan also recalled this: even the President of the Republic had to intervene, after what happened in December, to point out that there had been a compression of the legislative process that is unacceptable, to the point that the Court had to remember that facts of this nature would not have gone unnoticed and could hardly have overcome the scrutiny of constitutionality from there forward. Seeing the uncertainty in the faces of the majority members in the Commissions meeting, I wonder what reliability there is in proposing a timetable that once again shifts the work of this House from now to tomorrow morning. How do we trust him? What respect is brought to the oppositions, who have the right to examine in depth every part of the measure, a right they exercised without carrying out any obstructive activity in these two weeks of attempted work in the Commission? Mr President, I would like to say this: it is our duty to arrive at this House at the time when not only has the mandate to the rapporteur on the measure been approved, but there are also the complete dossiers, because, as I have already mentioned in the Commissions meeting, the prerogatives for a majority or minority rapporteur or a senator who decides to speak in general debate are the same as those who decide to speak in an explanation of vote or an amendment. It is therefore the right of those who speak in general debate or make the majority or minority report know the measure in its entirety and for this to happen it is also necessary, this time, to facilitate the work of the offices, for there to be an adequate time between the completion of the work in the Commission and when the measure finally takes place in this Chamber. We are faced - and this allows me to recall the political knot of this affair, because then there is always a political knot at the bottom - yet another legislative bulimia. At every current event that happens or, at the same time, at every reading of popularity, missed or increased, that League and Movimento 5 Stars make those that may seem themes on which to recover a little 'public consensus (the energy one, for example), immediately they produce "parts" that go to fill any open legislative provision. We are talking about a decree-law that should comply with the requirement of homogeneity of matter and if a matter of topicality happens, we intervene, even by amending the penal code, by including a modification to the code itself within a measure that spoke of anything else. I believe that this is an unacceptable practice. Well, since we have come to this, we ask you, Mr President, to ensure the functioning of the work and to protect our prerogatives and ask the majority to stop humiliating Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] The truth is that there are no files that have not yet been closed; some of them, which happen to have exactly the characteristics that I have mentioned - I am thinking of the very delicate subject of drilling and energy issues - have never been opened and two Conferences of the Heads of Group have already met to determine how to discuss this measure in this House. The League and Movimento 5 Stars stop trying to smooth the country's hair, immediately responding with an attempt to regulate everything that happens in the current situation, and have respect when they make a commitment to bring a measure to the Chamber and, above all, have respect for all those who in the Commission intend to complete the work by discussing the issues to the full. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lonardo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u106	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, yesterday, when I spoke about the timetable, I pointed out what is now before everyone's eyes, namely the vulnus that is being consumed. That is why we ask you to exercise your power to try to restore the ordinary procedure. I am also referring to the fact that in this measure, called a simplification decree even if we could call it a thousandprorogues or in another way, we have inserted and continue to insert themes and arguments of every kind. This is a very serious matter. Last night or perhaps tonight - I do not remember well, because we are all confused - many of us have had to take the floor in the Commissions together to ask the majority to withdraw some of the amendments that went from donations to the intervention on the criminal trial and other rules on road murder, so to include in the measure everything and more. I am asking the question because it is closely linked to what is happening today, because in order to restore the centrality of Parliament we must recall in every way what the Council has indicated to us several times, namely the fact that the decrees must be absolutely homogeneous and that the same amending work cannot escape from the track of homogeneity. Then there is another issue where there are no more words. How many times have we met and then the sitting has been suspended? How many times have we returned, always with an attitude of extreme collaboration from the oppositions? We have done all this not because there were agreements to obtain the approval of one or the other amendment - I want to clarify that, then maybe someone will also have agreements of this kind - but to try to conclude the work of the Commissions, that is, to bring it back to an orderly and ordinary procedure, with the possibility therefore of giving again strength and centrality to the work of the Commissions and of the Assembly. That is why, at least as far as my group is concerned, we have done all this. The point is, we can't just ignore it. We have moved on and we continue to be faced with referrals, so even now we are debating postponing the measure until tomorrow morning, because there are political issues. I have just made a statement of solidarity with Minister Costa, what does this mean? That there are political issues that seemed to be resolved last night, including the question of drilling and energy choices. Look, there is nothing wrong with the fact that there is a confrontation, because there are different visions, but this must take place not on the side, but within the debate in the Commissions, because I want to discuss it and I do not just want to say whether or not I agree with the amendment on which perhaps the agreement has already been reached. It is a matter that concerns the country, the Commissions and this Assembly. We cannot accept this and we will never accept it: we will never tell you to solve your problems and then to come here, because for us, in here, to give back centrality to Parliament and to each of us means that every Member of Parliament, every Senator has the sacrosanct right to intervene and know exactly what matters are. On the political issues, then, we certainly organize meetings and meetings, but we can no longer, by virtue of all this continue to postpone, by ensuring that the Commissions and then the Assembly meet suddenly, it is not well known when or when to investigate. So these are the knots. The President of the 8th Commission has come here to say that opinions were missing: that is not the case and we know it perfectly well, because the Budget Committee has also expressed some of them. There are political issues, very well: don't come and tell us the lies that everything is fine between you, we know perfectly well that there are problems. But we also want to claim that within this House and the Commissions each of us, even though we have different positions - as they obviously have oppositions and as you have them - has the right to speak and must not take or leave. This is the way to bring the work back to normality and an orderly way: on this, Mr President, we formally ask you to exercise the utmost vigilance and power, because at the moment you have the opportunity to do so. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u109	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, after listening to the Members who have spoken, I would first of all like to ask you a question which is not rhetorical: what are the meetings of the Conference of Leaders for? We take part in these meetings, which also last a long time, we come out with decisions that are more or less shared and then, in the end, these decisions are never respected by the same majority that often imposed them on us there. The majority decides that there will be sitting in the House on Tuesday and Wednesday until 24, and then inform us the next day that they have changed their minds and that the sitting will be convened another day, because the dossiers for the amendments are not ready. The reality of things is very different and we know it, we are not children, also because we read the news agencies in turn. What you have defined as simplification is a decree-law confusion or complication, since there has never been a majority to carry out for three weeks such a level of obstruction against itself: we wait in the 5th Commission, in the 1st Commission and in the 1st Commission meeting with the 8th Commission to know the Government's opinion on its own amendments, i.e. those submitted by its own majority. Finally, Mr President, since we are in the Senate, I cannot help but take the opportunity of this brief debate to request the presence of Minister Costa in this House tomorrow. I do so after reading the statements that the Minister has made in the press on the caseus belli of this delay (that all - except the majority, who do not admit it - can be traced back to the problem of drillings in the Ionian Sea and the Adriatic Sea), stating that he does not intend to sign mandatory acts that have obtained the green light of the EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) and VAS (Strategic Environmental Assessment). I would like to ask the Minister to repeat in this Chamber, before you, Mr President of the Senate, and to the senators under which laws and regulations a Minister of the Republic, an official of the State and general of the Carabinieri, intends not to comply with mandatory acts, which the law also imposes on him. [[Applause from the FdI Group and the Senators Collina and Missa.]] I would like to understand that from your words in this House, Mr President, and I believe that you too have this curiosity, as I have it: we can no longer remain silent in the face of the spectacle that we are unfortunately witnessing. The majority are bringing this amendment, if it is to be done, otherwise they will put it aside or send it back. Do what you think, but our patience is over. It really is over, Mr President, because we have waited too long. And do not come tomorrow and say that we must stay here until Friday, until Saturday or Sunday, depending on the convenience of the majority, the Minister or the Deputy Minister, because we intend to examine that amendment in particular. We want to read it in the backlight, examine it in detail to understand what it says, because if a Minister of the Republic has announced that he will resign in case a single drilling, even already authorized, will be carried out, I want to understand if this Minister will be consistent with himself until the end, otherwise this Minister will have to be appealed in a different way. A general of the Carabinieri, a senior official of the State, Minister of the Republic cannot afford to announce in the press that he does not intend to comply with the laws, President Alberti Casellati and colleagues, because he has sworn on the Constitution and has sworn in front of Parliament. We expect serious action from Minister Costa. We want it here tomorrow in this House and we want it to repeat in front of us what it said to the press and comments on the amendment that tomorrow, hopefully, the majority will be able to submit. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u110	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Institute of Secondary Education (Einaudi-Giordano) of San Giuseppe Vesuviano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u113	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to reiterate that, precisely because of the respect we have towards the institutions, the President of the Republic, the President of the Senate and Parliament, our intention is to avoid what has happened even during the economic manoeuvre. For this very reason, we have started work in the Commissions and we want to end it in the Commissions meeting, addressing all the issues, the most comfortable and the most uncomfortable, as it is right that it is, of course, giving time for a comparison and the opportunity to analyse the amendments in detail. That is our intention. We apologize if there have been delays, but the political confrontation can take place in the Commission seems a little special to me. It may be that there is a comparison on various themes. Among other things, there are many amendments; the decree-law has started with four articles, but all the amendments that have been tabled must rightly be examined in greater detail. There is also some technical problem, because the Ministries and the General Accounting Office of the State must give all opinions. It rightly takes the time to do all these insights. We believe, precisely in order to meet this need, that there are conditions for us to resume work in the Commissions together tonight, with the votes, and we can reasonably arrive in this House tomorrow morning with the mandate to the rapporteur, having you analyse and discuss all the amendments. That is our intention; there is a bit of a delay, but we certainly do not want to come to this House without a mandate to the rapporteur, using the confidence and many other mechanisms that have led you to highlight the need for Parliament to maintain its prerogatives. We intend to work in this direction; if there is your cooperation, as there has been so far, we really think we can continue the work this evening, arrive at the House tomorrow morning and have all the time we need (since a sitting is scheduled without closing hours and we can also go on at night and, if necessary, at night) to close the measure. We promised this at the Conference of the Leaders, out of respect for the institutions, and everything must be done in a transparent way. If we ask for a little more time for a debate on certain amendments or opinions, I do not think that this means taking away Parliament's prerogatives. That is our intention. Then we will also hear Mr Patuanelli and try to find confirmation in the will of the majority to go in this direction. I hope that this will be enough to reassure minorities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u116	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, it is clear that the political debate that opens up on the issues that are being discussed in the Commissions is often an interesting debate. Senator De Petris is right: more often there should be political confrontations, even heated, regardless of the deployments and majorities, in this House and in the Commissions. It is clear, then, that the synthesis - especially for those who govern the country, therefore the forces of majority - is found before reaching the vote and the final discussions on the measures. So there is the need, on the one hand, to find this synthesis; on the other hand, to bring the measure to the House with the debate, which, however, I believe has already begun and has been well developed these days. As I said this afternoon in the Commission, I would remind you that, for example, on a block of amendments relating to the Procurement Code, we discussed - I see Senator Margiott nodding - for an hour and a quarter in the Commission, deepening and analysing these issues in detail, and so it was on other subjects. Therefore, we certainly did not have the time; we certainly gave the opposition the opportunity to read the proposals of the majority and the majority to evaluate the opposition's proposals. Several opposition amendments have already been accepted, within the numerous amendments - I believe more than 50 - which have been adopted. We voted on almost 400 amendments on a body of amendments that was initially 1,000 proposals, reduced because of the inadmissibility. Inadmissibility which, moreover, has been equally distributed among the proposed amendments: this signal, that both the majority and the opposition forces had the will to improve the decree-law, sometimes even exundating from the themes of the measure, which is why, rightly, the Presidencies of the two Commissions have declared some inadmissibility, that they have not been monodirectional, but, as I said before, equally distributed among the amendments, analysing them in substance. FARAONE (PD). Now it's our fault! Patuanelli (M5S). As was already evident from the previous speeches, our proposal is to continue working in the Commission this evening, to arrive in the Chamber tomorrow after a broad debate and to deal with the eleven hours guaranteed by the parliamentary debate to finally approve the law of conversion of the decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u119	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to make a proposal. I take note of the words of the majority group leaders and believe that they are in absolute good faith. Honestly, I did not see the same good faith on the part of the President of the 8th Commission, because he did not tell us exactly what was going on. It is clear that there is a political problem, there is no time problem, Mr President. There is a major political problem, which the majority clearly have not yet been able to resolve. It seems to me that - in a polite way, in parliamentary terms - we are being asked for time to complete our work in the Commissions and then arrive in this House. You know, Mr President - also because I have asked you several times in the Conference of Leaders - how much we care about the respect of the institutions. I remind my colleagues in the majority and especially my colleagues in the government that this is a decree-law when we examine it. When the government launches a decree-law, it has reasons for emergency, emergency. Adopting a decree-law involves the responsibility of the Presidency of the Republic, it submits the text to the President of the Republic. I invite the Government, then, to be careful with respect to the use of the decree-law as a taxi for all the needs that emerge, because this is not the nature of the decree-law. Gentlemen of the Government, that is not its nature, that is not the use that you can make of decree-laws and that is not the use that Parliament, the Senate and the House of Deputies can allow you to make. We note the difficult situation of the majority. There are, of course, deep divisions on important issues that prevent normal progress in accordance with the ordinary parliamentary procedure. Mr President, we note that, once again, in the Commissions it takes a long time to make majority comparisons rather than to carry out parliamentary activity. There are too many interruptions, delays and days that have been lost and which once again humiliate the work of Parliament and specifically the Senate. Our tolerance to this is close to being concluded, because it is now clear, after the message of the President of the Republic and after what the Constitutional Court has written, that there can be no more understanding for certain types of attitude on the part of this Government, the majority and the parties that support the Government. Having said that, I am obliged to ask you to convene a Conference of the Leaders, but I take note of what has been said by the Leaders of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars and I believe that it is appropriate - it is a suggestion that I give you, if you think it useful - to convene you for tomorrow morning, to see if the night will bring advice to the forces of majority, if they can find the agreement on the drills and not to invent further issues that should be clearly excluded from a decree-law like this. I would therefore ask you to convene the Conference of Leaders, but after they have clarified themselves. I do not want excuses: let us give them time to confront each other one more night, provided that we do not arrive tomorrow morning with a further humiliation of the Commissions, of the parliamentarians, of the Senate all and of our institutional functions. As I have often allowed myself to do, I once again call on the Presidency to fully protect our prerogatives, our rights and our duties, which the Government seems to have a tendency to trample on with an unacceptable frequency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u120	The call for more regular work, which has been strongly expressed here today, is also my call for respect for the establishment of the Senate and for all senators. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and PD Groups]] I immediately call for the Conference of the Leaders to be attended by the Presidents of the 1st and 8th Commission. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.49 p.m. and resumed at 6.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u121	I inform you that the Conference of Leaders is adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. The Assembly therefore remains convened at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning. This is the communication that emerges from the short start of the Conference of Leaders, which, as I said, is being updated until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u124	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, this is a subject which I have already addressed yesterday, when I spoke about the timetable. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u125	Colleagues, I understand that you trust me, but I'd rather you didn't turn your back on the presidency. Senator De Petris, I'll give you back the time I've taken from you, but I'd rather you intervene when a little calm has returned to the hemicycle. Without the need for me to name names, I invite colleagues to silence. Please, Senator De Petris, we're gonna listen to you carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u126	Mr President, as I was saying, the subject is, fortunately, the subject of so many people in these hours and on which I have already drawn the attention of the House yesterday. I refer to the removal of the reception centre for asylum seekers (CARA) in Castelnuovo di Porto. Some people use even stronger terms, because in some cases they might even talk about deportation. I would like to say here, very clearly, and as everyone can testify, from local administrations to citizens (who, in fact, yesterday and even today have come to the streets, even in front of the CARA, to demonstrate against this eviction), that this experience has been, and is, a true example of integration. There were a lot of teachers, because the kids went to school. Instead, inappropriately and heavily, according to the security decree, as we had unfortunately predicted would happen, these clearing operations have begun and transfers are being carried out. We have asked to know exactly - and we have also tabled Question No 300543 on this subject today - where refugees are being taken, what happens to those who had humanitarian protection and who, according to the Security Decree, no longer have. In particular, many of these have already been cleared from the center and in fact do not have a destination. What is happening - I try to say it with calmness - is really very serious. We were faced with a situation in which we wanted to strike - at this point I think it is a strategy - a positive experience. There has been no intervention where there were problems, but there has been an intervention and there is a major intervention where there is a positive experience of integration, of job opportunities in a community, because these people had integrated into the community and the protests of the mayor and also of the local community, of the citizens are demonstrated. Above all, this is happening without giving information: the local administration, the mayor was not informed; on specific request even yesterday no one could tell us where the refugees will be taken, what their destiny is. So what do you want to do? Do you want to cause an accident? What is the intention of the Minister of the Interior? We may know what the intention is: to give lessons, but it is no coincidence - and we will never stand for this - that we want to go and strike at the existing integration experiences. From this point of view, I would ask for precise answers from the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-82.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
