ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1547. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place, the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government and the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to the articles of the decree-law began.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u5	I am in favour of Amendments 6.1 and 6.2 (text 2). The opinion was opposed to amendment 6.3 and was in favour of 6.5 and 6.7. On Amendments 6.8, 6.9, 6.10 and 6.12, I voted against. I am also in favour of the adoption of the G6100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u6	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u7	Pending the expiry of 20 minutes from the beginning of the sitting referred to in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I would also ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas relating to the remaining articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u8	I am in favour of amendment 7.10 (text 2). The opinion is opposed to amendments 7.1, 7.2, 7.4, 7.6, 7.7, 7.3, 7.5, 7.9, 7.11 and 7.12 and supports amendment 7.13. On amendments 7.14, 7,700 the opinion was against, while it was in favour of 7.15 (text 2) and 7,16. is still opposed to Amendments 7,17, 7,18 and 7,19. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G7,100, I am opposed to the adoption of the opinion, while the opinion on the agenda, Mr G7,101, is in favour of accepting the opinion as a recommendation. The opinion was also opposed to the remaining amendments 7.0.1, 7.0.3 and 7.04. The opinion was then in favour of the G8.100 agenda with a recommendation. It is against the agendas G8.101 and G8.102. The opinion was opposed to amendments 8.0.1, 8.0.4, 8.0.6, 8.0.7, 8.0.8 and 8.0.9. The opinion was in favour of amendment 8.0.10. On the contrary, it remains opposed to amendments 8.0.11, 8.0.17, 8.0.18 and 8.0.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u9	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u10	Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes from the beginning of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.13 a.m. and resumed at 9.21 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u11	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the delegations of the Association "Salute donna" of Bergamo and of the ASST Bolognini of Seriate, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u15	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party and the Commission as a whole want to draw the House's attention to Amendment 6.1 (text 2) which is extremely appropriate and valuable. Through this amendment, we felt that we should involve not only individual citizens, but also all environmental protection associations, in order to ensure the right, not secondary, to transparency and the usability of data. We believe it is appropriate to work in this direction because, with a view to involvement, we believe that on these issues citizens and associations can be put in a position to know the data available, so that not only our political action, but also the answers to be given are as appropriate and verifiable as possible. This, from the point of view of the installation and the ratio of the decree-law that we are preparing today - I hope - to convert. In fact, at the base is the idea of a sharing and the will to put in place actions that find the support of everyone. I think that this passage - and I am also speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party - is fundamental, because environmental issues need reciprocity, sharing, but above all a collective awareness, that sees us engaged in concrete actions, that take into account not only the urgency imposed by the times, but also a vision of perspective. With this objective, we reiterate once again how the measure represents a first step within a broader vision that, with determination, strength and above all will, we will put in place. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u16	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.2 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.5, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.6 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.7, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 6.8, identical to Amendments 6.9 and 6.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, identical to amendments 6.9, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, and 6.10, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.11 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 6.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 6.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments referred to in Article 7. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.8 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 7.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, up to the words 'n'. 228,.................................................................................................................. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 7.4 to 7.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.11, tabled by Senator Pazzaglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.14, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,700, tabled by Senator Mollame and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.15 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 7.16 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.17, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.18, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.19, tabled by Senator Nocerino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G7100, presented by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As regards the agenda G7.101, the Government is willing to accept it as a recommendation. I ask the presenters if they agree. NASTERS (FdI). Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G7.101 is accepted as a recommendation. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u19	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, this is one of the most important amendments for us because it would set up the vacuum system to render. At a time when we want to intervene above all on the behaviour of citizens - not in an ethical but shared and virtuous way - and therefore before intervening with a horrendous system like that of taxing plastic tout court that will only create discomfort and difficulties and impose new taxes on citizens' pockets without it being even a tax of purpose, we, in a rational and serious way as we use to do, propose an alternative that allows us to implement good practices of proper bestowal and then, consequently, of proper disposal and recycling. This practice, widespread, moreover, in the most advanced countries of the world, in Northern Europe and in the United States, leads to a series of virtuous actions that ensure that citizens independently keep the sites and roads clean. Yesterday we adopted an amendment introducing "plastic food" with the usual title. If we introduce plastic-eating machines, I do not see why, to follow, we do not insert the vacuum system to make it really the most rational solution to get out of this horrendous vicious circle that, in order to correct behavior, only taxes are imposed. This is an ethical state! Instead, for our part, we want to propose something serious and alternative such as the vacuum system to make, so I would ask you to think about it seriously and vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u20	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.1, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.0.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.3 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.4 tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 8. Senator Gallone, the Government has declared to accept the agenda G8.100 as a recommendation. Do you accept? GALLONE (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G8.00 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G8.101, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G8.102, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,0,1, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.2 is unacceptable. We move on to amendment 8.0.4, which is identical to amendments 8.0.6, 8.0.7 and 8.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.4, tabled by Senator Bergesio and other Senators, identical to amendments 8.0.6, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other Senators, 8.0.7, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other Senators, and 8.0.8, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.9, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.0.10 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.11, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.0.13 and 8.0.12 are inadmissible. Amendments 8.0.14 to 8.0.16 are unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 8.0.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.17 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.18, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.19 is unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.20, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u23	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to say from the outset that the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour, although it has some concerns, not so much about the measures of the measure, but about the way in which the Government is approaching the issue of environmental conversion. The willingness of Minister Gualtieri to overcome the criticalities of the budget law is positive, also because they risk hitting precisely the companies that are investing on the sustainability and recycling of materials. About a third of Italian companies have already started to reduce their environmental impact; this is to say that the company is the main ally, since in many cases the problem of "before" politics has been raised. The ecological transition must be socially sustainable, i.e. it must not affect employment levels or increase the tax burden on businesses and citizens. Germany is investing 100 billion in ten years, on the basis of agreements and strategies designed together with the industrial world and where ecological conversion involves all the ministries and not only that of the environment. In this measure, the benefits fall mainly on consumers and not on businesses or research centres, which must instead be the protagonists of change. Our amendments, at the first signature of Senator Durnwalder, aimed to build a greater balance, as well as a strong protagonism of the subjects who guard the territory and can contribute to the safety and maintenance of the soil. Let me mention a few: that of extending the green bonus and consolidating the renewable energy plan through the tax deduction for photovoltaic plants; that for hotel companies participating in the single-use plastic container replacement programmes; and that of fiscally facilitating the purchase of rebuilt tyres, thus avoiding the release of waste of several tons of out-of-use tyres. They are all proposals of common sense, which we hope can be recovered later. On the other hand, we welcome the safeguard clause, as well as the strengthening of measures to combat hydrogeological failure. It is also positive that many measures of the measure are linked to an assessment in the medium term to measure effectiveness. However, the main point is that we do not yet see an overall multilevel strategy designed over the years. In its absence, the risk is that even measures dictated by common sense will not have the desired effect. With the tax lever, action must be taken only at the end; it must be the approach of a path in which companies have previously accompanied themselves in the conversion and have offered to citizens alternative solutions to those that are not sustainable from the environmental point of view. It is with this invitation that I repeat our Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Crucioli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have tried, in the passage of the law of this decree, to make our contribution, of course, and I would also like to thank the Commission, the President and the rapporteur for the work they have done, which has enabled us to improve the text considerably, because the amendments that have been adopted have certainly helped to improve the approach of the decree itself. The value of the decree-law, on which we too immediately announce our vote in favour, is first of all - I repeat - that we have put as the first fundamental question what we consider the crucial step, namely the approval of a national strategic plan to combat climate change. In the measure, this strategic plan joins, in addition to a series of measures on which I will intervene, the question of improving air quality and, above all, the arrangement of a series of infringement procedures and, therefore, measures that make this chapter somehow lead to completion. And that is certainly something not to be underestimated. Among the other rules, I mark the experimental programme for sustainable mobility and I stress in particular Article 4, which has been greatly improved through the adoption of a series of amendments, such as - for example - the one on intervention in the internal areas, which are the most delicate ones in our country; therefore the experimental programme concerns the cities and even the internal areas of our territory. There is also the theme of the single commissioners with regard to an issue that we think has never been fully addressed, namely the implementation of interventions on unfair landfills, waste water, a number of situations for which our country has also been the subject of non-indifferent infringement procedures. The decree-law is certainly a first step, but absolutely not sufficient - and the Minister is absolutely aware of it. I repeat, however, that its value is to affirm a principle that we can define as a systemic approach, which, through the approval of an amendment, introduces the permanent interministerial table for interventions on the climate emergency, coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment. In my opinion, there should also be a steering booth in the Council Presidency with a view to coordinating all public policies, refocusing them on the strategy of combating climate change. This is the real issue that can be addressed - we know perfectly well - through the use of a number of instruments. And the budget law, which we began to deal with, assumes, then, another mission, in close coordination with this climate decree, which is the green new deal, which is the mission - let us remember - of this majority, that is to begin to act seriously, with all the tools available, assuming all the responsibilities, which are sometimes not trivial, because the transition is not a gala lunch, but it is a complicated and complex thing. But this is the mission of the majority: to finally give a strong sign, a turning point to speed up the transition. I don't think we can wait any longer. Here every time you make a proposal, there's controversy. I repeat: the transition must involve all categories. And here I say clearly that the environmentally harmful subsidies issue must be dealt with with with a table and - I agree perfectly - with conciliation. But we cannot continue to postpone the issue of removing subsidies from fossils and all environmentally harmful activities. The transition must be addressed with an approach of involvement, because - we know perfectly well - the transition both energy and ecological must see the involvement of all social and economic actors, because it can be an opportunity for everyone, to give a boost to the economy and refocus it generically towards sustainability, as well as to convert production and consumption heavily in an ecological sense. This is an opportunity for our country, where there are energies, research and know-how that can allow, even in the field of circular economy and green technological innovations, a really good development. This is the absolutely fundamental thing. In a few minutes we will also face the story of Venice: now we discuss Venice, but maybe in a week we forget about it. Let us not deceive ourselves that extreme climate events will stop: they do not stop, the change is strongly accelerated and the data goes all in this direction. Sometimes I hear someone deluding themselves thinking that technology will solve everything. Technology will not solve everything: technology and research help us, but we must make choices to redirect our economy, because the current destructive model is no longer sustainable for our country or for the Planet. The devastating effects of climate change, and therefore of our non-choices, will be paid first and foremost for those who have the least chance and are more in difficulty; they will fall more heavily on the poorest strata of the population. We always have to remember that. Addressing this issue, preparing mitigation plans, reducing emissions, converting and accelerating the ecological and energy transition is also a major social justice operation, because - I repeat - the effects of climate change will be paid more by people in difficulty. There is another element that the measure does not fully address, even if it is in close connection with the interventions that we are beginning to put in place. It is the metropolitan areas and the large cities that are most at risk, for a problem that concerns the so-called heat islands because of the concentration of the population: a global trend that we also find in our country, where the difficulties are stronger the problems of air quality not indifferent. We must therefore focus on this all the investments relating to sustainable mobility. And the measure contains a few references to this, but much, much more needs to be done so that this becomes a competitive factor and strong innovation for our cities. The cities they have on this are, also in Europe, the most competitive from an economic and social point of view. The decree-law under consideration takes a first fundamental step, solemnly stated in Article 1: our country is facing the fight against climate change from a strategic point of view. And this is the mission of the current majority, which can really mark a very important turning point for the country, from an economic, social and environmental point of view. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u29	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating and which we are about to vote on is part of a path that - I am convinced - will characterize the action of our Government for the next few years. The green new deal - the new green vocation that the Government and the majority who support it want to give it to Italy - represents a significant strategic objective within which the measure under consideration is also included which - as Minister Costa said yesterday - composes - in the combination of green new deal national and green new deal European wanted by the new president of the European Commission von der Leyen - a broader vision to face climate change. Moreover, in these days thousands of citizens are struggling with floods of rivers and tides that have caused millions and millions of damage and hundreds are the men of Civil Protection, of the health personnel and of the Forces of the order - to which my and our most heartfelt thanks go - committed to supporting the populations affected and to solving the damage caused by the bad weather. The dramatic image of the tide and the high water in Venice, with Piazza San Marco completely submerged, of which we will discuss shortly with the motions presented, as well as the images of Matera and the many other affected areas (from North to South, in Emilia as in Campania, in Liguria and in Basilicata) put us in front of the rawest of truths. The phenomenon of climate change has more and more concrete effects and never as we face it now, having a calm attitude, touching it with our hands and seeing the real consequences it could cause. It seems clear to me that, in the face of this scenario, the institutions of this country can only consider the environmental issue as a priority for the future of their citizens. When we decided a few months ago to vote in favour of the Count-Ais Government, we did so, also and above all, because we were convinced that a different parliamentary majority could have set a turning point especially on this issue that is particularly dear to us, with a serious, concrete and effective commitment. As I mentioned earlier, with the green new deal this government, since its inception, has considered the environment and the fight against climate change a priority. The decree-law that we are about to convert marks a clear change and a deep discontinuity with the past, especially if read in conjunction with the important provisions included in the draft budget law that we will discuss in a few days in this House and that, also on the environmental side and the green new deal, will be improved by the proposals of the parliamentarians (surely from those of the Senators of the Italian Group Viva-PSI). With the so-called climate bill, we first of all give - and not only - concrete answers to prevent our country from entering into an infringement procedure by the European Union, which would cost Italian citizens dearly. We also begin to give a concrete address to improve the quality of the area in our cities. In the measure under consideration we have intervened focusing primarily on the large metropolitan areas (where 22 million Italians live, equal to 36% of the population of our country), which are objectively more critical, as well as populous. The incentives for sustainable mobility will allow to allocate a contribution of 500 or 1,500 euros to all those citizens who decide to scrap a motorcycle or a car respectively up to the Euro 3 type approval class or can be used to buy local public transport subscriptions, bikes with pedal assistance or for the use of the car or bike sharing service. For municipalities with significant levels of pollution, it is also planned to authorise expenditure of EUR 10 million to carry out or implement transport for children to the state or municipal nursery school by new means of transport. We are talking about important figures that mark a sharp change in pace: millions of euros for the replacement of the most polluting means, for sustainable school transport and for local public transport in metropolitan areas. We have all seen and understood this: the environmental battle is a battle that is at heart especially to the younger generations, he came to the streets all over the world to ask loudly to all of us, to those who are responsible for political choices and who are called precisely to give them answers, a serious, concrete and effective commitment. More than 2,000 events in more than 125 countries involved and more than 1.5 million people came to the square: these are the numbers, for some impressive aspects, of the battle that carried out in a symbolic way the young 16-year-old activist Greta Thunberg, who we also had the pleasure to listen here in the Senate, guest of President Alberti Casellati. In those demonstrations (and also in that speech) that have colored the streets and squares of all the world have come to the square mainly students, the youngest, and they have done so asking that the phase of the promises be closed and that of the facts opened. It is the demand of a generation that has the awareness of having to live on this Planet longer than we will be called to do and that deserves to do so without the worry of having to defend itself from the dangers related to the phenomenon of climate change, which - as we are living even in the last hours - manifest themselves increasingly violent and threatening and are also due to the choices of our and previous generations, who have to some extent unjustly mortgaged the future of the new generations. For these reasons we are obliged to translate into good laws those solicitations that are shaking the institutions not only Italian, but of the whole world. And it is undeniable that the protection of the state of health of our country also goes from a deep education to respect for the environment, also and above all for the younger children. For this reason, thanks also to the sensitivity of the Government and the majority colleagues, I feel I can express the satisfaction of having managed to insert in the measure a provision that is heartfelt to the Italian Group Viva-PSI and that has also met the favour of the minority colleagues. With the approval of the decree-law under consideration we foresee the possibility of implementing in schools an awareness-raising and training plan for students: the program called "I'm Environment" is funded with a budget of 2 million euros for each of the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 and has the objective to start campaigns of information, training and awareness on environmental issues in schools of every order and grade. Educating conscious citizens is a fundamental first step in building a society that feels on its shoulders the weight and responsibility of preserving and defending the place where we live. This is precisely why we have provided for the possibility of timely information and awareness-raising campaigns in schools on environmental issues, with particular regard to instruments and actions to combat, mitigate and adapt to climate change. The resources allocated will be able to finance projects, initiatives, programmes and campaigns, including student volunteering activities, which aim at spreading the values of environmental protection and sustainable development or, again, promoting knowledge and environmental protection. Mr President, this is certainly not enough. We are all aware of this, as we have already heard from previous speakers. But we are equally aware of the fact that this is an important first step and - as Minister Costa said yesterday - everything that has not been included in the decree-climate law, which has been proposed and is worthy of attention, will not be lost, but will be taken up in the budget law and in the related environmental bill that will be discussed in January. This is an important statement and I am sure that it will be implemented accordingly. I believe that many of us will have a chance in future measures to make important additional proposals to really run the green new deal that our country wants. The Italia Viva-PSI Group in the Budget Act will bring proposals that go in this direction. My Italy Viva party, through the shock plan, will bring and is already bringing additional proposals. Thinking about the issue of railways, hydrogeological failure, anti-seismic measures especially in schools, if the government wants to accept the plan and proposals that we are making, there will be the conditions to be able to free the resources already available to make interventions that go precisely in the direction of improving the environmental framework of our country. We, the President, the Government, are here and it is for all these reasons that we will vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-climate law. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u32	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the new European Commissioner, Ursula von der Leyen, who is so esteemed by this majority in government, said that one of his primary objectives is to be able to boast a Europe capable of being the first climate-neutral continent by 2050: a difficult and complicated project, but extremely fascinating and especially important to us, but even more so for future generations. Yet, talking about climate and the environment today has become almost impossible because even on a theme of this kind, which should keep us all united and compact, political divisions have exasperated the confrontation, perhaps deliberately, depriving the debate of all logic and reason, leaving it filled only with slogans and positions shouted. What can be, if not ridiculous slogans, those that in recent days authoritative members of the Government, such as the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea or the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, have expressed on this climate package? On 10 October, in the margins of a Council of Ministers, the Government said triumphantly that this measure allocated 450 million to the environment. The truth, however, fellow senators, is that there is nothing triumphant here. First of all, let's make it clear. The government doesn't allocate anything here. The truth is that the government is called from Brussels because it is not yet able to offer its population a serious environmental policy that all other countries have endowed themselves with. The priorities of the government are not to relaunch the country with virtuous green policies, but to stop the country with crazy policies, such as those of the income of citizenship, which are nothing more than a false illusion of social revival; an illusion that costs tens of billions a year to the state, while the government boasts that it has allocated a few million euros for the environment. On the other hand, we must understand - my fellow Senators - that environmental policy is an extremely ambitious objective, capable of also being a flywheel for our productive economic system, which will inevitably entail a number of costs, but also challenges that will have to be accompanied by new educational and social objectives. Just think of the need for the country to invest in clean energy sources, such as solar energy, on which much has been done, but much still needs to be done. Decree-Law No 111 is born - it is right to remember - as I have already said before, as an urgent need for the adoption of a national strategic policy that allows to face a climate emergency certified by the scientific community. It was - right to use the verb in the past - the opportunity for all of us to do something for our country. The point - fellow senators - is unfortunately that the package, baptized by the government as the new green new deal, is actually the result of a lack of regulation, the absence of any policy line of environmental policy. In Article 2, for example - to say the least, the one that wants to promote sustainable mobility - funds are allocated for the dismantling of cars and motorcycles without providing for the possibility of obtaining financial aid for the purchase of new cars or natural gas, LPG or hybrids. In the same way, in the next paragraph, additional funds are allocated for the purchase of local public transport without these having to provide for a more sustainable diet than that of abandoned means. Incomprehensible, then, is why in Article 4, which has the noble intention of encouraging actions for reforestation, it is decided to bind everything to the metropolitan areas leaving out all the areas of Italy - and they are the great majority - which, although not characterized by an important demographic presence, need an ad hoc environmental policy. This was an opportunity to respond to the climatic emergencies that increasingly devastate our cities. Just in these days, with the flood of rivers, especially in northern Italy, our concern rightly goes to important cities like Florence or Bologna, forgetting, however, that the points where the water can overflow is in the countryside or foothills, where we have not been able to adopt shared policies for the management and maintenance of the banks for years. Unfortunately, we have seen an almost complete closure by the Government to accept a number of amendments despite, in the previous days, in the Environment Commission, we have had the opportunity to hear numerous and valid stakeholders; hearings which, in a concrete and exhaustive way, have tried to bring improvements to each individual measure. It is a foreclosure that has led the majority to reject also our proposal in which we hoped, in schools and universities, to carry out activities aimed at making pupils aware of the importance of environmental education. The truth is, in this case too, that the government masks itself behind student environmental protests, believing that Minister Fioramonti's justifications for student absences in the streets can fill this Executive's emptiness, which has no idea what environmental education is. You see, President, while we are voting today on a decree-law for the environment, which should be the pride of a Parliament, in the rooms nearby Italians are mocked by putting taxes on plastic, selling it for an eco-sustainable choice when the measure only serves to square - perhaps - the accounts of a budget that makes water from all sides. Why, instead of taxing plastics, are companies burdened with taxes and bureaucracy with far-sighted policies for biodegradable products not helped? Why not, instead of putting Italian entrepreneurs on their knees again, protect them from those Far East countries that produce disloyal, careless environmental impacts for the entire globe? For what reason, Mr President, can we not evaluate the inclusion of those civilization duties which we have long supported and which we have included on a special agenda? With regret, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will be forced to vote against this decree-law, not because we are not particularly sensitive to the environmental issue, not at all. Brothers of Italy will vote against it because, given our sensitivity to such a matter, we do not feel that we share the implementation of a legislative process that is not the conclusion of a far-sighted climate policy, but is only the result of a rough decision, without a real environmental vision that this Government lacks, born without any valid and solid project. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u35	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps never, as in recent days, have we seen proof of the impetus, the violence of extreme weather phenomena; never, as in recent weeks, have we been able to touch with hand the drama and devastation that these events leave behind. What now happens cyclically in different areas of the national territory - we think of Venice, Matera, Salento and beyond - is the example of an ongoing process, the irrefutable proof of a change of epochal dimensions. And this is not about opinions, nor about free interpretations, but about an acclaimed empirical evidence, unanimously shared by the scientific community. The starting point for mature reasoning about the environmental emergency due to its scale and complexity can only be the centrality of the issue of climate change. Knowing and being aware are the responsible and indispensable foundations for organizing and initiating a global and timely response. This process of action and awareness, considered indispensable in order to achieve a useful change, through the decree climate, springboard for further steps, fully interprets the policy that chooses to act and not only to remedy. Politics must always embody an effort and the legislative activity that we put in place must assume the responsibility of starting from a clear and clear vision of a change to be realized in itinere and to realize it, then, declinating it in the individual choices, which are exalted in the regulatory rigour, which specifies and harmonizes them in a firm and true proposal to offer to the country. In the meantime, however, insisting also on a widespread awareness to be accomplished, our cities and our landscape are hit hard. Climate change is not a pessimistic forecast. It is a reality that does not cease to manifest itself in our eyes and to manifest ourselves, betraying and translating, our real intentions. The foundations of human civilization on this planet are deeply compromised, the presence of life forms as we know them, the existence of a future for the next generations that we cannot sacrifice on the altar of our selfishness. Only a great collective effort can help to contain the damage, to curb the effects of climate change. This measure is part of a clear intention: to make our country an example to follow in the Community strategy to combat global warming. The reaction to this disturbing reality is to seize the opportunity - and this decree is an important occasion - to radically rethink our presence on this Planet. Attention, however: no one here wants to say that it is something new and that the political will is enough to stop the worst. We must be aware and spread the awareness that a great collective and shared effort is indispensable and that this reversal cannot be without a choral action, coherent and enlightened, aimed at preserving the inestimable value of the common good. In this sense, this measure reveals all its strategic importance, based on the ambition to make the protection of the common good and respect for the environment a permanent value and not only a contingent requirement. The prospect of a gray world, the fear of leaving to posterity only the ashes of a fire that burned too ardently can become the fertilizer of a new idea of humanity; a humanity based on respect for itself, for others, for the ecosystem, on a nascent common consciousness of preservation and preservation of what we have inherited and that we should be able to leave to those who come after us. Even the Creator deserves and needs a post-us. Environmental issues today are necessarily ethical issues. For this reason it is essential to interpret our political action also through the decree-law under consideration as the reflection of a new ecological humanism, according to a renewed principle of Earth's democracy, courageously restoring reasonable conditions of justice, well-being, balance between humanity and the environment. The measure is, therefore, an important signal, which responds to a real situation, a step forward towards a precise direction, defined through a precise and punctual architecture, first cultural and then political, that realizes a series of positive measures, concrete, destined to involve administrations at several levels, measures that aim to achieve the aims indicated by the current government program in the wider paradigm of the green new deal. For the first time, a national strategic policy is established in our country to combat climate change and improve air quality. This approach gives the institutions and civil society important and ambitious objectives to be achieved, not from an emerging point of view, but within a policy framework: a perspective as a cohesive reaction, based on a system rationality, not flattened on partisan interests, which considers the social, economic and cultural dimension of our time. In this direction, the other measures provided for in the Decree are: measures aimed at reducing pollutant emissions and promoting environmentally friendly practices. Important is the transformation of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Programming (CIPE) into the Interministerial Committee for Economic Programming and Sustainable Development (CIPESS). It is an important achievement that recognises the centrality of environmental and social sustainability in defining economic and infrastructure choices. New and substantial incentives are foreseen to improve mobility and make it more sustainable, facilitating the dismantling of polluting vehicles for the benefit of less impacting vehicles, thus changing the face of cities and influencing new lifestyles through an experimental mobility programme of over 250 million euros, of which all citizens resident in the municipalities affected by Community infringement procedures will benefit. Such are the forecasts for the promotion of sustainable school transport, which allocate funds for the purchase of very low-emission school buses, and the creation of an experimental programme for reforestation and the creation of urban forests in cities and metropolitan areas. Other significant measures are taken in the field of adaptation to the legislation on unfair landfills (concrete tools that are used by municipalities) and in order to promote the sale of bulk and plug products and to discourage, as a result, the use of disposable containers. Important obligations are introduced for public administrations in the field of environmental data publications, creating a non-secondary right for citizens to be adequately informed by means of verifiable transparency with respect to the health of the air and water of the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, through this decree we propose to consider the environment as a value capable of mobilizing individual and collective passions and intelligences towards the creation of a new paradigm that sees sustainability as the focus of its development. We create a horizon able to shorten distances, reduce inequalities and reactivate a healthy circularity between economy and ecology, terms that from the same root (oikos - common home) project society into a future that no longer sees environment and progress as opposing terms of a conflictual relationship, but as constituent elements of a climate of justice. The indifference of individuals has only thought of itself. Don't you want to see your own people in collective damage? At the height of our days the warning of urgent topicality expressed by Parini in his Ode on "The health of the air" returns. Those verses still bring us a clear, clear message: the issue of air becomes a matter of civil and social responsibility that involves everyone. The improvement of the quality of collective life starts from the concrete commitment of each of us in everyday life and from the necessary political choices that indicate a concrete direction of novelty and discontinuity with respect to the past. This is a first step change from the past. To act concretely is not only to enjoy the return of the satisfaction of one's commitment, but also to feel part of something, to trigger a sense of a volitional community and conscious of one's own strength. It is for these reasons that the Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of this measure. This decree is in fact the connotative figure of a broader horizon, of a feeling that belongs to all, of a new culture to defend and support, in the name of another story. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Coltorti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u38	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, the green new deal, if well implemented, could help to push investment in key sectors of our country, such as the circular economy, energy efficiency and renewables, where small and medium-sized enterprises and the company widespread in the territory have long been present as active and qualified subjects. But your green new deal for the fight against climate change is only a flag to be waved to hide from the Italians the deep inability of this majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Other than the cornerstone of the Giallorossi government program! There is no strategy for this measure. Compared to the objectives, compared to the roboating announcements, the decree-law contains few and limited incisive measures, spot measures: measures such as good mobility, to replace private mobility with public mobility, which however will not work, both because you have not identified a subject, a territorial body, that will have to handle tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of questions submitted by 3,200 municipalities, and because first you have to face the critical notes related to the quantity and quality of public transport services. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; measures such as sustainable school transport, to be done with almost non-existent electric vans, or hybrids. Incredible rejection of our proposal to extend the measure to the transport service of disabled people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is also shameful that yesterday in this House you rejected, after approving it in the Commission, an amendment of ours which provided for the purchase of Euro 6 vehicles with the latest generation of low-emission diesel, in line with those of electric and hybrid vehicles, but - care - associated with lower purchase prices, which, with resources given, would have guaranteed a wider audience of beneficiaries of the experiment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You know what's gonna happen? The municipalities, especially in mountain areas, will decide to keep the old polluting bus rather than tear it down. You have introduced measures for reforestation, but without allowing reclamation consortia to do the work. Too bad, moreover, that the recipients of these resources are only the metropolitan cities. On the point, however, the other 8,000 ignored municipalities can rest assured. Yes, dear colleagues of the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars, because to a certain amount of plantings will provide for them Italy Viva, the new party of Renzi, who promised that for each new member will plant a tree. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Another questionable measure is the sale of bulk products in shops and shopping malls. The reason? Restrict the use of plastic. And here comes your chariot, your demagogy. Yes, because with a risk of contamination allowed customers to carry their own containers but - be careful - the operator at discretion may refuse, but we did not understand according to what criteria. Also, on how to weigh the products taking into account the tare of the container, there will be laughing. It is incomprehensible that you have excluded from the norm the sale of agricultural products, turning your back on farmers, while you have left food, without saying anything about their preservation, knowing very well that they can easily deteriorate without proper packaging. It is important, then, that the measure was launched without a comparison with the business system, which, moreover, for direct experience, had suggestions to give to you. I would remind you that sustainability for the energy transition cannot be based solely on environmental aspects, but must carefully assess the social, employment and economic externalities that certain measures can generate. The National Strategic Programme for Combating Climate Change provided for in this Decree should be coordinated with the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC). Let's figure it out with the PNIEC numbers. The first concerns the reduction of 40% of CO2 by 2030 compared to 1990 in order to combat the increase in the temperature of the planet and here it is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, that the emission of CO2 by the countries of the European Union is only 10% compared to the global one. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This should lead us to caution and not to immolate ourselves, especially by stressing our companies, in respect of Greta and the Gretinism, since many third countries have not given themselves binding targets. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am thinking of China and India, for example, where I do not know that Greta has gone down in the squares. Another objective of the PNIEC is the increase in energy production from renewable sources compared to gross final consumption. By 2030 the electricity target from Renewable Energy Sources (ERF) is set at 30%: this means that between photovoltaic and wind power we will have to more than double the installed power compared to the current 30 gigawatts, i.e. we will have to install in the next ten years about 5 gigawatts each year, taking into account however that the average of the last three years of new installed capacity is significantly lower than a gigawatt, so we are below 20%. In order to achieve this challenging objective, it is therefore essential and urgent to encourage the installation of new plants. For photovoltaics they serve mainly the large plants to be built on the ground, but they consume soil, or to be realized on closed landfills or in exhausted quarries. It is also essential to modernise existing plants from a technological point of view with measures to upgrade, redevelop or reactivation of photovoltaic, wind (and hydroelectric) plants, in order to increase their production at the same level of soil consumption. And here there are enormous regulatory and legislative problems. Certainly one of the main ones, raised by companies, is that of the long authorization procedures that pose obstacles, also for the simple modernization. Minister Costa, yesterday you defined the decree-law not exhaustive climate, although certainly it could, indeed it had to be the appropriate means to introduce regulatory changes and resolve certain problems. Too bad that in this respect the pragmatic amendments tabled by the League and other groups aimed, firstly, at remedying a discrepancy between two state laws which will still prevent installations on closed landfills and exhausted quarries from benefiting from incentives have been incomprehensiblely rejected. Our amending proposals also aimed at simplifying authorisations for non-substantial variants. This was therefore a missed opportunity. To this and to the above have been added the profoundly wrong amendments presented at the last moment by the Government, such as the experimental program "plastic eats" for the purchase of eco-compattori and the Green Italy Program, with the establishment of the title "Green Capital of Italy" to be assigned to an Italian city: two measures costing in six years 33 million, taken with a hand from a fund that the League last December when it was to the Government had financed to finance the reclamation of the many contaminated sites of which Italy is disseminated, as well as monitoring interventions, also of a health type, in the disassembled territories of the Campania Region and the Municipalities of Taranto and Statte where the environmental bombs of the Ilva and the deposit of radioactive waste are known. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In short, you neglect the real emergencies in order to wave flags and for this you should be ashamed. To conclude, the one we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, is the decree of demagogy and contradictions, such as the taxes which you have called ethical on plastic and sugar, which will weigh heavily on our businesses and, ultimately, also on families. I am speaking of contradictions, Minister Costa, since yesterday, during the reply, you recalled the importance of having introduced tax credit in the last budget law for companies converting their production of disposable products from traditional plastic to compostable plastic. We remember it perfectly: it was an amendment of the League Group approved to the Senate, regarding those who did little, dear colleague Floridia. Too bad that on the same day as yesterday, the Minister, responding to a parliamentary question, reiterated again his desire to anticipate the EU directive banning disposable plastic. Minister, no advances compared to 2021. Otherwise it would produce a shock and would be responsible for the death of other companies in an Italian sector that has 3,000 workers and a turnover of over one billion euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The so-called climate decree is not a turning point, my colleague Mr Beginini, it is not a change of pace, Mr Messina, it is another bad product of your supposition and of a government in disarray. He was born badly and you missed the opportunity to fill the gaps and give him substance. The sooner you leave, the sooner we return to take seriously Italy. The Lega-Salvini Premier-PSd'Az Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u41	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I swear that on the subject of the environment, from the first day of the previous and this Government, we have tried in every way to be proactive and constructive. I swear - and I watch the Minister - from day one and call the end of waste to witness. 10:33 a.m. (Follows GALLONE). Between the Minister's words, a person always polite and inclusive, and practical acts, however, we pass. How many amendments of the majority withdrawn and how many of the minority rejected, even when of support and common sense. This is the first significant act of the new Government, they all repeated it a little, the colleagues of the majority and the Government. This is the first act of the new government that inaugurates the new green deal launched by President Conte, novello Roosevelt, and we talk about national strategic plan, contingent and structural change, springboard to review the country's economic and social policies with respect to the topic of environmental protection. Wow, let's say we, because if good morning is seen from the morning, it seems to us instead that at least the government is not clear the difference between tactics and strategy, between structured and homogeneous system and spot interventions spotted by leopard that only create confusion and spending commitments for everyone: citizens, administrators and businesses. Environmental sustainability, climate action, energy transition are the themes at the heart of the actions of each government worldwide and, on paper, also of our Government. I say on paper because then, in practice, the system to deal with what should be for us the revolution of revolutions, the fight against climate change, the ecological transition for which so many young people from Italy have mobilized, for which the European Community has allocated 1,000 billion, for which the business world is at the forefront and already acts before even waiting for the lines of the government, is reduced to a hasty measure, of a few articles, arrived in Parliament in the form of a decree: another missed occasion. We would have liked to have referred a preliminary question but the problem is not the constitutionality of the measure, if anything the problem is superficiality, the lack of real understanding of how important issues are dealt with in a serious, pragmatic and effective manner. The real question is: is the climate issue addressed simply in order to comply with a European directive of 2008, or is it because we really believe that we need to act in the best possible way to ensure a true energy, climate and environmental transition? And we are sorry, because the question of the environment, the question of air, the question of climate (among other things we are not talking about water in this measure) are at the heart of the world agendas and should be in theory also here. This government wants to make the environmental revolution by decree, without sharing and above all without money. Then it is not that all this money would be needed: it would simply serve to support in a more effective way the world of the enterprise, which is the first ally of the environment, which is in the front line to adapt its own plants, its own machinery, its own mission and that today, fortunately, despite this Government, walks alone and from the point of view of the environmental conversions is second to no one. Environmental sustainability is serious, because there can be no environmental sustainability without economic sustainability. Hence our amendments on the vacuum to make, for the municipalities, people with disabilities. But today I would like to stress why we cannot vote in favour of such an important measure. First of all, because we are tired of voting for titles, of voting for flag measures which will then be slowed down and blocked in practice. I remember that there are 600 implementing decrees that still lie impaluted and bogged down in the ministerial swamp, from the times of the Letta Government, passing through Renzi and Gentiloni and coming to us. Three would have been in our opinion the basic requirements for obtaining consensus on such a measure: time, sharing, resources. None of these three were satisfied. With regard to time, the decree presupposes the characteristics of necessity and urgency, therefore haste. For the climate and the environment, there is no need for haste, but the time it takes to establish clear guidelines and follow-up actions. Much more haste is needed. The haste is needed to intervene in natural disasters or weather disasters; the haste is needed to save Venice, to save Taranto, to save the Salento already scourged by xylella and now by bad weather [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , to save Matera, the Ionian coast, the areas of Emilia-Romagna flagellate. For these reasons, within this decree, we have attached to the surreal new amendments that came from the government the other night the request through the submission of an amendment of concrete aid to the areas scourged by bad weather, providing adequate resources; obviously this amendment has been ignored. As far as sharing is concerned, there can be no environmental sustainability without economic sustainability, I repeat. The environmental change has taken place in the political programmes of the world powers, but we must have a pragmatic vision and understand that we need study, listening, investment or at least that those who are trying hard to deal with the transition in the best possible way, slowed down if anything only by the bureaucracy and taxes that the government imposes. Italian companies are ready and are presenting sustainability budgets one way or the other; they do not need these scathing measures. The plants that are so vilified, those that are used to transform waste into a resource and that you hate so much, are almost all now zero emissions and are heat-to-energy, while you continue to call them incinerators (these are two different things). This decree has good intentions, but good intentions, as we know, are paved the streets to hell; and we will fight with all our strength not to let the country go to hell. The good intention is to allow to give back a polluting car to receive in exchange a voucher to buy a bicycle, even electric, or to buy subscriptions to public transport; but it is a pity that funding for the bike paths is lacking and that the situation of local public transport in some areas of Italy (see Rome) is unsustainable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the good intention of planting trees, trees are planted but the riverbeds are not cleaned. Moreover, our amendments on the green bonus and bonus trees are rejected, just today, on the national day of trees. There is a good intention to encourage the use of electric cars, but not to grant VAT to 4% for electric or hybrid cars without displacement limits for people with disabilities. Above all, however, we do not act on behavior. Taxing does not encourage better behavior. Do not be afraid to share: sharing is not sin, it is not sin to accept a serious suggestion. Every time serious and decisive proposals are presented that do not come from the majority, they are rejected or, at best, re-proposed in another way so as not to leave the birthright to others. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] This is a very childish attitude, which does not honor people who are seriously engaged, who are also present within this Government and who - I am sure - are not even aware of it. There are four amendments: the proposal on the vacuum to make to solve the issue of abuse (other than plastic tax) is rejected and instead the experimental program "plastic eats" is inserted, which is not understood then how it will be declined, for an empty system to render; the ZES zones no, but the ZEA zones yes, and then we try to insert within the ZEA areas all the affected areas, but obviously no proposal to do so has been accepted. On the Green Italy Program I laugh, because we talk about capitals of green Italy, but we have the Capital of Italy that is suffocated by waste, we have Taranto who will never be able to propose to win this prize of green Italy for how we are letting it die. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Of the xylella I have already said, of the green helmets for the environment we already said yesterday: who are they, what must they do, how will they be used? We had a forest corps, today we have the Carabinieri, the police, the law enforcement, the armed forces, civil protection. As I said yesterday, that it is at least a unifying brand for everyone, also because we do not understand why we have to give an allowance, rather we increase first the staff of the fire department and equip them with the other bodies of the State, because they do a very hard job. Let's be serious, please. First the emergencies, because Italy is virtuous. Of the resources we have said: the refrain, the refrain is without greater burdens for the public finance. The turning point must be supported by the state in order to be sustainable, so have more courage. This is the fundamental virtue that we ask of you, the courage that fortunately is demonstrating the productive fabric. Have more courage, don't be afraid of those who are already working to improve the world. Do not be afraid of companies and those who make plants, do not be afraid of plastic, indispensable material, but we support the actions and the means to dispose of it and recycle it correctly, do not be afraid to take the time it takes to achieve the transition and achieve it well, helping industrial, construction, agricultural companies to grow, instead of closing. Do not be afraid of our proposals, because they will always come to an end. For the time being, you're in the government, and the credit for the end would still be yours. Once again, we believe the Minister's words when he says that the proposals that have not been accepted will be taken into account in the budget law and in the environmental connection, although I wonder why not do so immediately (Minister, we look ourselves in the eyes, as always). Do not be afraid to invest in ingenuity and work, even if this means going back to your own positions, for example on citizenship income, which clouds the free initiative. Don't be afraid, because as Roosevelt said - just him, who you bothered to launch the ambitious green new deal - the only thing not to be afraid of is fear. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u44	MORONESE (M5S). President. - First of all, as President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I should like to thank all my colleagues who have contributed constructively to this measure. This is demonstrated by the fact - and it is clear from the documents - that there are several amendments adopted in the Commission proposed by the various political forces. This measure is of historical importance, as it is the first decree-law that sets itself the objective of combating climate change and improving air quality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason, thanks go to the Government, and in particular to Minister Costa, who strongly wanted it, and to the majority for supporting it. An objective which is not simple and which is, as has been repeatedly said, only the first significant step, to which many other measures will follow. The effects of climate change are a clear reality before everyone's eyes. In recent days we are experiencing the impact and intensity of these phenomena that lead to a real upheaval of ecosystems and the richness of biodiversity that characterizes our country. We can certainly say that this global phenomenon depends on the choices of man, on the policies of exploitation of recent decades and on the absence of a broad-based strategy that could have prevented risks. Scientists have also given a name to this epoch in which changes to our ecosystem are evident at the hands of man: this period of time identifies him as an anthropocene. This decree-law paves the way for a new pact for the environment, a generational pact with which we change the approach to environmental issues to remedy the damage that will inevitably fall on future generations. I have heard some statements from the opposition that this is a poor measure and with little content. Allow me then to explain the absolute falsehood of these statements. A total of €255 million has been allocated over six years for sustainable mobility so that citizens can scrap cars and polluting motorcycles and receive a voucher of up to €1,500 for car scraping and up to €500 for motorcycles, to be used for the purchase of subscriptions for local and regional public transport, for shared mobility and for the purchase of bicycles even with an assisted pedal. A fund of EUR 40 million is set up for municipalities to implement or modernise preferential lanes; EUR 20 million is allocated to carry out or implement school transport for primary and middle school pupils by hybrid or electric means. In addition, EUR 30 million is earmarked for planting and replanting trees and the creation of urban and peri-urban forests in metropolitan cities. In these choices, the Committee for the Development of Public Green will have a special role to play, which will be able to give its opinion to the Ministry. This will allow an increasingly conscious choice in the type of trees to be planted. All these measures are addressed to the municipalities which are the subject of European air quality infringements. But it is not enough: we have provided a grant of 40 million in two years, which will be allocated to traders (up to 5,000 euros per person) for the realization of a green corner for the sale of bulk products or the plug. This will allow a significant reduction in the production of packaging and therefore waste. The environment is at the heart of government action with concrete and active measures immediately, but not only. There is a desire to start serious programming. Precisely for this reason, in order to ensure a constant coordination work is established at the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the permanent interministerial table on the climatic emergency in order to monitor, and adapt to the results, the actions of the national strategic program. Moreover, with an amendment strongly desired by the majority and supported by the Government, we have foreseen that, in order to strengthen the coordination of public policies with a view to achieving the objectives of sustainable development, the CIPE will take the name of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning and Sustainable Development (CIPESS). Another important element is information and communication: for this reason we are pleased with the adoption of an amendment that provides for the launch of information campaigns, awareness raising and training on environmental issues addressed to schools of every order and grade through a specific fund of 6 million euros for three years called the "Environment" programme. I mentioned earlier the European air quality infringements, but - alas - we are all aware that they are not the only environmental infringements in Italy. The Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea is working hard for the overcoming of the procedures in place and is for this reason that in the decree-law a specific article is dedicated to giving more powers and resources to the extraordinary commissioners who deal with the Bonifiche, the unfair landfills and the purification of the waters. I would also like to draw attention to an amendment to my first signature, which has been approved, which guarantees continuity to the Administrative Technical Unit, whose activities were due to expire on 31 December and which we are now extending to 31 December 2022. For those who do not know about it, the UTA has the heavy task of managing all the administrative disputes left unanswered after an emergency regime. In fact, there are many municipalities that are creditors or debtors to the State for large sums of money. Through the work of this structure, these disputes are finally closed with transaction agreements for the benefit of all. I would like to make a final mention of the four important amendments of the Government concerning the experimental programme "Green helmets for the environment," in order to promote international cooperation through initiatives aimed at protecting and protecting the environment for protected areas and with particular naturalistic value; the experimental program "plastic eats" with 27 million euros in six years for the purchase of ecocompactors in order to contain the production of plastic waste; the program "Green Italy" in order to spread and replicate the sustainable management of the cities; finally, the establishment of the environmental economic zones (ZEA), in order to encourage those new or already existing companies that decide to start a program of entrepreneurial economic activities that have as their aim the environmental protection and the quality of the air. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, I would like to say with absolute conviction that the measure in question is indeed in the right direction and is a pioneer to so many other measures that, as a majority and a government, we intend to take forward. There are many goals that this majority has achieved in just over two months. We have approved the rule on the end of waste, starting the circular economy, and approving the so-called bill saves the sea in the House of Deputies. Moreover, the so-called environmental yard bill has already been incardinated here in the Senate. I feel I can say, therefore, that this majority is strongly convinced that the only interest on the environment to be safeguarded is that of the community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, today, 21 November, is the National Day of Trees and in many of our cities there will be moments of sharing and raising awareness. Already only Turin will honour today the National Day of Trees by starting the planting in the city of as many as 20,000 trees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Last weekend the "Trees for the Future" initiative was successfully concluded, thanks to numerous volunteers who planted 17,000 trees in 185 cities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, as someone dear to us used to say, "A person can believe the words, but he will always believe the examples" and in fact this is a good example. For all the reasons set out above, I announce with conviction the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group to the measure and I thank Minister Costa. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, in order to allow an initiative by a political group, the Conference of Leaders decided to ensure that it would not be voted at the same time. Therefore, also in order to promote - I hope with success - the achievement of a single motion on the subject to follow, the final vote on the measure will take place at 11.30 a.m. The sitting is therefore suspended until then. (The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.37 a.m.) I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 111 of 14 October 2019 on urgent measures to comply with the obligations of Directive 2008/50/EC on air quality and extension of the period referred to in Article 48, paragraphs 11 and 13 of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016, converted, with amendments, by Law No 229 of 15 December 2016. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u46	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00191 (text 2), tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo, Ciriani and other Senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, and 1-00192, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other Senators, on initiatives in favour of Venice in the light of recent alluvial events. I call Senator Ferro to explain motion 191 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u47	Mr. President, representatives of the government, ministers... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u48	Please connect a little silence; it seems to me that the subject requires it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u49	IRON (FI-BP). Illustrate text 2 of motion No 191, first signed by Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani, which was delivered and which concerns alluvial events that occurred in Venice on November 12th. The high water reached 187 cm, as was the case during the 1966 flood. The situation was aggravated by a strong wind of sirocco, blowing at a speed above 50 knots, which led to a peak of 187 cm around 23.15. 100 percent of the city has been flooded; also the smaller islands and the coastal barrier of Lido and Pellestrina. Subsequently, also all the coastal municipalities of Caorle, Jesolo, Cavallino Treporti in Chioggia were swept by the furious seaside that devastated the beaches and tourist infrastructure of the entire Venetian coast. St Mark's Square and St Mark's Basilica, the entire historical centre and the islands of the lagoon have suffered considerable damage, which have affected not only cultural assets, but also other public and private monuments of inestimable value: damages that are today estimated at around billion euros, except for more punctual checks. The City of Venice has implemented all measures to safeguard the safety of the city and the population, but the interventions did not bring the results that were expected. There has been a coordinated intervention by the Municipality, the Prefecture, the Fire Department, the Civil Protection, all the Forces of the Order and many simple citizens, students and volunteers, who have worked, from the very beginning, to bravely cope with the emergency, to ensure the safety of citizens, to secure the territory and safeguard, where possible, cultural assets of value. On 14 November, the Council of Ministers declared the state of emergency and allocated the first EUR 20 million for relief interventions. Since 2003 the Mose, a civil engineering project that should serve only in cases such as those of the last flood, has been under construction. Venice lives and is able to survive, and well, with the phenomena of the ordinary tide. Venice, the entire Lagoon and the entire coast are in great crisis when exceptional events such as those that occurred last week occur. It is clear (and I do not believe that there is any need for specific competence) that the obligation to finish the Mose must be recalled, to finish it immediately in order to make it operational; to complete the administrative testing, the technical testing and all those fulfillments that today, complicit in a very bureaucratic approach, are preventing its activation. It is a work of extraordinary engineering, which would certainly have prevented the damage that has occurred in this situation. In our opinion, we also need a revision of the law, an update of the special law of Venice to provide it structurally with funds that serve in situations such as the one just happened. We would like, in a sense, and I come to the commitments of our motion, to adhere to the request of the natural disaster made by the City of Venice and the municipalities of the coast. The Government immediately intervenes in the management of the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, the subject of the implementation of the Mose, so that, through legal procedures and financial resources, it will arrive as soon as possible to the completion and commissioning of the work. We also ask the Government to undertake to update and refinance properly in the first useful measure, starting with the draft budget law that is being discussed in the 5th Commission, the special law for the metropolitan city of Venice, identifying, as I said, structural sources of financing and preparing an organic plan of urban maintenance, ecological, infrastructure and building of the historic city, as well as of safeguard. Venice lives and can live if, and I think there are all the political preconditions, this branch of Parliament will also give a clear and united signal of a specific will to defend a good, Venice, which is not a Venetian heritage, is not a national heritage, but is a world heritage. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u50	I call Senator Ferrazzi to explain motion No 192.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of Our Lady of Health. It is a feast of religious origin, but in Venice it is also a civil holiday, so much so that the schools today are closed and I believe that, as always happens in important events, even in our lives, the date of this motion does not fall, precisely, casually. We must seize the devastation of today as our Venetian ancestors did almost four hundred years ago, when, starting from the plague that killed 47,000 inhabitants only in the lagoon city, they managed to find the energy for a new restart. Well, President, Venice needs a new start today, starting from the commitment of all at cross-cutting level and regardless of political belongings, because in the face of tragedies we must not divide ourselves. The Venetian people - and not only Venetian - need to see that the institutions, in particular those most representative of the nation, tighten around and find real solutions. It was an absolutely devastating phenomenon for Venice and the whole coast, from Chioggia to San Michele al Tagliamento. Unfortunately, however, it was an episode that is not unique compared to what is happening in these months, because what happened in Venice and in the territory in a week did not happen in decades until recently. President, the phenomenon of devastation of the territory due to the climatic changes of anthropic origin has a direct effect on Venice but also at the general and national level and the intervention of Senator Pittella will put it in the right consideration in representation of the whole Group. But, of course, when we talk about Venice, we talk about a symbol and a unique reality. It is a social, artistic and architectural unicum; it is a unique because it is a fragile city and is in a perennial balance between nature and artifice: this must be understood for those who do not want to talk unnecessarily about Venice. It is nature and artifice, so much artifice that even the foundations of the city were not there, they were built by stealing from the arm of the lagoons via territory and even building the islands, which before were not there and on which this great civilization arose. It is unique because it is a symbolic city, which was born and fortified through the richness of diversity. Venice has been able to unite different peoples and transform these into new energy and new opportunities for growth. He welcomed the Armenians, the Greek Orthodox, the Jews and never thought of systems of fortification, he imagined the great Mediterranean sea as a bridge and not as a border and this great cultural and identity force became commercial and political force, precisely because it did not live in fear, but in courage, hope and the future. Mr President, it is quite clear that what is taking place depends very much on the human incidence. The disaster of 12 November certainly depends on the intensity of the winds, which derives from the change of the climate and the rise of the medium sea, which over the last hundred years has risen 25 cm in Venice, basically due to the melting of the ice and the overheating of the atmosphere, which involves the increase of the temperature of the sea and therefore of the volume of the sea itself. It also depends on the subsidity: Venice in the last hundred years has fallen by 14 cm, of which 8 for reasons of anthropic origin. It depends, of course, also on intra-lagunary hydraulic interventions. If this is the analysis, we must act today. The government was not stopped: it intervened immediately with the Prime Minister and with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport: it was declared immediately the state of emergency; the money of the special law already made available with another 20 million euros for the city, for the very first interventions were released immediately. This is the beginning and of course it is not enough. What do you need? First of all, we need to move from talking and proclamations to facts: we need to find economic resources for Venice, for the entire lagoon eaves and for the entire metropolitan city affected. The first act must be the draft budget law and we therefore believe, hopefully, that there will be concerted work between all political forces to ensure that adequate funding is provided. It is necessary to go back to financing what was ordinarily provided for in Special Law No. 171 of 1973 (and which was then completely absorbed by the Mose), with the same figures that Venice has received for years. This, not only because it is a unique, but because it annually bears costs, given its conformation, of tens of millions of euros more ordinary management than other cities and because Venice, to be Venice, creates an attraction and a multiplication of national GDP, for obvious reasons. It is also necessary to work in the field of relief and incentives for donations and for the suspension of the time limits for social security contributions and social security contributions, in favour of all those who have been affected by the damage. This is also provided for in the motion. We need to extend the emergency to Chioggia and the other affected municipalities. You have to complete the Mose. It cost one eye of the head: more than 5 billion euros. Now we see, we will have to intervene in such a way that it works. It is clear that, when 93 percent of a work has been achieved, a healthy government must complete it, trying to do it as efficiently and effectively as possible. We must work in the field of combating climate change, with serious policies of mitigation and adaptation and, therefore, implement a special plan of adaptation to climate change for Venice and the Lagoon. We must work in support, with fiscal measures and non-legislative measures, of businesses, artisans, traders and cultural centres. The special economic zone must be established, on which yesterday Minister Provenzano made an important step and in collaboration with our Group an amendment was tabled to the draft budget law that goes in this direction, to relaunch Porto Marghera but also the Polesine area. The Committee for the Protection of Venice, rightly convened for 26 November, must be an opportunity to express its views on access to large ships, to close the protocol on sludge and the morphological plan. The sludge protocol has been stationary since 1993 and should have lasted for one year: we are in a state of exception and violation of the European directives. You have to close the match of the Bonifiche in Marghera and the margining of the microislands, otherwise it will continue the spilling into the lagoon of poisonous substances. You have to extend the art bonus to Venice and the territory. There is a pressing request from the city of Chioggia regarding the GPL plant in Val da Rio: there the government must intervene. Finally, Mr President, the issue of the management of tourism flows and the wave movement must be put at the centre of our attention. These are skills that have a lot to do with local self-governments and the municipality, which obviously has to do its part. We, in this motion, ask that the Italian State be at the side of the Municipality, the local authorities and the Region so that this can happen. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI, Misto-Leu and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u52	I declare the debate open. Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u53	Mr President, it is clear that, in the face of this new drama about Venice, it is very important, as we hope, for the whole Senate to take a united position in support of Venice, the Lagoon and the Metropolitan City. It is also clear that this, like the other dramatic situations of these days, is part of the climate change that we are all talking about. I want to hope that this awareness will become an indispensable reference point for all of us and not the subject of a political confrontation. I would like to highlight two aspects, in agreement with the motion tabled by Mr Ferrazzi in its complexity. Firstly, I believe that we need to centralise the reasoning on the Venice perspective, which cannot be alone - I think we all agree - linked to tourism, which, indeed, as has been said, must be governed by flows. If we also want to address the demographic problems of this city, there is a problem that concerns the quality of life and services, to which we must finally deal in an organic and integrated way: a strong idea of Venice that, as has been said by many, is a value of the whole world. Government, local authorities, regions, fire department, civil protection in this emergency have worked together in a positive way and this is always an important signal when events like those we have witnessed happen. But now we have to build a strategy and that is what we propose in motion 192. The Government must build, together with the Region, the Municipality and the local authorities, an integrated system of interventions able to respond on the whole to the problems of the city, starting from the budget law and the structural refinancing of the special law of Venice - I agree also with those who submitted the first motion - in the awareness that a system intervention must finally be carried out. It is very clear that the Mose must be completed as soon as possible; it is equally evident, however, that it is not enough for Mose to have guarantees, that it is necessary to make punctual micro-interventions to safeguard the fragility of this system. Just as it is essential to think of new public and private investments, framed in a strategy of innovation and future for the city of Venice. I would also like to highlight two other aspects. I said, without if and without but, that the Mose must be completed. However, we must be able to take advantage of the experience behind us. I don't care now for abstract polemics; no, no polemics. However, if we are in this situation today, despite the first special law for Venice in 1973, the second law of 1984 and despite the fact that Mose started in 2003, with more than 5.5 billion of intervention and the use of extraordinary levers - for me, for example, absolutely excessive, such as not to make calls for tenders - we will have to think about how to build a system of management and governance of the measures that we will have to adopt in the coming years, without the illusion that with decisive solutions, through the commissioning and the overcoming of procedures, problems will always be solved. It wasn't like that. For this type of emergency we must build a strategy of intervention that, not only responds to the emergency, but that falls in an ordinary way of managing the works, starting first of all from the Municipality and going up, with the support of the State in support of the interventions. The government - and I conclude - has put the strategy of combating the climate crisis at the centre. The point is this, it is not propaganda, as has been said earlier, in the debate on the climate decree. We need a strategy, we have started it and from this point of view Venice is a decisive test point of view to finally show that a new integrated strategy has the ability to give a real answer first of all to the citizens of Venice, then to Italy, then to the whole world. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups, and from the Bottician and Bressa Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u55	Mr President, today we have an opportunity to give important answers to the expectations not only of the Venetians but I would say of the Italians and also of the whole world, considering the value and history that Venice represents for the heritage of humanity, a unique artistic heritage, because Venice really has specific characteristics - it is not necessary to extend it to explain it - unique in the world. The delicate balance on which the city of Venice, the Lagoon of Venice, bases its specificity, finds in the island of San Marco a thermometer, a map of litmusols of some much greater criticalities that are hitting the entire Planet and that have to do with climate change. The crypt of the Marciana Basilica has about 1,200 years of history, having been founded in 828, and, throughout its history, has undergone seven floods due to high water. Of these floods, four have occurred in the last twenty years and the penultimate one, the one before the last occurred a few days ago, dates back to October 30 last year and interested some square meters of the mosaic flooring that is located in front of the altar of the Madonna Nicopeia. From this we understand how serious the situation is and how fast the effects of climate change are. We are well aware that climate change leads to an increase in average temperatures and this leads to an increase in the water level of the seas. Clearly, the rising water of the seas can only lead, combined with the concomitant specific wind conditions related to bora and sirocco, the rise of tides and high water, which damage the city of Venice. So we must not just be alarmed, but we must also express our solidarity with the city, the people, the traders and the administrators, and we must be determined to ask the government for the specific interventions that are illustrated and represented in the motion. It is not just about making additional resources available to those already in existence, it is not just about recognising that we have not had the proper determination to what had already been produced from a legislative point of view, because when we do not refinance existing laws, it is clear that we do not create the best conditions to be able to respond to urgent needs. We have a duty to draw up, as this motion clearly points out, a comprehensive strategic project for the actions to be carried out. There is an issue related to large projects such as Mose, which must be completed, but there is also attention linked to small interventions, which are fundamental and which give answers to the needs of the ordinaryity that is repeated every year (interventions on sewers, parapets and rii). I therefore believe that our motion gives the government all the necessary elements to draw up an important strategic plan. It also talks about the great and delicate question of the crossing of the great ships in the basin of San Marco and the problem, which must be dealt with with with great delicacy and wisdom, of the tourist invasion and the depopulation of the city. We cannot let Venice become progressively a "museum" used and used only by tourists. As important as the tourist economy is (not only for that city, but for the whole country), we must make sure that the city returns to be lived, populated, inhabited; therefore we need to put in place measures of incentive for the repopulation of the city. This motion summarizes all the needs and measures necessary for the city of Venice and I feel I say for Italy, precisely for the importance of Venice for the Italy system. I believe that the broadest convergence of the parliamentary groups and senators on the motions presented can be an incentive for the Government to act with adequate urgency already in the budget law, with the instruments that are suggested here, to give concrete answers to the needs of Venice and therefore of Italy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u56	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u57	Mr President, I regret to open a new page of the Italian emergency: today the immortal Venice (on which Mr Ferrazzi spoke very effectively), Matera, Tuscany, Metapontino, yesterday Irpinia, tomorrow who knows. A sort of dictatorship of the immediate, which makes us chase, almost always stunned and grieved, calamitous events that could have been avoided or contained with a forward-looking policy; exactly the opposite of what we are forced to do to repair the damage of the violent wave of the emergency. We have devastating images in our eyes, but we have also seen heroic images of volunteers, of state forces, of people, of civilians, of men of government who have again joined forces to avoid the worst. In Matera, the jewel of Lucano and the European capital of culture, a cloud has fallen, benefiting from a terrible wind, which has lifted roads, structures, agricultural production activities, services, with about 8 million euros of damage. Two thousand years ago Pliny the old man quoted Matera calling her Mateola, probably because of the meteoron (from the Greek: starry sky), that from its rocks and its stones admired yesterday kidnapped and admired today kidnapped. Two thousand years later, in 1986, it was the Italian State, our State, with a national law, that saved Matera from degradation. In 2014 - I say this with a bit of pride - it was the European Union that recognized Matera as the European capital of culture. Today the Italian State is called to a new test of historical responsibility: to help a city, a land, a community in the heart of every Italian and every European who loves nostalgic and harsh Basilicata. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u58	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u59	Mr President, in some respects Venice was not surprised by the high water, because it is a phenomenon that has been repeated over the years and has fortified those people, our people. But the events of November 12 had a particularly dramatic feature: the water level has reached a measure that has not been registered for many years now. There has been a devastation with great damage and the loss of human lives, but the situation in Venice needs to be given particular attention and these events lead, as today, this Assembly and the institutions to think and remember that Venice exists. Venice is a beautiful city, incredible and unique, but at the same time it is a very delicate city. It is a jewel, but we must remember that it is a jewel of the lagoon, Veneto, Italy and the whole world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It needs attention, care, maintenance. We are well aware - it must not be hidden - that the Mose project is a tribulated project, which has been the subject of investigations, investigations and judicial proceedings, but that project needs to be completed and put into operation. With the Mose system working, probably this level of flooding would not have been there, but what is needed is then to keep the Mose in operation and, more generally, a care and maintenance of the entire Venice lagoon. From this point of view it must be remembered - I address to all of you colleagues - that Venice is of everyone and that the care and maintenance of Venice must not only be a burden or a load (because it is not only an honor) for the Veneto Region and for Venice itself, but a responsibility of all, of all Italy and also beyond. Venice is an invaluable heritage, a world heritage. The special law for Venice must be updated, refinanced and kept alive. Venice and the Venice lagoon need this, certainly they do not need the insults that have been uttered against the Venetians, those unspeakable words of those who have spoken of the irony of the fate of Venice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This irony has been used by those who should represent the institutions, by those who hold important Dicasteries. They are jokes about a disaster, about the loss of human lives, about a catastrophe that has endangered cultural heritage of unimaginable value. Perhaps it weighs and burns to some the great ability that the League has to govern its territories. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But let us go further and unite ourselves, as in these motions that we shall vote on, so that solutions can really be found and the usual instrumentalization does not always take place. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u61	Today, for the umpteenth time, we mourn one more death, we mourn great damage to our historical and cultural heritage, we mourn the damage that is again caused by carelessness, bad administration, corruption and climate change. As you know, last week, especially with the peak that occurred on the night of November 12, Venice went underwater, went underwater the city, went underwater the smaller islands, the coastal barrier of Lido and Pellestrina, there were considerable damage to the mosaics and the crypt of St. Mark's Basilica, important museums had flooding damage, the museum of modern and eastern art of Ca' Pesaro had a fire caused by short circuits and then obviously there were damage to businesses and citizens. Nature presents the bill. This story is paradigmatic in many ways, because it explains what can cause bad administration and corruption. The Mose is a monument to this; unfinished for more than a decade, about sixteen years, it has cost a lot of public money, it is still there and has not produced what it had been thought for, that is precisely for events such as these of exceptional high water. Why? This has been proved by criminal investigations; there have been convictions and condemned by the President of the Veneto Region and the Minister of the Environment and Infrastructure, i.e. those who most of all had to guard to avoid such things. I repeat, there have been heavy sentences and convictions for corruption. This story is paradigmatic also because a great work like that of the Mose has attracted all the funding going so much to the detriment of those works of ordinary maintenance and care of the territory, which instead are so important. And finally it is paradigmatic of what can cost climate change and lack of attention to the environment. A researcher at CNR, Antonello Pasini, a climate physicist, said that what we are witnessing is only the beginning of events that will be increasingly traumatic. This is demonstrated by the increasingly frequent statistics and phenomena, which were previously called exceptional and which may no longer be called such for their ever more frequent recurrence. However, just today we have seen a center-right that has unitedly voted no to the conversion of the decree-law that wanted to intervene precisely to remedy all this [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the decree-climate law, which paid attention to environmental needs. I have heard with my ears colleagues talking about the movements around Greta Thunberg as movements of the "gretini"; or I have heard other colleagues who praised the incinerators, or thermo-toolizers they wanted. This gray and shortsighted vision, modelled on an industrialization of the nineteenth century, is the one that produces this damage. Today, even if Venice is realizing the miracle of agreeing on exceptional and urgent interventions, I want to point out the difference between you and us. You are carrying forward a shortsighted and ancient vision, which says: Do not place any constraints on companies; we do not find a contemporaneous relationship between company law and the right of citizens' health and the environment; we do not link companies to them. We're different. So, even today, if the two motions will be voted on respectively, as agreed, I would like to point out this difference, because I do not accept whining about specific things. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , when then on the more general issue you pretend not to see the problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u62	The debate is closed. Before moving on to the intervention of the representative of the Government, I would like to make many, many wishes to Senator Sabrina Ricciardi who today turns her years. Happy birthday on behalf of the whole Senate and my own. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u63	I would like to greet the students of the Higher Institute of Education of Barga, the Institute of Higher Education of Machiavelli, Lucca and the Institute of Technical and Vocational Science, Enrico Fermi-Giovanni Giorgi, Lucca. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u64	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u65	Mr President, I would like to express my support for motions Nos. 191 (text 2) and 192.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I went to congratulate my colleague from the Movimento 5 Stars who had just spoken, because I fully agree with what he said. Rightly today we make an effort with our motion and also with the initiative to give a united message and concreteness to the commitments that we want to put in place; however what happened on November 12 (and not only) in Venice unfortunately, not only must we reflect and therefore make us assume very concrete commitments, which are contained in the first-signed motion of Senator Ferrazzi signed by us, but I believe that it imposes on all of us some reflections, because the fragility of Venice and the lagoon area was known to all of us and the debate in the country has been very long. Today this fragility puts at risk a heritage that is of our country but also of all humanity. I would like to remind you here because Venice is a symbol; very often, as Bonito Oliva said the other night, as Italians we are so used to living in beauty, because we are surrounded by it, that perhaps we do not even give it any more importance, we are not impressed, we do not feel wonder at the beauty itself. However, the fragility of the entire lagoon area required different choices from those that were taken forward: this is the real question. Today there is much discussion of the Mose; in these days, after what happened, we have discussed to understand why it has not been tried to lift its bulkheads, why it has not been finished, but the story of the Mose is unfortunately one of the many. In fact, I would like to recall here that, among other things, that work had seen, as Senator Ferrazzi remembers perfectly, also the opposition of the City of Venice (not of the current administration but at the time of Mayor Cacciari), because it was considered by many experts already old from the technological point of view and above all also dangerous for the balance of the lagoon. Then everything we know happened to that work, but I would like to remind everyone of what happened: the Mose project was entrusted without competition and without environmental impact assessment; it was started in 2003 at an estimated cost of 5 billion euros at the time, to which was added all the overload of evil, which was sanctioned by the judiciary. There were even 150 executive excerpts, but above all in our opinion it did not respond to the need for the safety of Venice and the lagoon. Among other things, Venice is even more fragile today. A few minutes ago we voted on the decree-climate law and we cannot forget the scenario in which today lies the story of Venice, that of climate change that will occur: the data that we are told really scare us because some forecasts even assume that in 2050 Venice will be completely submerged. You understand, therefore, that today we need an extra effort, a greater design capacity than we used in the past to intervene and secure Venice. It is then necessary to put in place a special plan to adapt to climate change precisely for the Venice lagoon to consider the de facto situation and the effects of climate change at least in the next decade. This means putting new resources and design ideas into place. Then there is another matter. The situation has worsened because in Venice there were also operations and interventions that have tampered with its balance in the lagoon. The tampering took place because operations have been carried out to make pass the great ships and participations that have put even more at risk the delicate balance of what is a very fragile and delicate ecosystem. The Venice lagoon is a living organism and therefore all the tampering and some inappropriate interventions have put it even more at risk. In the days of the Doges, the magistrate of the waters of Venice considered a serious crime to endanger or to do interventions to the detriment of its lagoon and anyone who committed it was prosecuted with very severe penalties. Then the importance of balance was clear. Unfortunately, in recent decades, everything that had been preserved and achieved over hundreds of years has been put at risk. I think of some choices made and, for example, in Porto Marghera, another story even older. Today we need to be aware of all this. Today, after all that has happened with the Mose it is evident - and we say it with regret - that at this point you will have to complete the work, but it will not be enough. We will need other initiatives; we will have to complete the regime of the contrast to the high waters, the safety and the protection of the island of San Marco, restore the dissipative capacity of the mouths and other interventions that tell us clearly that completing the Mose will not be enough, but on the contrary it could even aggravate the situation. Today we must put in place a series of other interventions that can really guarantee the balance and salvation for Venice. I conclude not only by announcing our favorable vote, but by clearly saying that the story of the special law for Venice today needs to be further focused and implemented and that today all this and all the participations, including the decision to close once and for all with the passage of the great ships in the lagoon of Venice, concluding definitively the story, must face them with a different perspective, that it takes even more account of the emergency given from the climatic changes. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u71	Before giving her the floor, I'd like to wish Senator Rosellina Sbrana a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u72	[[Applause.]] Today is obviously a very lucky day. Happy birthday on behalf of all and my staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u73	You have the floor, Senator Brollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u74	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, it is important today, beyond political affiliations, to take strong, common and planning action as a Senate. The Legambiente report speaks very clearly: from 2010 to the beginning of November 2019 there have been significant damage in 350 municipalities due to bad weather; seventy-three days stop by metro and train; seventy-two days of electric blackouts. The climate, as we know, has changed. We have talked a lot about it these days, approving - just now - the decree-law precisely on the climate. Unfortunately, however, we know that the floods of recent days in Venice, Chioggia and the entire coast of the Venetian beaches have caused enormous damage and devastation. Beaches devastated, even erased, prolonged drought periods; monsoon rains that cannot be absorbed by the earth or regimented by streams. Emergence that every year, while changing destination, continues to devastate the North-East: last year millions of plants cut down by the so-called perfect storm; this year the coast devastated by the sirocco, superimposed on the bora, which support the high water. It is no longer just a reflection, therefore: action is needed. Venice and the lagoons, Chioggia, Grado, are very special, unique and extremely fragile areas. For their uniqueness, however, they would need special attention. Now, with success, it is important to make a concrete contribution to a thorough review of the projects for the future of these realities. Lagoon realities so dear to the Venetians, of course, but known and esteemed all over the world: adored by the Russian world as well as by China and Japan; for seven hundred years ambassadors to various trade, international relations, culture and art. From Marco Polo onwards, the connection between East and West passes through Venice and its lagoons. One hundred percent of the city has been flooded and the smaller islands have been hit by tide and tide. And here, then, goes first of all our solidarity, our closeness to all Venetian and Venetian citizens, who immediately found the strength to react and not to complain, as it usually happens in these situations. Then we owe an infinite thanks to the fire department, to the civil protection, to the forces of order, to all those citizens and volunteers who have immediately worked to cope with the emergency, with dispassionate courage, to secure the territory. Some defensive and mechanical hydraulic actions cannot, however, be left out; rather, they must find immediate realizations. With the appointment of Elisabetta Spitz as Extraordinary Commissioner, we can hope that the system of dams disappearing the Mose will take place within 2021. I do not intend to enter into the thorny question of the quality of the project and its effectiveness, but we are certainly aware that alone it would not be able to face a situation similar to that which happened a few days ago or the situations of worsening of the climatic conditions that many now foresee in the future. Therefore, it is necessary to imagine, finance and implement a complex series of initiatives capable of safeguarding Venice, Chioggia and their lagoons, regardless of the functioning of the Mose. We need to put the economy of these areas back on track and do it quickly, but it is equally important to work to create a new education for citizens, in their domestic and municipal habits and policies of adaptation to climate change and prevention of risks and damage. The safeguard of Venice, its architectural and artistic system and the delicate ecosystem of the lagoon, involves so many initiatives that are interconnected and could not find the desired results if they were not brought to completion all and at the same time; what we have, precisely, called the dossier Venice: the tourist traffic, with the passage of the great ships through the Basin of San Marco and the Canal of Giudecca; the environmental and social sustainability of the city and the lagoon, invaded by tourists and abandoned by the resident population; the Bonifiches to Porto Marghera; the operation of the port; the traffic in the lagoon, which has reached unsustainable levels that cause serious and frequent security problems. Many - not all - problems that have never been solved, but that undermine this city and, unfortunately, predict a very critical future for the security of cultural heritage and the continuity of productive activities. On these general issues, problems arise contingently in Chioggia and Sottomarina. For these reasons, we ask that the Government undertake to take initiatives, to identify resources, to streamline procedures, to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of investments. Surely this Government has the possibility to mark a watershed between inefficiency and efficiency; between indifference to climate change and the conscious determination to put remedies: surely in construction, in the restructuring of the socio-economic context, in the policy able to give perspectives of cultural growth before economic, in the innovation of the proposal. To the Government, therefore, we ask to open to an extensible model also to other different but equally fragile realities that exist in Italy. Intelligent investments on the ground, the challenge of innovation also in the behaviour of society and the involvement of all socio-economic realities could prove to be a factor in relaunching the economy, an economy attentive to climate change and capable of establishing with citizens a pact of reconciliation with their territory and of choosing active behaviour and good practices to be carried out every day. A challenge that we ask the government to promote and interpret best. For all these reasons, like Italy Viva-PSI we will vote in favour. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u77	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, as the Brothers of Italy we express our satisfaction at the fact that, at least on this occasion, Parliament, first in the Chamber and now here in the Senate, unanimously pronounces on two convergent motions, which bring to general attention a problem of the country and the solutions that can be envisaged. Venice was hit - once again hit - by high water, large water, and threatened even in its existence; just as on the same day the city of Matera and other realities of our country were hit. Venice, I tell my colleagues who used to intervene, is the Italian maritime civilization, just as Matera is an expression of the rock civilization of our country. To some extent, both are the symbol of what we have been, but also of what we are, because we are what we have been over the millennia. Venice is not an open-air museum and we hope it will not become one: Venice is the showcase and symbol of the Italian company. Venice is the enterprise and was born as a business. For a safety issue it was born on the stilts, just as Matera was born for another safety issue in the caves. The men, in fact, then found safety on the stilts or in the caves. Venice as Matera built on security a civilization and an economy. Venice has been great in the world as a maritime power, with its shipowning ingenuity and not only, and as a commercial power. Let's talk about the Venetian merchants. This shows that we are a people of entrepreneurs. In Italy more than elsewhere - Venice is the symbol and the showcase - our ingenuity combines with our enterprise: denying our business means denying our ingenuity, our history, our culture, our art and denying Venice. This is so true that in Venice, in order to protect themselves against others, they invented, as colleagues know, modern economic intelligence. The so-called intelligence services invented them by the Venetians, so they could capture the other secrets and force them into their enterprise. In Venice, moreover, as colleagues know, the first code was born that defended the right to intellectual property: on intellectual property the Italian company was born. Venice is, therefore, the showcase of the country, of what we have been, of what we must continue to be as a company Italy and, at the same time, unfortunately, also of its problems. The problems of the flood of the waters concern Venice, Matera, but also other 7,275 Italian municipalities, which are at risk of exondation because our territory is fragile because the Po Valley was realized over millennia in what was a sea, because we are wedged in the Mediterranean and because the changes of the climate strike us more than elsewhere, as evidenced also the story of Venice and of the high water, that has happened other times in time, but never with the incidence of the last years, almost once a year. That we are in emergency emerged with all evidence in 1966, fifty-three years ago, when there was the disaster in Venice. Venice is a symbol, an emblem and a showcase of Italian problems. We had fifty-three years to react. Mose is a great work of Italian ingenuity, as Venice is. The city is a work of Italian engineering for how it was born, how it was built and how it established itself in the world. In the same way is the Mose, only that elsewhere and in other times those works were realized in a few months and in a few years while the Mose is a great work, which unfortunately has not yet been completed due to ignorance of the last Government, but not only. Mose can protect Venice and absolutely must be completed, but it is not the only solution for Venice. The city must not only be preserved, it must also solve the problem of mud, maintenance, the "attack" cruise in the city of Venice and, therefore, the management of tourist flows. At the same time, in order to defend and preserve it, it is necessary to defend and preserve its territory and its economy. Senator colleagues, being Brothers of Italy a patriotic party, but also pragmatic, at this stage to the opposition but with a culture of government, on 1 August 2018 - I address my colleagues of the Democratic Party and of the majority who in the device of their motion envisaged this proposal as essential - we presented a bill in this Parliament to establish a special economic zone (ZES) in the city of Venice. That bill, I believe, was then assigned to the Finance Committee, which never scheduled or incardinated it. As ours is a patriotic and pragmatic force, so stubborn, we have tabled that bill in the form of amendments to the last budget; those amendments have been rejected by you. Obstinate as we are, we have presented them in almost every measure compatible during this legislature and you have always opposed to realizing the special economic zone in Venice. Today, having retabled that same amendment to the draft budget law which is being examined by the competent Commission, we learn that the new majority has finally convinced itself of the need to set up this area. It is enough, therefore, that our legislative proposal, tabled more than a year ago in Parliament, is adopted or that our amendments to the budget law are approved. But, being ours a patriotic and pragmatic force, we are also willing to vote for your amendments, which you copy from ours, even though they bear yours and not our name, provided that finally a special economic zone is realized, that in our opinion should concern both the port of Venice and that of Genoa, because they have the same characteristics of emergency and opportunity, being the terminals of the great trans-European shipping corridors. For this reason we asked the extension of the ZES from the marine ports of the South to these two great ports of connection of our Country, that unfortunately, in the meantime, they have been hit, in different way but equally grave, from two tragedies that have brought to evidence their fragility. Venice is definitely the showcase of Italy and its touristic image in the world. The airport of Venice is the one that most develops in Italy, because it is the destination of these new tourist flows, economic, commercial and not only; but Venice is also an economic pole symbol of the degradation of our country, as evidenced by the story of the chemistry of Marghera, which represented a great Italian industrial supply chain and was closed. In these hours the Italian steel industry, the other major Italian strategic sector, is also in danger of being closed down. Without an overall vision of the entrepreneurial nature of Italy, its territory and how to combine our culture and our history with our business and economy, the country ends up being flooded: it disappears from the panorama of our history and global history. This is why today's common vote is important, but above all the signal that the ruling class, even before the country, must give, to show that it has an overall plan of what we are and what we want to continue to be in the global scenario. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pizzol.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u80	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I express closeness and solidarity to all the residents of the lagoon, who have suffered damage and suffering at the 12 November event. I would also like to express my thanks to all those - institutions, police, fire department, volunteers - who have acted to ensure the public safety of the Venetians and others who have suffered damage and to enable them to overcome the emergency. This is the beautiful face of our country. Today we are talking about Venice, but it was good for my colleague Pittella to remember that there have been other events, on which obviously there can only be the same attention. In any case, from the first hours (I believe it happened to all those who know the city of Venice well), through the information that he acquired from friends felt in the immediacy of the facts or through social media (I remember a site, "La Voce of Venice") it was understood well that something had happened that the Venetians did not remember or that, to a large extent, had not known, since the last time had happened fifty-three years ago. Venice is an identity element of our country; there has been an important history of Italy, so much so that, without a doubt, we can place a cultural centrality without equal. It is no coincidence that Venice is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site, recognized all over the world. Today's response from the Senate - and I will remember that - after the response from the House of Deputies, it is further confirmation that Parliament has very clear what has happened and what is to be done. It is the Italian Parliament that responds, on behalf of all Italians, also because, as is clear, no Italian could endure structural and permanent damage to a city that is an anthropological symbol of our country. In any case, due to the fragility of the lagoon and the city of Venice in particular, it is not only necessary to talk about the electromechanical experimental module (Mose); other measures and other actions are also needed, such as the constant maintenance of an area that is basically immersed in the sea. We need the excavation of the channels; we need the consolidation of the foundations. Special Law No 171 of 1973 essentially focused on the socio-economic revitalization of the city. That idea, that strong ideality, that ratio could not be understood only in defensive function - which is then the reason of the Mose - but meant a union of multiple actions aimed at growth, development, as well as the defense of a fragile and very delicate territory. Well, if there was then that convinced action in favour of Venice, it must be now for the things that still have to be done compared to the further changes that Venice has had to endure. There are many commitments, as mentioned in Mr Ferrazzi's first-signed motion: not only must Mose be dealt with, because there is something else. Venice is also tormented by other problems, such as the wave motion caused by the large traffic in the lagoon; the overcrowding tourist; the cross traffic; the depopulation of the historical city; the failure to reclamation of Porto Marghera. Continuous resources are needed to strengthen the foundations, clean the channels and approve the new Sludge Protocol. It is for this reason that Parliament and the Government need to allocate resources and then I will make an even clearer reference. These issues must be the subject of the committee of 26 November which the President-in-Office of the Council has wisely and immediately convened. On the other hand, the Government immediately gave an answer with the presence of ministers and with some choices that I will list. The same president of the Senate Alberti Casellati went to the city of Venice, obviously on behalf of the whole Senate of the Republic. Therefore, starting from these positive data, I am confident that the same emotional tension may continue to exist. And to do what? I would like to refer to the intervention of my previous colleague on the special economic zone (SEZ) and we would like to see joint work starting from the budget law to achieve this objective. We have decided on the state of disaster, the immediate economic availability we know, a decision has been made on the supercommissary of Venice and on the resources we have asked for as the Democratic Party Group in the next budget law. I conclude by saying that the visits of the representatives of the Government and of the President of the Senate, the fact that Venice is spoken here and in the House and that motions will be voted on, make me well hope that this universal heritage will be defended as the whole world asks us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u83	Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago Venice was hit by exceptional high water that caused considerable damage and left us Venetians, Italy and the whole world in great trepidation for its fate. An enchanting city, rich in centuries of history and priceless values, but also so delicate and that such an event can ruin forever, such as the mosaics of St. Mark's Basilica or the ancient books finished underwater. The tide flooded churches, restaurants, craft shops, houses, shops, schools and museums, it spared nothing and nobody; it covered Murano and its glassworks, Burano and all the islands of the Venetian coast; not even Chioggia and Pellestrina were saved where it also caused victims. I felt helpless in the face of the news coming, to my city invaded by water, to my friends and acquaintances who had unnecessarily placed the bulkheads on the doors of the houses and shops. Our mayor in tears to see the city reduced so is definitely one of the images that best represents the state of mind of all Venetians. Our beloved president Luca Zaia was as grieved as when you see a family person who is sick. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Minuto]] He has always been on the front line to coordinate the Civil Protection machine, along with the Councillor Bottacin and all the other regional councillors and advisors. With regard to Mose and those five billion iron that have remained under water, President Zaia has rightly said that things are never left in half and must be completed quickly to avoid the repetition of other disasters. Our secretary Salvini and the representatives of the government visited our city and touched with hand the disaster that Venice suffered. Some vaporets, abandoned the moorings, were thrown on the foundations by a wind of bora and sirocco that reached one hundred kilometers per hour and seemed surreal installations of the Biennale, like some boats ended in the calluses. The Venetians, however, did not cry on themselves. They immediately rolled up their sleeves and started cleaning, sweeping and drying. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Hundreds of garbage bags, household appliances, shops, houses and hotels have been disposed of. The calluses have been filled with furniture, tables and chairs, with so many people committed to recovering what is possible and in pain there has been so much solidarity and human warmth. A swarm of people at work: those who cleaned, those who dried and swept, the boys at home from school, the Civil Protection, the Fire Department and all the Forces of the Order helped and worked hard. Our sincere thanks go to all of them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Venice is a wonderful city, heritage of humanity and Italian pride and Venetian us for the centuries of history of our Republic of Venice. We are all proud of our winged Leo, impressed on old fortifications and buildings, both in Italy and abroad, on the other side of the Adriatic and up to Crete. Fifty - three years have passed since November 4, 1966, when the large water had reached 194 centimeters on the medium sea. About ten days ago it came to 187 cm and it was another disaster. Very large the damage of the salt tide that can be quantified only over time. In these fifty-three years it has been studied, designed and realized only partially a solution - the Mose - without ending it. Our extreme indecision in dealing with the problems and solving them to the full has caused today's disasters. We can no longer afford to ask ourselves whether it is the best solution or not. It is of fundamental importance to complete the work, to test it as soon as possible and to be able to use it to save our city, unique in the world and which deserves to be protected and safeguarded as a heritage not only Venetian, but Italy and the whole world. We see that other nations are much faster in building the great works, while in Italy there is an exasperating slowness and the work collapses under a cast of rules and bureaucracy. We all remember the corruption that has grown around this work, but if we do not learn to act quickly and to strike the evil with certain and severe pains, we will always be late and we will be late, as in this case. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Italians need rulers who solve problems in the short term and it is desirable to show them that they are able to do so in an honest and transparent manner. In order to do this, the works and works necessary for the completion and operation of the Mose must be financed immediately, so that citizens can appreciate what has been achieved with the sums available. The Mose alone is not enough, because they serve the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, the excavations of the canals, useful to render more operational also the port, to consolidate the foundations, to safeguard the inhabited centers, to invest in the residence, to raise the insults and, last but not least, to reclaim Porto Marghera and the immense industrial area. The Government has already convened the Venice Safeguards Committee for November 26 and will have to provide not only for refinance, but also to update the special law. I hope, also on behalf of the entire Lega-Salvini Premier Group, that the disaster that has just occurred will prompt all interested parties to find fast solutions and reliable resources. I am sure that the attention of this assembly goes in the right direction for the protection of my beloved city, in approving the motions today on the agenda. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u86	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all, I should like to express my sincere thanks - I also believe on behalf of the Italian Parliament - to all the people who have worked for the immediate emergency, but also for the activities of the following days. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I am thinking of the many volunteers, I am thinking of Civil Protection, I am thinking of the Forces of Order, I am thinking of the municipal administration of Venice and of all those who have not been physically to Venice, but who have done their part, such as in the case of the Council of Ministers, which has decided on the first EUR 20 million as a matter of urgency. There has been a call for solidarity, which was not a obvious fact; for this to be done and we must be grateful. Although I am a Venetian of land, as I was born and lived and still alive on the bridge, I know that the tides in Venice are an absolutely normal fact and are also predictable, because they depend on a combined gravitational arrangement of sun and moon; they occur mainly in some periods of the year. What is not predictable, but that is possible, as demonstrated by the two great exceptional events that occurred over fifty years (in 1966 and 12 November 2019), is that the arranged combination of the winds, in particular of the winds of sirocco, can cause devastating phenomena, that is exceptional tides that lead to submerged 100 percent of the city. It is not an alluvial phenomenon of violent water, but it is the water that pushes from the bottom of the city and, in some churches or in some public and private buildings, it even causes a problem of raising the floor, linked to the pressure of water. So it is a phenomenon that, even if it lasts little, has devastating effects. This extraordinary tide, in my opinion, has also had positive effects. One of these is that today it forces the Italian Parliament and the institutions are forced to finally reflect on this problem, giving rise to three considerations. The first is that we finally assume awareness - if someone had not had it - that Venice has a social, cultural and artistic historical value that is unique and that it is not a local fact, but Italian, European and global. The second reflection that comes from this event is that, if we care about the future of Venice, we must overcome a prejudice that I call the environmentalism of the rearguard: we cannot think about the future of Venice except through a human intervention. Do you know why, colleagues? Because Venice was born and lived thanks to the intervention of man. In 1330, the Serenissima Republic diverted the mouth and course of the river Brenta. Think of what would happen if today in Italy we opened a debate to divert the course of a river: it would be impossible to do so. Yet, the Serenissima, in order to save the city of water, decided to divert the course not only of the Brenta, but in the following years also of eight other rivers that had the mouth in the lagoon and that would have produced an effect for which today we could park our car in Piazza San Marco, that is the burial of the lagoon. The reflection on the future, therefore, must also be done being able to clear the anthropic intervention, to clear the works of safeguard of the city. The third positive element that generated this extraordinary tide is a common responsibility of the Italian political community and I hope not only for this; a responsibility that, from my point of view, must be mentioned in some passages. The first is that the 20 million allocated is fine, but the level of damage the city has suffered this time is very high, which are estimated at about one billion euros, so the issue of emergency funds must be addressed very seriously already in the budget law and in the next measures. It is not enough to respond with EUR 20 million. The second step is that of moving dams. I want to speak out of all hypocrisy, I know that Mose is an issue that embarrassssssssing the political community and also the civil community, because judicial truth has touched much of the constitutional arc, the Forces of Order, the administrative judiciary and many of us have been very far from asking for account of the state of progress of this work. However, I believe that today there is a common responsibility to recognize that on the subject of the defense of the city from the high and extraordinary tides, which are not 100, but may be some during the year, this work of extraordinary engineering must be completed quickly and must be put into operation because it is the only way to protect Venice from this phenomenon. The third step is that of the special law. I joined the Regional Council in 2005 and was Regional Councillor for eight, in which I was a member of the Special Commission for Venice, which evaluated the allocation of funds under the Special Law. With the special law it has been built in part the Mose and they have made many works of safeguard, that belong to the city of Venice, but that they also concern the safety of the rivers, of the Metropolitan City, the coastal system, the cities of the coast. The special law for the safeguard of Venice has known, through the contraction of the capacity of public finance, an always inferior availability until reaching zero and therefore today there is a special law in force for Venice, but there are no funds to implement the measures that are required in that law. We believe that the defense of the city must also be guaranteed through a refinancing and a novelization of this law. I am also thinking of the identification of certain resources which must come, for example, from local taxation, as is the case for all the special Statutes (it is not by chance called special), otherwise we risk finding ourselves in this situation in a few years. This means money, but also powers. It will make this Assembly laugh, but one of the questions raised by the Venetian community is: who will decide to raise the moving dams when there are emergencies? Because to date it is not yet decided which authority is responsible for recognizing the exceptional event and lifting the dams, which do not rise in five minutes, because it takes about three and a half hours to raise them. So it's something that needs to be managed, planned, and there must be bodies that are responsible for this. Venice is a city - I told my colleague Massimo Ferro - where there are twelve administrative levels of competence on the same subjects. Think what a mess it will be if there is no special law that can clarify the administrative procedures to defend the city. The phenomenon happened at 23.15, so the editors made some titles of a certain type, but the next day, when there was in the newspapers the chronicle of this extraordinary event, an important daily, perhaps the most important North-East, headlined the whole column: "Venice humiliated". It hurt me because I who am Venetian, who know the Venetians and I attended them and felt like some of you, I didn't get the impression that Venice was humiliated. Venice was hurt. Venice is a resilient city, because when these things happen, you get busy, you fix things, you call it the technician, the volunteer who fixes the electrical and the water system. In the churches they tried to make the first pile-up on the damage caused to the artistic goods. It's a resilient city where people get busy and try to make things right. It is not the high water or an exceptional tide that humiliates Venice: what humiliates Venice is the disinterest and ignorance of the political community, and on this we really have a great shared responsibility. The gesture we are making today, which was also made yesterday in the Chamber, is to vote together, although we know that we also have differences of view on certain specific points. We assume the responsibility to vote together on a commitment of Parliament and the Italian people not to lower the threshold of attention on the issue of safeguarding a city that is unique, global and special. Mr President, in Venice we say: Duri i pacchi!In other words, we are all ready, firm and committed to the protection of this unique and extraordinary city. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u89	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Venice was born on water and the Venetians know it, because they have in their DNA the rhythm of the tides. For six hours the water rises and for six hours the water drops. But today the tides are exceptional, because the sirocco is thrown into the canals where fragile boats are no longer able to support those winds. Among the submerged houses, the stranded vaporets, between mud and anger, was born also a call to arms, a match of young people. I like to talk to young people: I talk about them because they bring us their example, that we really have to carry on here. A flood of Italian students poured into Venice bringing the contribution not only physical but also moral and helping for what they can. They called them the angels of high water. The whole country is also close to its citizens, so badly affected; to businesses and productive activities, which have suffered considerable damage; to the world of art and culture, which sees entire historical capitals in serious danger; to the city institutions, which will have to heal this grave wound. The city of Venice and its lagoon have once again suffered this flooding. Beyond the considerations on the delay in effective operation of the Mose infrastructure, this still highlights the delay of a clear plan to combat climate change. As I have heard before, we must assume our responsibility and today in this House we commit the Government to intervene with extreme urgency with concrete and current measures, starting from the refinancing and organic reform of the special law for Venice, through the reduction of the fragmentation of the ordinary and special powers provided for the protection of the lagoon city. Unfortunately, however, no part of the Italian territory can be considered immune from the effects of man's action on nature and the costs related to the hydrogeological failure of the Italian territory are clear and are estimated at around 2.5 billion euros per year; a figure that will increase over the next decades, because there will also be costs related to the containment of fires and the safety of the various territories. This is why it is necessary and urgent to combat climate change in a determined manner and with uniformity of direction throughout the country, approving as soon as possible the National Plan of adaptation to climate change, identifying actions and policies of mitigation and adaptation of the territory that take strongly into account the most vulnerable areas, at greater hydrogeological risk, that are increasingly affected by weather events now out of control. In motion 192, therefore, we requested what we believe is necessary: to identify resources to deal with the damage caused by the phenomenon of high tide in all the territories of the Municipalities of Venice and Chioggia; proceed, as a matter of priority, to supplement, pending the completion and implementation of the Mose system with urgent measures to combat and mitigate high water; adequately refinance in the first useful measure, starting from the bill of budget currently under consideration, the special law for the metropolitan city of Venice, identifying the appropriate structural sources of financing, preparing an organic plan of urban maintenance operations widespread, ecological, infrastructure and building of the historical city for the protection of the lagoon of Venice; also to provide for fiscal measures that allow the system of companies, craftsmen and local traders hard hit by the environmental disaster to cope with unforeseen expenses and to support the relaunch of their activities; also accelerate the realization of the interventions of reclamation of the site (which we know well) of Venice and Porto Marghera. We therefore ask that all useful initiatives be taken for the country, that identify with extreme urgency actions and policies of mitigation and adaptation of the territory, taking into account the fact that there are various areas at great risk: we also talk about what happened in other areas, as well as in Matera. In conclusion, as far as the city of Venice is concerned, it will also be necessary to manage the tourist flows in order to protect the resilience of the territory, the fragile balance between the anthropic and the natural, in order to protect also the quality of life of the residents. Venice still lies before our eyes as it was in the final period of its decadence; a ghost on the sands of the sea so weak, so silent, so stripped of everything other than its beauty and sometimes, when we admire its languid reflection in the lagoon, we remain uncertain about what the city is and what the shadow is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u90	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 191 (text 2), tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo, Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion No. 192, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] That concludes the debate on motions. (at 13.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u93	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to raise a cry of pain and anger at the confrontation that the Italian people are suffering because of another country in the European Union, Germany. In 2007 there was a major accident in the ThyssenKrupp steel works in Turin, where seven workers died, burned alive. In 2016 there were convictions for two German citizens, of which I want to say here the names: Harald Espenhahn, CEO of ThyssenKrupp, and Gerald Priegnitz, director of the Turin plant. Despite the two convictions that took place in 2016, these two people are still on the loose, comfortably in their homes, in their country, in Germany. Italy did what it had to do; the Italian courts and prosecutors asked for the order of execution the following day of the passage into court of judgments, but the competent German court of appeal has opposed formalities. First, although there was a translation into German of the judgment passed in court, he asked for translations of all the acts of the first two degrees, thus delaying the time of criminal execution. In 2018, our Minister of Justice answered a question asking what had been done about it and reported to us what had happened until December 2018. He gave us explanations about this and reassured us that they were following the case and that they were in contact with all the competent German authorities. Well, one year after those reassurances, nothing has happened yet. Last week, the European Court of Human Rights opened proceedings against Germany and Italy, because the sentence has not yet been executed, three years later. In summary: the facts are from 2007 and we had to arrive to 2016, because unfortunately our procedural system is so guaranteeing to bring to these times, in order to ascertain the responsibilities and still to date has not been executed the sentence. I would like to remind you that, under the penal code, the sentences are pronounced in the name of the Italian people. I have put a question to ask the Minister for Justice what has been done so far, but I ask you, Mr President, to do so, with regard to the President of the Council, in order to ask that all diplomatic actions be put in place in order to put an end to this defiance to the Italian people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u96	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, the question that Mr Crucioli was talking about a year ago in the Commission was my signature and it was about exactly that tragic event which, once again, focuses on working conditions, workers and safety at the workplace. I too have tabled a new question calling on the Minister-in-Office to take account of the steps taken, not only the legal and formal steps that have been mentioned (translation of judgments), but also all those necessary from the diplomatic point of view. I therefore agree with the request that has just been made and I would add that, in this and in other cases, there is the question of what Europe is about from this point of view as well. I believe that the Italian Parliament must promote, through its representatives in the European Parliament, a structure of international legal cooperation, also given the undeniable supranational dimension of the economy and of the companies operating in Italy. In this judgment there is a clear difference of treatment: the Italian defendants are serving the sentence and, among other things, I would like to stress that this was a very complex process, in which the prosecutor and the Turin court took charge of the speed of the times, considering the argument and the suffering of an entire community. Now we need not only direct steps towards Germany, but also more discipline to give us more guarantees from this point of view. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind myself and the House that we recently adopted a document setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into working conditions in Italy, exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces. Well, I believe that Commissions of this nature have the task - through investigations - of producing useful proposals to give more tools in relation to what is one of the biggest causes of deaths in our country. We know that the news is dramatic: we are talking about deaths at work, and it is never enough to remember what we are doing in this House. We have an institutional task, that is to find solutions so that such things never happen again. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u97	I thank Senators Crucioli and Rossomando for their intervention. As far as the prerogatives of the Presidency are concerned, the requests made are of course accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u100	VANIN (M5S). Mr President, senators and senators, I too am here to remember what happened in Venice, my city. I remember - as others have already done - that on November 12, last Tuesday, Venice, Chioggia and the coast all, with its islands and its beaches, were devastated by an exceptional tide, little lower - for a few centimetres - than what the Venetians remember as an indelible scar: the Aqua Granda of 1966. 11.25 p.m. (Followed by Mr Vanin). If that was 194 centimeters, on Tuesday it was 187: the highest level, after that of 1966. It was a disastrous event, to say the least, that brought the whole city to its knees: the citizens, the craftsmen - those few left, because they have been made to run away with the bad choices made so far, also in the management of the administration - the merchants of the historical center, vexed by the sale of the chincaglierie that arrive in the containers in the port of Venice; the fishermen that live in a polluted lagoon; the families and residents of the city and of the whole lagoon, with its small and precious islands, that for UNESCO are a heritage of humanity, but it seems that for us they are very little. I want to remember Chioggia, almost fifty thousand inhabitants; the Lido of Venice, Pellestrina, the island of the Armenians, with its treasures, Burano, Torcello, the coast from Jesolo to Cavallino, Caorle and all the lagoon eaves, all. In a few minutes from the exceptional wave - as has been known - the bora wind and the scirocco wind have raised the water level. Here it is necessary a specific because, unfortunately, the Tide Center of the City of Venice at 21 had signaled that there would be the intensity of winds and would rise the water levels, speaking of 150-165 centimeters. But already so the city is blocked, it is still, still, because you do not know what will happen. At 22.53 comes the alarm, the warning worrying, emergency. The lagoon suffers the effects of no expected wind bursts from 100 kilometers per hour. The level could reach 190 centimeters at 23.30. So, we're almost in the middle of the night. At 22.50 tidal water rises fast, so much, and so quickly flows, leaving damage, dismay, darkness and silence. It is difficult to understand this experience if you don't live it: the water that rises in the dark, enters the house, emerges from the floors, invades the houses, the shops, the workshops of the craftsmen, the warehouses, invades everything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vanin, I must invite you to conclude. VANIN (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. The following hours will be moments of fear and terror, always immersed in the same water and with the same fear. The damage in cultural heritage cannot be calculated and, therefore, an immediate mobilization of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage is necessary, which will have to have an appropriate task force over time and stable in the city. I cannot but say a few words about the Conservatory of music Benedetto Marcello and all the foundations, with their manuscripts and scores that have unfortunately been forgotten, immersed for days in brackish water. The concern, therefore, for the uncontrolled levels of the tides, which combine with unexpected and unpredictable climatic events, is now constant, a reality that we can no longer consider an exception. But it is not only the tide: it is the protection of the lagoon environment, where to dig other canals and widen the existing ones in order to get the great ships, inside a lagoon that has an average depth of one and a half meters; this means to destroy an already fragile and compromised balance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Venice needs works, planned, planned and continuous interventions: the cleaning of the canals, the rehabilitation of the rii, the maintenance of the habitat and the city. And it's not just Mose. Far too much has been said about the Mose, which must be finished and tested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I have to invite you to conclude again. VANIN (M5S). Two more seconds, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Only one, Senator, because I assure you that we are far beyond the time allowed for the late-session speeches. VANIN (M5S). But consider what happened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's the only reason he has more time. VANIN (M5S). I would just like to say that, as over the centuries, the Serenissima has established the judiciary of the waters, so today we believe that the city needs not only special legislation, but also structural and system-based regulatory intervention. Venice and the lagoon are not an infrastructure to be managed, but a single environment to be protected, fragile and precious, unique in the world. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u103	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the exceptional wave of bad weather that has been pouring into Italy in recent days has seen South Tyrol as one of the most affected territories. In particular, in Val Pusteria and in Val Venosta whole areas have remained completely isolated, with roads closed due to the fall of trees; snow avalanches reached even to the center of the countries; absence of electricity and yesterday also the derailment of a train because of a landslide that fortunately did not record injured or dead. During these very great hours are the effort and commitment by the entire relief network, in particular the volunteers of the firemen and civil protection. It is an extraordinary network that in these days demonstrates, once again, all its value and importance. So I give them a heartfelt thanks, Danke, dilan. This is not just a matter of words, but of helping volunteering with concrete measures. In this respect, I would like to point out a number of amendments on this subject that I have tabled to the budget law for which I am calling and, indeed, I am demanding actual results. Finally, I would like to stress the closeness of South Tyrol to the organizations and all the volunteers who in Venice, Matera and in the other affected territories are offering relief and comfort with the same commitment as our volunteers. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and FI-BP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u106	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, a number of events these days mean that this speech, which I had requested to be able to make the day before yesterday, comes today with two important aspects to stress. First of all, the central objective was to recall the International Day of Child Rights and Adolescence, linking it in particular to the 30th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It seemed interesting to me that this could be mentioned in this House, bearing in mind that the problems that exist are important and concern unaccompanied minors - to name but a few - to the serious problems faced by adolescents, even in the face of problems that are far from irrelevant if we think only of the latest facts relating to the use of drugs, the deaths of Saturday evenings and the massacres. This is a whole series of issues on which it seemed interesting to me to draw our attention also and especially because I wondered with great astonishment why the two Committees of Inquiry - one of which was even established by a law passed by the whole Parliament (the one on Forteto) - were silenced. I did, however, as well as I could, other types of intervention; I made them with press releases trying to intervene in all possible debates. A few minutes ago - the iPhones from this point of view represent a valuable instrument - I received a message that the Committee of Inquiry into Forteto was convened on 3 December. I wondered if there was a relationship between the insistence with which we called for it, between the explicit reference to the Day dedicated to the rights of children and the drama of so many situations that we know. It seems to me, as always, that too often we arrive late to take care of problems that we know. In this same climate, I draw attention to a series of questions addressed to the Minister of Justice, who has no justification because he was present in the first and second Governments of the 18th legislature always as Minister of Justice, to which we have always pointed out cases of minors removed from families, abuses in the diagnosis of parental alienation syndrome (PAS), which is totally unknown by the scientific world and which, instead, is abused at the level of courts and service and which, however, becomes a sort of grimaldello to which we resort in order to distance young people from families. I welcome the fact that the Commission can at least begin to turn itself in on Tuesday 3 December. However, I have to say that politics and Parliament, as a high and maximum expression of the policy itself, should not always spend so much, too much time; they should not take so much pressure exclusively to protect - in this particular case - the welfare of fragile children or with particular difficulties, which we too often postpone compared to other situations and conditions. Children need our attention, just as we need to hope for a future generation that is better than us and we need to work in this direction. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u109	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on a recent decision of the Constitutional Court, No 236, published last week, which follows a regional law of my region, Liguria, representative of a new fact in this country. Since Costa was Minister of the Environment, all the regional laws of all Italian regions relating to wildlife management have been challenged before the Constitutional Court, on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment. I think it never happened: 100% of all Italian regions, of any political color. I leave out the assessment of political importance and the fact that this issue deserves to be addressed not only in an end-of-session speech. It is known to all that the Movimento 5 Stars does not love the Regions; it is also known that the Regions do not love the Movimento 5 Stars, which in fact do not strike a blow in any Region and perhaps they are also good to evaluate that they do not even show up anymore in the regional elections. The equally curious fact that I want to point out is that, when, in September 2018, the Regional Council of Liguria fired with a broad majority the regional law on this matter, a group of regional advisors of the Movimento 5 Stars publicly appealed, also in the newspapers, to Minister Costa, asking for a political intervention so that that regional law was challenged. I am not talking about a crazy law: I am talking about a regional law that incorporates the regulation of taxidermy and embalming activity, a distant theme also compared to an emotional interest. The 5 Star Councillors appeal to Minister Costa for the law to be challenged - I read it as a political appeal - and the instrumental use of the position led to an appeal by the Council of Ministers, on a strict proposal from that Ministry. Last week came the decision of the Constitutional Court, one of the first, which clearly and clearly wronged Minister Costa and the Ministry of the Environment and confirmed that the law of the Liguria Region was perfectly legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It has thus restored a clear and clear normality, with respect to a political interest in partisanism, which should travel on a track other than the raising of the question of constitutionality of the laws in the Council of Ministers. I do not go so far in the matter, but also this time, as I have repeatedly reported in the Assembly, certain forms of animalist extremism, certain blind eyes not to see how the world travels, lead to causing damage - in this case to the Liguria Region - to the affected Region and to important economic activities. And this time too, they have led Minister Costa to make a terrible impression. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u112	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days in many parts of the world we remember Luigi Negrelli, an Italian engineer, Trentino, pioneer of the railway; a civil engineer of world standing. Negrelli is known above all for having laid out the first project for the construction of the Suez Canal, of which precisely in these days the 150th anniversary of the opening, officially took place on 17 November 1869. Negrelli was born in 1799 at Fiera di Primiero, graduated in engineering and, just twenty years old, was called to work as a practitioner at the direction of the public works of Tyrol and Vorarlberg, dealing in particular with road and hydraulic works in Val Pusteria, along the course of the Adige. Later he moved to Switzerland, where he was the designer of the first national railway linking Zurich to Baden and here he studied systems to allow trains to overcome very high levels. He worked on the construction of road arteries, piers and bridges, building in particular the bridge of Münster on the river Limmat and the railway bridge over the Vltava, the longest in the Czech Republic. At the end of the first Italian War of Independence, he moved to Lombardo-Veneto to reset the road and railway arteries damaged by the conflict. He rebuilt the railway line between Milan and Venice and from 1850 he designed the new railway of Brenner, between Verona and Bolzano. I have remembered some of the most significant stages for a world that the ingenious primierotto has contributed to make a little'smaller', thanks to the realization of the Suez Canal, that has allowed to shorten the naval routes towards the East, allowing the navigation directed from the Mediterranean to the Indian Ocean, without the necessity to circumnavigate Africa. The construction lasted fifteen years and to this great work of hydraulic engineering are traced numerous results of importance, not only engineering, but also social, that has in fact marked a great change in the commercial history at the world level. On Saturday, November 23, the community of Primiero will celebrate the anniversary through a commemorative day, during which the conference will be held "Il sogno di Negrelli" (The Dream of Negrelli) as part of the IV International Prize dedicated to him. This edition will address the issues of sustainable mobility and connections in the Alpine territories of the third millennium. It will also be named after him a garden. Remembering and celebrating Luigi Negrelli's ingenuity means recognizing his exceptional and multifaceted personality, which stands out for some peculiar elements that have proved to be strategic strengths: being born in a frontier land; early bilingualism, then perfected with experiences abroad; the thirst for knowledge and continually putting oneself to the test in different contexts, demonstrating tenacity and determination, all peculiar aspects of being Trentino. And for thirty years I can't help but remember that our wonderful land over the years has given birth to visionary personalities, who have been able to overcome natural and political barriers. Negrelli, like De Gasperi, was one of the first to believe in the dream of a peaceful and united Europe. To the younger generations the burden and the honor of carrying on this tradition, aware that, even looking at the example of the predecessors, from a small land you can reach any goal, if you have the determination and the ability to look beyond the borders. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u115	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, 20 November, the International Day of the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence was thirty years old. Despite the fact that every day there is a need to recognize the sacred rights of children, their respect as people and it is strongly reiterated that children come first, I report some episodes that have as protagonists children and adolescents who leave very perplexed. There is a thread that unites them: they are very sad episodes that must be a reason for reflection for all of us and that however, regardless of the different dynamics in which they have occurred, represent a boulder that weighs on the civic conscience of a community and demonstrate, once again, the lack of attention to the problem of disability and diversity as a whole and its multiform aspects. These episodes confirm, where ever necessary, that the process of integration and overcoming cultural barriers and prejudices, which often stand in the way of achieving that path of solidarity and respect for the human person, is not yet fully realized. I want to remember the episode of Daniele, a 16-year-old athlete of cyclocross with mental disabilities, to which the Italian cycling Federation has denied the possibility to register for 2020 at the Italian Cyclocross Championship, contrary to what happened in previous years. Another misadventure happened to Michele Pio, a 18-year-old high school student, disabled, experienced swimmer, victim of a serious form of discrimination in school: he was excluded from the project of a swimming course in the pool without even being notified. Finally, but not for importance, I want to remember what happened to a disabled black child, victim of an episode of racial intolerance on a bus by a woman sitting at his side: he, innocent and unconscious creature with his good and intelligent eyes, and the woman, closed in her prejudices, with contemptuousness refuses to be close to him. The other bus occupants reacted unanimously. The woman was isolated and redargued as follows: The world belongs to everyone, especially to children. This unanimous reaction is fortunately a big signal that makes us hope for the future. Events like this are still a wake-up call. There is still a long way to go. The achievement of that social balance in which tolerance, integration and solidarity are the cementing factor of common living is still very far away. We must work together to ensure that diversity, in its multiform expressions, is no longer considered as the cause of confrontation or affirmation of an alleged superiority, but can represent an enrichment and a means of aggregation for all of us. Respecting diversity means understanding the true meaning of life. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u118	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to remind myself, this House and, above all, my fellow countrymen, particularly the materanians, and to ring the bell to the Counte-a Government, the Government that deals with itself as the Government of the South; the Government composed of southerners among the southerners, even the Government of Lucans. In my land, in fact, for someone it was a reason for pride that there were even two lucans in the Executive Count-A. I would like to ring the bell and remind the public a little: the government, with all these supposed characteristics, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 14 November forgot to declare the state of emergency also for the city of Matera. Unfortunately, this lack of attention on the part of the Government towards the South, and in particular Matera, has also manifested itself in other circumstances. One last episode happened yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies, where during the debate for the approval of the so-called earthquake decree, regarding art bonus, the city of Matera was completely excluded and was recovered only thanks to an amendment of the League - the first signatory Marzio Liuni - that was approved. The attention from the League towards the South, Basilicata and Matera is manifested in an even stronger way in the examination of the budget law that we will go to deepen in the coming weeks when, thanks to the League and the first signatory Matteo Salvini, an amendment will be examined with which the appropriation for Matera is expected to be 400 million for the year 2020. This government needs to move. The majority have the possibility to accept the amendment of Matteo Salvini and the League to improve the budget law. We all hope that such carelessness towards the South and Basilicata will not occur yet. On the other hand, this is the concrete example of a teaching: keeping the South at heart does not mean being born, it does not mean living there, that is not enough. It is not enough to have been born or to live there, but it is necessary to love it and, from what has been seen in recent weeks and months, it does not seem to me that the current Government breaks out of love for the South. After all, I am not surprised, for it is the worthy heir of that political class that, filling its mouth with southernism, brought us to the bone and brought us to our knees. This is an example that we will oppose because those who love the South love Italy and put it back on track in a unique and strong way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u121	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, on Monday, November 18, Operation Achei of the Procurator of Crotone - the protagonists of the Carabinieri of the Core protects cultural heritage, but also 21 provincial commands of the Carabinieri (from the tip of the boot to Bolzano) and international police structures - shed light on a traffic of archaeological finds that from Calabria took the way to North Italy and abroad. Archaeological crime in Calabria is the name that has been conventionally given to the organization now dismantled. The videos of the Cultural Heritage Center are impressive for the almost military efficiency they document: the maneuvering, in fact - the so-called tombers - also used small excavators to easily reach the depth of the graves, open them and strip them of precious items or to devastate the pits full of ex-vote. And the criminals acted without fear, both in wooded areas and in open-air areas, both in internal and isolated territories, as well as in archaeological sites of public property and of great importance, such as the sanctuary of Apollo Aleo in Punta Alice di Cirò Marina and the Brezio settlement of Castiglione di Paludi, near Rossano; places where millions of euros of public money have been spent over the years, without, however, being able to guarantee its conservation. The criminal gang's organization chart then used restorers, middle and high level intermediaries and, further climbing the pyramid, contacts with large traffickers, in a fruitful relationship with potential international customers. My intervention does not want and cannot, however, be just a praise to the judiciary and the Forces of the Order for having completed the operation Achei. If the traffic of archaeological finds and works of art in general lives a very prosperous season throughout the country and its employees have become more unscrupulous and are able to move with ever greater ease on the global market, this is mainly due to the abandonment of the Italian territory, especially to the South. I am talking about the depopulation of the internal areas; I am talking about the disappearance of farmers and crops; I am talking about the reduction in the number of environmental guards: all elements that contribute to creating the ideal conditions for predators of cultural heritage, which is not only culture in abstract, but also culture that has a great venal value, which is why the damage suffered is also an erarial damage; elements that, however, would not be sufficient on their own if, at the same time, we were not to witness a withdrawal of the State pursued with scientific determination. The country that does not have equals in the world for the capillarity of the material testimonies of its history is also the country that today abandons the field - literally - to take refuge in the comfortable and well-delimited spaces of the city's museums, glass bowls for red fish, where more and more often the sanctified private raises the State from having to bear, in addition to the expenses for excavations, restorations, maintenances and museums, also the burden of management and especially of profits, exponentially growing. The country where millions of people look forward to the free openings of the places of state culture every first Sunday of the month implicitly accepts that in the other twenty-nine days art does not belong to all and visiting the same institutions must cost too much for too many. I said museums, of course mega-museums, and within those mega-shows and monstrous exhibitions are almost the only goal of performance of a Ministry where the protection is dead, replaced by teaching, as shown - for example - the Service II (scavations and protection of the archaeological heritage) of the Directorate-General for Archaeology, Beautiful Arts and Landscape, and where the Service IV (circulation) is in fact paralyzed, as well as by the mania of the exhibitions, by the lack of will to continue the diplomatic commitment to the recovery of Italian cultural assets illegally stolen abroad; commitment that had very high moments a dozen years ago with Minister Rutelli and that again made well hope with the penultimate owner of the Dicastery. I therefore propose to present a bill for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to investigate the systematic hemorrhaging of our cultural heritage, which is also, as I said, the cause of a great deal of erorial damage and which has no responsibility for the omission of custody that has never been contested. I am referring in particular to the archaeological heritage, in which, paradoxically, tombbaroli seem to be the only ones to manifest genuine interest, even before it is able to generate profit. I hope that the Movimento 5 Stars will head this battle of civilization that is no longer postponed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u124	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, three things have left us with Paradise: stars, flowers and children. This sentence by Dante Alighieri is the most suitable for celebrating the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence, which on 20 November 1989 the UN General Assembly established and adopted the Convention on the Rights of Childhood. Today, as always, we must consider whether the fundamental rights written on the Charter have become a reality all over the world. So much progress has been made, so many still remain to be made. Unfortunately, many children and adolescents in our country are still victims of violence or abuse; they are often discriminated against, marginalized or living in conditions of grave neglect and discomfort. Some still suffer from hunger, the deprivation of parents' affections, and are not in possession of a basic education or school education. In Italy one in six children lives in poverty. Certainly policies such as the income of citizenship have helped many families to recover. Now we are preparing to take many measures to support the family, such as the baby bonus and the increase of resources for kindergartens who aim to encourage family welfare. We must never forget that children's well-being necessarily comes from the well-being of families and in this sense we are working, also to support school policies against school dispersal. We must never leave the weak parties behind, so that they are guided by two pillars on whose solidity and on whose mutual exchange of information rests the very future of each of our children: the family and the school. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Saponara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u127	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to bring to the attention of this House a phenomenon that is taking place in our sports world, particularly in football: the data place us only in ninth place for the percentage of stadium filling and, while in other European countries such as France and Spain the trend is positive, in our country it is negative. Even in Norway, Scotland, Belgium and the Netherlands, the stadiums are more involved than they are in Italy and even in second-class championships, as in Belgium and Scotland, the percentage of plants are filled more than by us. Tickets are a considerable part of the problem; just think that the cost of tickets grows at double rates compared to wages and the cost of living. And we don't fall into the trap of thinking that the drop is due to the mediaization of football, because pay-TVs have also had a fall in the last few years by 4%. By the way, according to the law, all those under the age of fourteen are entitled to enter the stadium free of charge. Unfortunately, however, this indication is not often followed by football clubs, proving that the intention to bring young people and families to the stadium is only a desired declared, but in fact never really pursued. And this phenomenon grabs the Serie A, which however, for obvious reasons, maintains a higher appeal than the other championships; but the same problem occurs in a stronger way even in the smaller championships. I do this not only because I am a sports councilman in the Municipality of Arezzo, where the first men's team is enrolled in the League Pro championship, but also because I am a mother of a small footballer, Edward. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Sport is passion, it's culture of respect, growth and training for our kids and it's sharing, it's rules. And all these values cannot be diminished by an entry ticket, because they are not marketable. Other nations, President, are going in the direction of containing the cost of tickets, and that is why I sent a letter this morning to the Minister of Youth Policy and Sport, to the President of the League Pro and to the President of the FIGC, so that the institutions responsible take effective responsibility for the resolution of this problem and that all this does not remain just words in the wind. I believe that the aim of all of us is to make us political decision-makers to safeguard at all costs the key principles of sport in general and in this case the identity of football intended as a popular sport for excellence, with a series of initiatives that go precisely in the direction of containing the cost of tickets, especially in the cadet series, and to bring families and young people back to the Italian stadiums. I would like to conclude with the following words: Eduardo Galeano, writer and journalist, asked the German theologian Dorothee Solle: How would you explain to a child what happiness "I wouldn't explain it to him," he replied, "I would give him a ball to play it." This phrase contains the true essence of football, which we must all protect, defend and preserve. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u130	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked to do this because on yesterday's evening, part of the television show Porta a Porta was devoted to a scandal, or considered to be such, concerning legal aid by law firms which, despite the fact that they have to assist their customers free of charge, and in particular immigrants, would instead take money from them too. I have taken this up again because for months I have been asking a question on this very issue and specifically on the quantification of the cases of immigrants who reach refugee status because they are homosexual and therefore persecuted in their countries of origin. I asked the data with reference to the number of applications accepted with this type of motivation; I asked for the data with reference to the numbers of legal aid; I asked - I must also say a certain advance regarding both the investigations of the judiciary and the consequent service of Porta di Porta - to the Minister of Clarification in this regard. I therefore ask the answer on this subject, bearing in mind that my question is Act 4-00202. I would also ask that it be turned into an oral written text. I would point out - as has already been said in previous speeches - that, if politics were to notice in time the distorted things, we could also act before the judiciary or a television service.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u133	FAITH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the House to an infrastructural emergency involving the South of the Marche and which, in fact, is nothing more than a recurring acute phase of a chronic evil that creates enormous inconveniences for thousands of citizens, especially in the southernmost part of the region, holding back the possibility of developing a territory in serious economic crisis, which is also affected by the serious consequences of the 2016 earthquake. It is urgent to place among the priorities of national investments a series of interventions both in the short and in the long term in order to resolve the infrastructural situation of the South of the Marche area, giving body to what is present also in the programmatic lines of the Government. It is a request that is based on objective data for a historically isolated territory, which has no public transport of any kind (neither airplanes, nor railway lines to the Tyrrhenian coast) and has available downgraded stations on the Adriatic line with very few stops of fast trains. Of course, the morphology of the territory is rather complex, but the main cause of this situation, faced and resolved in other parts of Italy, is above all the chronic shortage of investments in recent decades, for political reasons of various kinds that is not useful now to retrace. In recent months the situation has plummeted with regard to the only important artery that laps this territory, the motorway A14 (Bologna-Taranto), already a funnel for the failure to adapt the third lane that stops in Porto Sant'Elpidio; now affected by the consequences of the investigations of the prosecutor of the Republic of Avellino on safety and maintenance of the highway by Aspi, the company of the Benetton group involved also in the massacre of the Morandi bridge. The guardrails of some viaducts are not normal, so the viability of some viaducts is further reduced. The situation is critical in terms of journey times and accidents. Moreover, our Province of Ascoli Piceno had already statistically the largest number of deaths, accidents and consequent slowing downs on the whole section of the motorway to the South of Bologna, with further damage for the clogging of the internal roads that makes the situation even heavier. We would need immediate action, such as the revision of the toll system on the motorway, but at the moment - incredible to say - the contract with Autostrade for Italy does not seem to foresee this option. The best guarantees for motorists need to be adopted immediately and wider lanes and emergency lane protection provided, a reduced roadway with double lanes and the speed limitation controlled by the Tutor system. It is necessary to start concrete projects in order to structurally solve the logistic problems of that territory, from the third lane of the highway, to the valorization of the station of San Benedetto del Tronto, up to the railway of the two seas. And we must do so remembering that it is a territory that historically should be one of the hinges between North and South Italy, but that currently is not in the condition to carry out this function and makes complex not only the local and regional traffic, but also the whole connection on the Adriatic dorsal from North to South of the Country, thus limiting the development not only local, but also that of all the areas to the South of the Marches, that is, Abruzzo, Molise and Puglia. In this sense, I am asking questions to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport in order to draw further attention to this serious problem which we must finally resolve. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u136	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out the umpteenth scam perpetrated by the banks with the help of the controller to the detriment of tens of thousands of savers, already the subject of a complaint by the Adusbef in 2015 and an act of mine of inspection union signed by other colleagues, the question in written reply 4-00179, of 30 May 2018. Today Nicola Borsi, a good journalist on "The Newspaper Fact" writes an article with the following title: "Bankitalia knew since 2016 about the MPS scam on diamonds." The exposition of a bank employee tells how the customers took the bait, but it turned out only three years later. The scam was configured as follows: the saver pays 10,000 euros a diamond purchased at less than 2,000 euros and 80% is divided between banks, investment companies and sponsors; when he wants to sell it he will find another saver to pass the hot potato or - as is said in Rome - the only one, whose value is less than half of what paid. The Antitrust, in the sanction imposed to Intesa-San Paolo, Unicredit, MPS, Banco BPM to IDB brokers and DPI, that for fifteen years they have managed the business of beyond two billion euros, has spoken of behaviours omissive and gravely misleading for the customers, while the inspectors of Bankitalia did not see anything, perhaps because in the society IPR there was Massimo Santoro, a high official who has worked in Bank of Italy for thirty years. While in Milan the public prosecutor Colacicco, after having kidnapped 700 million, closed the investigation on September 28 for the crimes of fraud, money laundering, autocycling and corruption between private managers, bank employees and seven companies, the exposition transmitted by the magistrates of Siena on March 2 in Rome seems to have vanished in the port of the mists. I have presented to the draft budget bill Amendment 86.0.9 which imposes on the banks due and immediate compensation, with the hope that it can be approved by colleagues of majority and opposition, as a necessary act of justice in favour of savers cheated or cheated with the aid of the Bank of Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u139	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would simply like to say to the House that we have recently learned with great surprise yet another stop imposed by the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism on the construction of a strategic infrastructure for the province of Cuneo and beyond, because it connects with the passes of neighbouring France. We were a step away from the publication of the call for tenders, but the Demon variant, along state road No. 21, was blocked for an opinion not in accordance with what had been given by the regional superintendence. We are really concerned because, due to a negative opinion of the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and tourism, some municipalities, including Demonte, will have to continue to suffer the traffic of heavy goods vehicles. I would point out to this House that in Demonte, a small town with a single main road that crosses it, more than 800 heavy vehicles transit a day: an environmental disaster and absolutely dangerous livability. Do you know what is the result of the stop imposed by the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and tourism? To blow up a project of the estimated cost of 50 million euros for three kilometers of road, with a single lane per direction and a tunnel of 638 meters. In conclusion, the binding ministerial opinion, expressed through its three experts, blocks the Conference of Services, once again mocking this very important work and especially all the administrators who have been waiting for it for years. Think that ANAS had reiterated that it had spent more than 500,000 euros on design and that it had advanced five more solutions starting from 2002. The only one approved was this one. To Demonte, in all this, unfortunately still absent an alternative for the heavy traffic that crosses the concentric. Between opinions that bounce and documents in perennial itinerary and above all not respected deadlines, the territory of Cuneo with its enterprises, with 80,000 members of the Chamber of Commerce of Cuneo, risks to see to slow the train of the resumption in spite of this regards the logistics to locomotive. We in Cuneo are concrete people, more attentive to substance than to appearance; we ask for certain answers, short time and that the Minister of Cultural Heritage also engages with the Ministry of Transport on this front. The President-in-Office of the Council also has a duty to listen and help. It is strange to think that, as far as that reality is concerned, some stones are more important, probably ancient and belonging to a very old monastery that is no longer visible, than the health of those who unfortunately every day have to bear the discharges of over 700-800 heavy vehicles passing by. I ask the Government to pay the utmost attention to this matter and to take immediate action on the matter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u142	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all well know, on 4 October last, at the Trieste police station, the two police officers Matteo Demenego and Pierluigi Rotta were shot dead by an individual who was brought to the police station following a theft, who was able to take possession of one of the police officers' weapon inside the offices and opened fire against them. Following this tragic episode the City Council of Mirandola unanimously approved a motion of condolence for the two agents murdered in Trieste and also of solidarity with the State Police and the Forces of the Order. The motion was requested to be transmitted to the Mirandola police station, the Modena police station, the Trieste police station, the police chief Franco Gabrielli and the elected MPs on the regional territory. In this connection, Mr President, I would ask you to be able to put the motion to the record, which, in addition to containing condolences for the agents killed, clearly hopes that the person responsible for the two killings will be punished. The motion shall end with the following words: "Whoever criminals and especially those who commit violent crimes must pay to the full, must serve a sure, proportionate and adequate penalty to the evil and pain that he has caused to the victim and his family, without intervening in his favour concepts and feelings of social recovery and reintegration, re-education, goodness, which have led for decades to change the law always and only in favor of the executioner. The continuous reductions in edittal punishments, the constant decriminalization of crimes, the possibility of recourse to alternative rites, the ever easier and more frequent granting of premium permits have led to the subalternity of the right to legality, to justice and to the protection of victims. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u143	Senator Saponara, of course, your speech is on record. At the time, this House rightly expressed its solidarity and sympathy with the families involved and the citizens of that reality for the victims. In addition, I would say that in this case too they are victims at work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u146	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to say that I do not hide any concern about how Alitalia's dispute is developing. Today the extension for the final offer for the purchase of the former company expires, and we are talking about a further extension - by the Government - because the buyers have not identified a resolution with the Government; a government that is using - in my opinion - Taliban ways, as a people's court, without finding a point of contact with who should buy and take over to relaunch what is our airline. In my opinion, to convince Lufthansa, Delta, Atlantia, there is no industrial plan to relaunch the company: we are talking not about long-haul flights, but about a rescue plan and that frightens investors. Well, I believe that this cannot be accepted. I would like to remind the Government that, on the quadrant of Fiumicino, of the X Town Hall (Ostia, Acilia and all that area), we risk an economic, social and also cultural collapse, in addition to the loss of 10,000 jobs, which add to those of Ilva, Whirlpool and other companies, with the risk of a total of 80,000 layoffs in the coming months, with a social implosion not indifferent. I say: either you find solutions or at Fiumicino we will do the barricades. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u147	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-168.ana.u148	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 December, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.24 p.m.
