ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 21 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u3	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 22 March 2019 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that with decrees of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegations of functions conferred by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery on. Dr. Mr Garavaglia and Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr Garavaglia, Mr With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte. We wish them good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u4	I communicate that on 25 March 2019 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finances (Conversion to Law Decree-Law No 22 of 25 March 2019 on urgent measures to ensure security, financial stability and integrity of markets, as well as the protection of the health and freedom of residence of Italian citizens and those of the United Kingdom, in the event of the withdrawal of the latter from the European Union (1165).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders established changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 3 May. At today's sitting, the proposals for a preliminary ruling on the decree-law on citizenship income and pensions will be discussed. The debate on the measure will begin tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. The calendar of the week also provides for discussion of the bill on self-defense. Tomorrow afternoon there will be a two-hour suspension at the request of a parliamentary group. In the week from 2 to 4 April will be discussed the draft law on abbreviated judgment, class action and motions on autism and gold reserves of the Bank of Italy. In the afternoon of Wednesday 3 there will be, by calling senators, the vote for the election of four actual members and four alternates of the Commission for the supervision of the Deposit and Loan Fund. Each senator will receive a card indicating the names of three senators as actual members and three alternates, using the appropriate cabins. The week from 8 to 13 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In the week from April 16 to 19 will be discussed, where concluded by the Commissions, the draft laws on video surveillance and on the minimum hourly wage, the European law 2018, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies, and the decree-law financial stability. The week from 23 to 27 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In the week from 29 April to 3 May the topics not concluded in previous weeks will be discussed. On Thursday 4 April and 18 April, at 3 p.m., the question time is expected. Finally, the calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the 2019 Economy and Finance Document. The Conference of Leaders took note of the requests for examination of draft laws, motions and founding documents of the Commission of Inquiry made by the Leaders, which are listed below: Movimento 5 Stars: bill no. 510-B (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies), in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange; Forza Italia: draft law n. 1144 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies), in the matter of detachment of Municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region; motions in the matter of infrastructure as primary objective in the programmes of the European Commission; recruitment of teaching staff from the peer schools; school graduation and safety buildings; plans public investments according to a new environmental model. Democratic Party: Motions on the Forum of the families of Verona; in the matter of anti-corruption and associations, as well as mafia infiltrations in Veneto. Mixed Group: Monocameral Committee of Inquiry into xylella; motion for a resolution on cesium.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of March and April 2019: - Drawing of law n. 925 - Inapplicability of the judgment abbreviated to the crimes punished with the sentence of life imprisonment (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 844 and connected - Provisions in the matter of class action (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Measures to prevent and combat conduct of ill-treatment or abuse, even of psychological nature, to the detriment of minors in the educational services for children and in children's schools and of persons hosted in the socio-health and social assistance structures for the elderly and persons with disabilities and delegation to the Government in the matter of training of staff (where concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 822-B - Provisions for the fulfilment of obligations deriving from the membership of the Italian Act concluded by the European (adopted by the Council)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u7	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 3 May under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday 26 March h. 12 - Preliminary questions on draft law n. 1018-B - Decree-Law n. 4, Income of citizenship and pensions - Drawing of law n. 1018-B - Decree-Law n. 4, Income of citizenship and pensions (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 29 March 2019) - Drawing of law n. 5-199-234-253-392-412-563-652-B - Legal defence (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 27 " h. 9.30 Thursday 28 " h. 9.30]] [[Tuesday, April 2, h. 16 - Drawing of law n. 925 - Abbreviated judgment (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 844 and connected - Class action (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Vote for the election of 4 actual members and 4 alternates of the Commission for the supervision of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (*) - Motions on: - autism - gold reserves of the Bank of Italy - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules (Thursday 4, at 15) Wednesday 3 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 4 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 925 (Abbreviated Judgment) and No 844 (Class Action) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 28 March. (*) The call of the Senators will take place on the afternoon of Wednesday, April 3. Each Senator will receive a card indicating the names of three Senators as actual members and three alternates. The week from 8 to 13 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 16 April h. 16-20 - Following unfinished arguments - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Video surveillance (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law n. 310 and 658 - Minimum hourly salary (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 822-B - European law 2018 (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1165 - Decree-Law n. 22, Financial stability (final vote by 25 April) (expires on 24 May) - Inspection union - Immediate response questions, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 18, 15) Wednesday 17 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30 Friday 19 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Decree-Law No 897 and related (Videosurveillance), No 822-B (European Law 2018) and No 1165 (Decree-Law No 22, Financial Stability) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The week from 23 to 27 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Monday 29 April h. 16 - Eventually followed unfinished topics Tuesday 30 " h. 9.30 Thursday 2 May h. 16 (if necessary) Friday 3 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The timetable can be supplemented with the Doc. LVII, No 2 (Economic and Financial Document 2019). Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1018-B (Decree-Law No. 4, Citizenship income and pensions) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 822-B (European Law 2018) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1165 (Decree-Law No 22, Financial Stability) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of Doc. LVII, No 2 (Economic and Financial Document 2019) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 50' FI-BP 35' L-SP-PSd'Az 34' PD 32' FdI 21' Mixed 20' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1018-B. I call Senator Carbone to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u9	Mr President, colleagues and fellow senators, representatives of the Government, we are unfortunately once again faced with a question of reference. The measure contains numerous problems due to the lack of the requirements of the so-called exceptionality clause imposed by the Constitutional Charter. The measure under consideration provides for 24 implementing rules, 15 of which without a time limit, and refers to successive and multiple acts, such as decrees of the President of the Republic, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministerial decrees, agreements with the Unified Conference, administrative acts of the Municipalities, measures of the INPS, the Inail and the ANPAL. I'm just quoting a couple of these delays for time issues, just to get into it. Article 3, paragraph 7, requires the way in which the income of citizenship is paid to a decree of the Minister of Labour and Social Policies, to be adopted by 29 July 2019. But how can the payment of income be reconciled from 1 April, if the methods of payment can be defined up to two months later? In paragraph 2 of Article 5 a decree by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is still required to indicate the modalities for the presentation of the single replacement declaration for the purpose of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation, without indication of the timing. But how is it possible not to provide information on the timing of the presentations of these models? Explain. Even here, how do you see urgency without a concomitant time limit? It's unbelievable. The only urgency you see is to buy consensus with the increase in public expenditure before the European elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a very serious act, which is used by the idlers to state subsidies, mortifying meritocracy, commitment and sacrifice: a real shame. From January 2018 to January this year public debt increased by 71 billion, at a rate of 6 billion per month, with an increase of 3.1 percent. In the previous twelve months it had grown by half, or 35 billion a year, about 3 billion a month, with an increase of 1.5%. This is the government of the record of public debt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The decree-law will trigger an explosive mechanism on public spending, generate opportunistic behaviors, make passive welfare permanent, clientele and welfare and will produce at least three devastating effects on our labour market. The first, frighteningly expensive and incremental: a drug that will produce chronically assisted patients. The second effect is that the employment rate will decrease. Tell me: who will ever accept a term contract, part time or occasional, to 800 or to 1,000 euros per month, when, thanks to the income of citizenship, can have an equivalent amount without doing anything, perhaps integrating it even with a black job? Thirdly, the minimum wage at which a normal workforce is willing to take up employment will increase. Moral: Citizenship income is an insult to those who work forty hours a week for just over that amount. I'm thinking of the military, the police, the prison police. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] to the many workers and employees, who earn 1,200 hard work, and part-time workers who earn just 500 or 700 euros a month. To get out of this situation you need all the opposite of what the government is doing at the moment. Only in the last twelve months have you made to fly away from our country 118 billion euros: it was the money of Italian and foreign investors, put on companies and Treasury bonds. In 2018 foreign investors removed 36 billion euros from the Italian public debt and 26 billion from Italian companies to put them elsewhere; to this must be added the 56 billion Italian capitals that, again in 2018, were invested across borders, for a total of 118 billion. But wasn't it supposed to be a beautiful year, the year of the economic boom? This is becoming - forgive me - a joke that ridicules you before the whole world. I wonder what Italy would be if those 118 billion were going in instead of running away and how much investment we would have managed to make without increasing the public debt. Mr President, members of the government, it would be wonderful if we could attract those capitals rather than let them escape, to create real jobs. The failure of the political ravings of the Movimento 5 Stars is palpable and the halving of the votes in Abruzzo, Sardinia and Basilicata are nothing compared to the defeat that it will receive in the European elections. Zero absolute on the school; zero absolute on the research; zero on the innovation; zero for the development of the Mezzogiorno, forgotten and totally absent in the famous contract. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Zero on the birth rate; zero on the employment of women; zero for women with children; zero for the tax redistribution for young people and so much more kindly public debt offered to generations to come, to our young people, because they will always have to pay. The data released by ISTAT confirm the worst forecast: -7.3 percent in industrial production, -5.3 percent in orders in December 2018 compared to December 2017. These contractions have not been seen since 2009, when Italian GDP had fallen by 5%. In this crazy scenario, dear friends of the government, I can only dwell on the narration of the electoral campaign that you incessantly spread abroad and throughout the country. Telling Italy as a country divided between a South that doesn't want to work and a North that works, but doesn't want to pay taxes is a crazy, toxic boiata that risks feeding a very dangerous social frustration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is much to be paid attention to the new welfare godfathership that the Movimento 5 Stars is configuring today in the Mezzogiorno. It is necessary to create growth in order to overcome the unemployment that afflicts southern Italy and not to continue to push the foot on the accelerator of assistantism, because in this way the country ends up in the ravine. I would ask you whether it would not have made more sense to use the resources allocated to put them in favour of businesses and to hire them. This data supports the thesis that Forza Italia has been strongly supporting for months: the Movimento 5 Stars is imposing on the Government its original pillars, typical of the pauperist ideologies of the last century: an asset, a strong increase in taxes on the house and the introduction of the inheritance tax. The mere idea of such measures, together with those already adopted by the decree-law dignity, has been enough to generate in investors, consumers, businesses and families a distrust so strong that it triggers a new and devastating recession. Our pact, ladies and gentlemen of the League, signed by the CentroRextra before the general elections, did not include any of this; it provided for zero state parasitism, less taxes on families, less taxes on businesses and work. The green one, however, signed in a company consulting firm, is a deadly trap for public finance, for the labour market and for our welfare. This government has reduced Italy to Europe's taillight. Once again we appeal to the League to respect the pact signed before the Italians before the general elections. But not necessarily: our appeal is not eternal, it will not be forever. It is time to take responsibility. You are making yourselves an accomplice to this disaster; stop while you are in time, for the good of the country. Forza Italia has been and will always be attentive to the weakest sections of the population. The Berlusconi governments have always demonstrated this, first with the raising of pensions to one million of the old lire, and then creating well over 1,600,000 jobs. We cannot continue to abuse the decree-law as a means of law-making; it has become an ordinary instrument that dangerously compresses parliamentary activity and debate. For these reasons, I would ask the House not to consider this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u10	I call Senator Laus to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the income of citizenship is a hybrid and confused measure that superimposes the aims of combating poverty and social inclusion with the aim of job reintegration, in the failed attempt to create a measure of support for income and work which, in fact, will consist exclusively of the provision of an economic benefit. This is a measure that will not promote employment growth, because it is based on welfare policies, and it will not help people in poverty, because it is based on the belief that the only need for these is work, while the fight against poverty requires complex responses and a multi-dimensional assessment of the person, as provided for in the legislation on income inclusion. Forget or, better, pretend to forget the non-working dimensions of poverty, such as disability, uncomfortable conditions, age or level of education, means forgetting most of the poor. In this regard, the changes introduced by the House of Deputies on the equivalence scale parameter in the event that members in the household are present in conditions of serious disability or non-self-sufficiency, represent a very modest - not to say ridiculous - response for people with disabilities and their families, since the increase is only 0.1%. In contrast to what was provided for in the legislation on income for inclusion, the decree-law in question penalises families, especially if they are large and with children, instead by unreasonably rewarding single-component households: with the equivalence scale envisaged, in fact, families with children represent only 27% of households benefiting from citizenship income, compared with 53% of households benefiting from the income for inclusion. With an incomprehensible choice, the unemployed NASPI recipients are penalized, whose unemployment duration exceeds four months, which is suspended, until 31 December 2021, the payment of the relocation allowance to reserve it to citizens only. This narrows the scope of an important active labour policy measure, which is taken away from its natural recipients. With regard to the identification of the beneficiaries' audience, the decree-law, with a rule of dubious constitutionality - I want to point out - penalizes foreigners, bringing up to ten years the requirement of residence in Italy necessary for the recognition of citizenship income. The Constitutional Court has pointed out on several occasions that social policies may require continuous and further territorial roots with respect to residence alone, provided that such a stronger territorial roots, which are required of third-country nationals for the purposes of access to the benefits in question, are contained within non-arbitrary and not unreasonable limits. There are therefore several judgments of the Court in this matter: I do not read them on time issues, but I would like to refer to Judgment No 4 of 2013 in order to remain in the proceedings. The changes introduced to the path that the applicant must undertake in order to obtain citizenship income make it even more crooked, disorderly and complicated than the one provided for in the original text, in particular as regards the distinction between the tasks of employment centres and those of municipalities, which lose their centrality in the governance of the measure, once again to the detriment of large families and disabled people. The local authorities and the third sector are deprived in fact of the fundamental role played so far, since the system of governance designed by the decree-law under consideration greatly reduces their role as actors who have always worked on the territory to combat poverty, giving rise to a confused design, made up of precarious navigators (of which, however, to date, the profile and the contractual model are not known), and overlapping functions and tools between national and regional authorities, with a view to a partial and merely "work" vision of poverty. The decree-law under consideration provides, outside of any logic, the imprisonment from two to six years for anyone, in order to obtain the income of citizenship, makes false statements or omits information due; it is therefore a higher penalty than those provided for in the criminal cases of false committed by an official. The measure known as the 100 quota is not a structural reform of the social security system, but it is only a one-off measure lasting three years, which does not foresee any overrun of the Fornero reform: you are therefore approving the Fornero reform. This measure is an advantage only for certain categories of persons, i.e. workers who will be sixty-two years of age by December 2021 and who have long and continuous contributory stories. As pointed out by many of the auditors, most of them are male workers, with pensions calculated largely using the remuneration method and, among them, civil servants, with all the consequences that their unplanned early retirement will represent for the functioning of the public administration in crucial areas such as that of the school, where there is the very serious risk - given the blocking of competitions provided for by the last budget law - of not having sufficient teachers to meet the needs that may be found for the next school year. The very high cost of this measure will be paid by pensioners with cheques exceeding 1,500 euro gross, with the blocking of indexings, by young people, for whose future pensions the decree-law provides nothing, but on which, on the contrary, download the onerous price of 100, by women, who have usually more discontinuous and irregular careers (only one out of three of those that will be paid by 2019 will go to a worker) and by all the weaker categories of workers, who will be forced to continue to work because, due to sudden and short-sighted choices, they cannot reach the thirty-eight years of contributions. Mr President, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, we therefore ask that we do not proceed with the examination of draft law No 1018-B. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u12	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u15	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, as we did at first reading, we will not vote in favour of the prejudices because we believe that a measure on poverty is necessary, indeed fundamental, but that does not mean that we do not see the limits of the measure that we have stressed in the debate and that even the amendments adopted at second reading in the House resolve. Perhaps the problem of the relationship between the regions and the government has been solved, but there are some fundamental issues that I want to underline very briefly. Meanwhile, we are not convinced - it is a strategic mistake - the overlap between poverty and work; it is a contradiction that will create problems and difficulties. Similarly, some issues have not been resolved such as, for example, the recruitment of homeless persons, the recruitment of precarious persons at ARPAL, or the recruitment of immigrants for whom ten years are incomprehensible if not for an ideological reason. We think, however, that at this point it is right to verify the promises in the field and there we will see the serious and real problems. Colleagues, the fact remains that, in the face of economic developments, there is a Government that is unable to respond with any structural policy and our country, unfortunately, will pay it at a high price.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u18	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it is a question of a preliminary ruling because it puts a kind of judgment before and Mr Errani, with his usual calm style, said that his Group cannot vote in favour of the prejudices because a measure that places poverty at the centre must be supported in some way. We, however, also in the choice of the preliminary ruling, did not place ourselves with a harmful attitude and we worked, first in the Senate and then in the Chamber, and then again in the Senate, with the constructive spirit of those who know that there could be important measures within the measure, but who saw and found a deaf Government in the response to these measures on an absolutely unacceptable plant. It is such because it is only and exclusively a decree that forms the commercial; it is a decree advertising. According to the words of the two Vice Premier, it is a commercial decree that should have solved the problem of poverty and the Fornero law. I regret to have to say in this House that neither poverty has been abolished, nor the Fornero law, which remains where it was, because the measure that has been put in place at 100, in fact, is not even structural and lasts only three years. What worries us seriously is that at the end of these three years there will be no structural measure that will allow, for example, early retirement for those who carry out heavy or weary jobs; there will be no structural measure for those who in life could not have a contributory continuity, such as women and people who, for example due to long illness, could not work continuously; there will be no structural measure to secure young people, who will be burdened with an electoral debt, because that is the content of the measure in our examination. We believe that with much less money you could have done much more, really taking care of people really in difficulty. The work we have tried to do with our amendments has all gone in this direction, for example, to try to help Gino, a construction worker who is sixty-two years old and still has to get on a scaffolding. [[Applause from the PD Group]] because it does not have thirty-eight years of contributions, which are almost impossible to reach in the building sector. We also wanted to give an answer to Martina, who is sixty-two years old and takes night shifts as a nurse for thirty-two years, or to a self-employed woman who has been driving a van for thirty-two years, but at sixty-two years she can't take it anymore, or to an unemployed woman of sixty-two years who has finished the unemployment benefit, has no 38 years of contributions, and is unable to find a job. All these people - and also many others - with 100 will have absolutely nothing. As if that were not enough, continue to tell us the story that thanks to 100 you will multiply the jobs, such as the multiplication of loaves and fishes. This is grotesque because if it is true that you free up jobs - and then I will focus on how many you release - then actually block the turnover in the public administration, creating a few small windows here and there. President, for now the only ones who have the guarantee to be hired and to find a job are the navigators, but to the detriment - as a matter of fact - of the precarious of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), who already have that training and could do that job. But you decided to leave them at home. This isn't over. Alberto Brambilla - who cannot be accused for sure of collaborationism with the enemy, that is to say with us, being a very close advisor to Salvini - clearly said yesterday that with a quota 100, as it is structured, only 10 percent of those who leave the job can be replaced. Then there is another element which, perhaps, Mr President, you can help us understand: what does the Government have against women? It was not enough the shameful bill of Senator Pillon; it was not enough the other shameful bill that wants to break the law n. 194 of 1978 and the patronage of Minister Fontana at the Congress of the families of Verona to go against the female figure, it also put the whole Government with the decree-law to our examination. Women in the measure are basically the most disadvantaged, those who will eventually pay pensions for others. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] That's what the data says, the Democratic Party doesn't say. The same is true of citizenship income, on which, however, I would like to clear the field immediately from a misunderstanding: none of us is opposed to a measure to combat poverty. None of us is opposed to action to promote social inclusion. You are telling us that we would be against such a measure. We start from a semantic assumption that we feel wrong: you say that you want to abolish poverty and we remind you that poverty is different and that you cannot create a unique measure to give answers to all types of poverty present within our country, that we with the income of inclusion had tried somehow to support, to get people out of social exclusion. It would have sufficed to realize this measure through listening to the Alliance against Poverty, which also came to the Senate to tell you how things were, explaining to you how poverty is a famine of effective freedom, which translates into the impossibility of developing one's own potential and of realizing one's own life plan. This lack of freedom therefore requires an overall and also multidimensional take-up that touches all aspects of the issue, and cannot be linked simply to the relocation to a job that, albeit sacrosanct, is only one aspect of this issue. By doing so marginalize all those who do not seek work because they cannot work, because they have other difficulties, because they must be followed. These are those that the social services of the various local authorities are following closely today. What have you done within this provision? You have also eradicated this possibility: the contact with social services that can follow people, helping them build their life plan. Again, as is the case at 100, you have done nothing but penalise women, because it is not mothers with children who are helped by the income of citizenship, but it is mainly singles or small families. Besides, how many lies have you told those who have disabilities? You have put in place shameful coefficients and the Democratic Party has fought for you to intervene in a better way. Today, in fact, if a family has a disabled person at home, on equal income with another family, it receives less; as if that situation was not in need of further help. Not to mention the big lie you told everyone that you would bring all disability pensions to EUR 780. You know what you did? Not only did you not bring them to that amount, but you made sure that the pension was calculated within the overall assets of a family so that those with a disability are penalised further. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's nothing but anti-poverty interventions! You have forgotten all the educational poverty; you have cut all those interventions, well present within the income of inclusion that were going to help just the children, the children who had certain needs. Educational poverty is a disease for our society. What are you doing? Tell the boys to go to the work center with their fathers and don't worry about the rest: enough training, it's not important. This is because you are not really interested in defeating evils within our society. As has been pointed out earlier by my colleague from Forza Italia, I would add that, in the face of the applications for retirement - which, apparently, are very numerous - you did not foresee for health and school those necessary and sacred competitions to make sure that our system does not fall apart. We will not know how the school year will start next September; we only know that the questions that have arrived, legitimate, on the part of the teachers alarm us because if you do not start the competition season - and you are late - we will not have math teachers, we will not have English teachers, our classes will be discovered and our children will risk further educational poverty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, this is the government of haste: it needs to intervene with measures at a supersonic speed, without giving time for their elaboration. You had also done so when it came to the budget law and continued, repeating this way of cutting the time of discussion and analysis without arriving on time in the delivery of the texts and reports that are needed to carry out the measures and to be able to reason in what should be a normal democratic dialectic. You are in a hurry that is not given by the need to solve the problem but by the only need you have in mind, because the goal for you is not to retire people first or defeat poverty; for you the goal is to win the next election. Everything else and its consequences don't interest you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u19	Greeting on behalf of the Assembly students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Gregorio Ugdulena" of Termini Imerese, in the province of Palermo, who are witnessing many of our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u22	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, the reference to the question referred by the Forza Italia Group seems to me to be necessary, especially when we consider that we are converting a decree-law whose application will probably take place at a later date, ranging from two to five months to a few years, while some of the decrees provided for in this measure will probably never be enacted. This means that we are entrusting to the Government the use of a law whose applicability is not certain, they are not sure even the people who will receive the income of citizenship, they are not certain the people who will be able to enjoy the pensions of citizenship, as well as, on the other hand, in the second part of the law, also quota 100 will imply some considerations and will require other decrees to be applied. Basically, Mr President, what I am obliged to say is that we are approving something that we do not know what the future is going to be. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We know for sure that this decree-law will have no effect, in the near future, on the number of jobs that will be produced in our country, because we are now repeating a Leitmotiv in politics, in this branch of Parliament, exclusively by the majority, for which jobs can be created by decree. Today - we have heard it in the Commission - we reiterate that the real jobs are created by activating the enterprise, enabling the enterprise to overcome certain moments of difficulty, favouring the world of enterprise, which creates stable and safe jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This creates in the mind of those who receive the job an awareness of the need to contribute to the improvement of their own enterprise precisely through work. On the other hand, what you are inculcating in our young people - and that is what we are most concerned about, President - is that we are promoting in our young people the search for the chair on which to sit at home and wait on the 27th of the month, not to go to collect a salary, but to withdraw their citizenship income. This, if it is absolutely reprehensible for the elderly and those who have lost a job and seek reintegration, is absolutely condemnable for young people. You are promoting the assistantism of the chair and this worries us not a little, because changing the mindset, once the young person gets used to the assistantism, will not be easy. I am saying this because I am basing a large part of your legislative initiative on employment centres. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. What worries us most is that the logistical situation of employment centres is not at all adequate. Not only that, but if we then go on to examine the other conditions, only 20 percent of the staff working in the employment centres, which has a mainly administrative calibration, is endowed with a higher degree, a degree: the remaining 80 percent do not have it until they reach people who almost do not even have a degree. I would like to understand how it is done in these conditions, relying on employment centres that many times do not have offices, do not have adequate staff and that - I add - they do not even have a connection with the computer platforms that should allow them to make a matching between supply and demand of work, to ensure that this law, as quickly as you expect, can really produce the result you want. The result you want, or declared, is to produce new jobs, but the reality will be that you will not produce jobs. However, you will achieve a different result, as some Members have already said, even in the Commission and during the examination of the measure in the House: this is not a measure that aims to create jobs, but to create consensus. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is what concerns us: the search for consensus. It is not the first law we have examined in this House that goes in this direction. I must say that, fortunately, the Italians, those who care about our country and not the income of citizenship that can come, have shown that they do not have the ring to the nose with the last elections, a period in which we have already talked abundantly about income of citizenship, welfare, the resolution of the problems of poverty in Italy (but this is not the time to address this issue and I will do so during the intervention in general discussion). People are getting used to staying at home. And you bring them home care: 780 euros to a young person applying for citizenship income membership. 780 euros, which are a slap in the face. I am a slap, where many people who work, sometimes even far from home, sometimes full time and sometimes with a short time, do not reach this figure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And you are telling our young people: you are at home that we assure you of 780 euros. So are those fools going to work for 500 euros? What kind of morale do you want to give our people with their citizenship income? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] Be careful: we are not opposed to solving the problems of poverty. We have demonstrated this through acts of the Berlusconi Government; we have demonstrated, not in one but in more legislation, this strong interest and today we support it. We are not against the fight against poverty: we are against this kind of solution to the problems of poverty, which we would like to combat by giving everyone the opportunity for a job, the opportunity to contribute to the well-being of their families and, collectively, to the well-being of our nation. Instead, you do the exact opposite. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is where, unfortunately, we differ, friends of the majority (or a part of the majority; now the confusion is not small, because we are accustomed to always having you of the M5S as opposition, continuous and constant, in every elective level, while sometimes we have difficulties with the friends of the League, because we always do the electoral battle against you in the regionals we cannot do a battle against the League). We invite, however, the friends of the League who care about the fate of the State, the fate of our nation, to be attentive to the measures that lead to the examination. Especially when these measures are - not in my opinion, because it would be very little - judged negatively. We held 65 hearings during the examination of this decree-law in the Commission. We have audited the entire economic and social arc of the representatives of our nation; well, out of 65 interventions made, very few - they can count on the fingers of one hand - have proved in favour of this measure: the other 60 have partially judged this measure negative or rejected. This is not the idea of this bill being made by Senator Emilio Floris, who speaks to you: it is a widespread idea that this measure will not combat poverty and will not create employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u23	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1), and Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP2), referring to bill 1018-B. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u26	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I asked for the floor today because it is the 40th anniversary of the death of Ugo La Malfa. Remembering it today means not only talking about one of the most important personalities of the Italian politics of the twentieth century, but also bringing back to memory those decades of our republican history that have seen it as the protagonist of the construction of our democracy, the renewal of the structure of the State and the defence of our economic and social system. If we are what we are, if despite our political and economic weaknesses, if in spite of all this Italy still retains a position of prestige in the world, this is due to the extraordinary work of those, like Ugo La Malfa, who contributed in the post-war period, with foresight, culture and democratic spirit, to transform a country destroyed by twenty years of fascist dictatorship and an atrocious defeat, in the seventh industrial power, champion in those years in physics, electronics, transport networks, telephony, steel production, the car industry, the quality of social legislation, cinematography, literature and the arts. Ugo La Malfa was one of the creators of that miracle. In fact, in the narrow circle of how many in those years led the country, La Malfa has occupied a special place. A refined intellectual, anti-fascist and charismatic political leader, he has always been able to keep together the attention to public finances and a development policy, the enhancement of national industry and the liberalisation of trade, the Atlantic loyalty and the interests of Italy, the sense of the State and support for the process of integration of Europe. The years of Ugo La Malfa have been difficult years: they have seen emerge in our country, alongside powerful economic and industrial forces, strong mass parties and large labor unions. With them La Malfa interloquiva, at the head of a small, minority party, but of great authority and prestige. Cold in political and economic analysis, he saw farther away than many of his contemporaries and, when he was not heard, he knew how to hold on and often prevailed not because of the weight of the numbers of his small party, but because of the strength of the arguments and the rigour with which he could express them. There are rare political leaders who have enjoyed that prestige and respect that during his life have been recognized in Ugo La Malfa as much to the right as to the left. His legacy was collected by his son Giorgio, but the changed conditions of the political custom and the lack of culture in Italy today do not allow us to re-propose that republican spirit with which Ugo La Malfa supported and guided the events of our democracy. A year before he died, to Alberto Ronchey who interviewed him, Ugo La Malfa observed that Italy was not what we had in mind. He used the plural: he didn't say "Italy that I had in mind" but "Italy that we had in mind"; attention to the whole national community was one side of its modernity. He supported the primacy of politics, he knew that it was necessary to bring together different skills and to combine different activities, to integrate culture and the economy, the efficiency of industrial realities and the need for social reforms. He knew the battles were lost on their own. That's how he used the plural. He felt that the bitterness for the condition of Italy was not only his, but also of those who had worked with him, fought and also fought for a more just and stronger country and not to see her struggling with the selfishness and small interests of the shop. We, like Ugo La Malfa, should be able to see with his intellectual honesty, responsibility and lucidity the difficult conditions of Italy today, not to turn on others the responsibility for our difficulties, how much, always remembering La Malfa, to ask ourselves and our party what we can and must do, not for our political interest, but to help Italy to recover. From the political life of Ugo La Malfa we can learn many lessons. I was particularly impressed by the strength with which he always supported his thinking and ideas, which he carried on without caring about the small size of his party. Paraphrasing his friend Enrico Cuccia, we can say that with Ugo La Malfa the votes of the MPs of the Republican Party did not count but weighed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u29	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Zanda for the memory of Ugo La Malfa and I am starting from a concept that Mr Zanda expressed: if we are who we are and because someone before us has made a number of important steps in our Republic. I would also like to mention Ugo La Malfa, of which I shared the path from the age of sixteen. He was anti-fascist and founder of the Action Party, one of the parties that perhaps had the shortest life in temporal terms in our Republic, but an important role. Ugo La Malfa was founder in 1943, with great courage, of the newspaper "Italia Libera" and of course member of the CCLN. He was one of the Fathers of the Republic. He was vice president of the International Monetary Fund and in this role he poured in Italy the knowledge, innovations and the fact that in the fifties they led him to be the advocate of those liberalizations and norms that allowed us to ride growth and reach the epoch of the economic boom of our country. Ugo La Malfa was therefore a great defender of freedom, a man who really put the interest of the Nation first of all and of course this manifested himself above all with the Additional Note and the White Paper that earned him the denomination of "Cassandra" of the Republic: it was Cassandra to the point that he was one of the few to refuse the appointment as Minister of the Treasury with the Government Columbus. In the seventies Ugo La Malfa began a path on the way - let me be reminded - of the one who was at his side in the first post-war period and also in part in the Resistance period, Ferruccio Parri, with whom he founded the Movement of Republican Democracy. In the 1970s, he also firmly married the toughest line against the Red Brigades. On the economic front - I close with a personal digression - came to say to us young people engaged - a consideration that still applies today - that in Italy, at that time, there was the free fluctuation of the currency. With the free fluctuation of the currency we had half Parliament that wanted to have a free hand and therefore supported the free quotation of the currency in order to be able to print freely, and half Parliament that did not want to hook up with the other European countries because it had a vision still beyond the curtain. His group had four senators and six deputies. He believed he could convince others and indeed convinced them with the International Monetary System approved in 1978, a year before Ugo La Malfa died. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u32	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to remind the House of the tragic 24 March 1944, when Nazi madness hurled itself against the lives of 335 innocent people, the sacrificial victims of the most heinous violence. The city of Rome was the scene of one of the most brutal episodes of modern history that still leaves behind unbelief and dismay. Thus, the bloodiest Nazi massacre was consumed in a European capital and the presence among the victims of even nineteen Apulians gathered a tragic page of the common history of our land; nineteen stories, protagonists of heroic deeds lived by free men: Don Pietro Pappagallo of Terlizzi, Gioacchino Gesmundo of Terlizzi, Gaetano La Vecchia of Barletta, the foggiano Nicola Ugo Stame, Giuseppe Lotti and Vincenzo Saccotelli of Andria, Teodato Albanese of Cerignola, Ugo Baglivo of Alessano, Umberto and Bruno Bucci of Lucera, Antonio Pazin Di Maglie, Antonio Ayroldi of Ostuni, Ferruccio Caputo of Melissano, the brothers Federico and Mario Càrola of Lecce, Manfredi Azzarita, son of Molfettesi, the major of the carabiniers Ugo De Carolis, the soldier Cosimo Diccio and Emanuele. Of that dramatic day, of that vile and horrible act, remains the wound of so many blameless deaths, the consciousness of a past to remember not to repeat it and the echo of a twist of history that must be known in its deep origin and its deviances. The Fosse Ardeatine were yet another obscene representation of a mad and absurd hatred, of a toxic faith that found in the denial of neighbour and discrimination of race the objective of its beastly impetus. The worst past awakens our consciences today and leaves us a severe warning for the future: never give in to the banality of evil. Italy, Puglia, and also the city of Barletta - awarded two gold medals for the Resistance and present yesterday at the celebration of the anniversary of the massacre of the Fosse Ardeatine with its gonfalone and representatives of the ANPI - bear witness to the historical and symbolic significance of the contribution that our community, with the sacrifice of its men, has brought to the history of anti-fascistism. Thank you again for giving me the floor, President. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u35	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the horror surrounding the waste world knows no bounds. Once again we are witnessing how unworthy of dangerous practices in waste management that restore the degradation and criminal pursuit of unscrupulous pseudo-entrepreneurs who work in the name of dominant profits even at the expense of the food we eat, the air we breathe and the water we drink. As now known to the national chronicles, following a deserving service of a popular television program of 18 March and other in-depth studies of 21 March, in Deliceto (the locality of Foggiano) we learn, through the testimony of a former worker and some videos, that nighttime from the landfill now exhausted with a pump was picked up the percolate and then dumped in an adjacent channel that flows into the river Cervaro, which crosses the Regional Park of the Incoronata. The water from this channel is used by unsuspecting farmers to irrigate their fields, mainly cultivated with cereals and vegetables. Subsequently the television broadcast also showed the continuous absence of controls in the wells obtained near the landfill where the leachate flows, because declared without liquids, despite the rains at different times of the year. The landfill in question is managed by Agecos SpA, which refers to the Bonassisa family, the protagonist already in the past of various judicial events and practically in every business concerning waste. The leachate in landfills is a highly polluting liquid, which is produced by the process of degradation of the organic part of the waste, in addition to rainwater, which enters the landfill by collecting the polluting waste. This liquid needs to be removed from the landfill and treated in a specific way, either through purification in on-site plants or, transported by specific means, in external installations for appropriate treatment. The operator of this landfill has therefore requested an extension to the Puglia Region, but the authorization is still being validated. This is a very serious situation, which affects both the health of the consumers of the products grown there and the image of our province. The effort we are making to re-launch the many beauties and values of our land is frustrated by gestures like these, which are a blow to the tourism and agriculture of the Boarder. I appeal to all the institutions responsible for the control and repression of environmental crimes to keep the environmental matrix healthy, fundamental for the survival of men and other living beings. Closer control is needed both on legal industrial installations and on companies of unscrupulous characters that put the health of all of us at risk. It is difficult to repeat this, but there are shortages of staff and resources for specific offices and authorities in the field of the environment, in which it is becoming a top priority for each administrator's agenda. We must break the trend of polluting, dangerous and sometimes illegal activities, because the damage of such practices is becoming irreversible for health, as well as unsustainable for state funds in terms of health care. We must no longer pursue crimes, but the prevention aspect must be strengthened with greater resources to the control and specific repression bodies. We're running out of time. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u38	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about something that has happened in the last few hours. I am referring in particular to the confession of Cesare Battisti, who finally told that he himself was responsible for the four murders and wounds of the time of terrorism, an era not forgotten. We do not want to know whether it has done so for convenience and what are the reasons behind it. We may have some suspicions, that is, the attempt and the desire to get maybe some penalty discount in the executive, I simply say, however, that forty years later we are beyond the maximum time. But, beyond these considerations, it remains a fact: all those who have supported him to this day find themselves completely naked in the face of what has happened and what has happened. No one apologized, not even those who supported him to the last. I am referring, for example, to Paolo Cento, who said that the years of lead should be closed with an amnesty, or to Valerio Evangelisti, who said that Battisti libero does not constitute a danger to anyone, or to Vauro Senesi, who recently said that he took responsibility for having signed for Battisti. Well, these gentlemen today should be ashamed and apologize to the Italian people for what has happened. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'd just like to remind you that we still have 50 fugitives to take home. In October 2018 I had made a wish, indeed I had asked as a Christmas gift that the Government could bring Cesare Battisti home; he did not arrive for Christmas, but shortly after: well, not bad. Now we must end this tragic period, we must dismiss it, but we cannot do so if we do not bring home these 50 criminals, in many cases communist fighters, who must come to Italy to respond to crimes committed. I say very quietly that it is opportune that someone finally in Italy begins to look at the reality of the facts and to apologize for what has happened and especially for the sentences pronounced, even recently, in favor of this usual delinquent, of this that is not a soldier but simply a rascal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u39	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-102.ana.u40	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13:17 a.m.
