ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u6	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, like all of us, you will have heard today that undersecretary Siri is being investigated. The question is of course of interest to us, even if all the judicial investigations will be carried out on the case. What I have asked for, however, is to point out the situation that has arisen and on which I formally request that the President-in-Office of the Council report: this is obviously not yet another scam within the Government and the majority, but it is a very sensitive issue, Mr President. We have learned in fact that Minister Toninelli has withdrawn the delegations to the Undersecretary Siri and, that the Vice Premier, on the other hand, obviously thinks he has armored him. You know as well as I do that the nominations of the undersecretaries are certainly not made by the President of the Republic, like those of the Ministers, but by the President of the Council. This is a very sensitive issue from an institutional point of view, although the investigations will of course take their course and the judiciary will investigate the case. What is of interest to us, and of which this House should certainly be informed, is to understand how the freezing, suspension or withdrawal of delegations by the Minister has been implemented and how such an important Ministry is to proceed. I believe, among other things, that this is a matter for the Senate House, as it is for the House. I therefore ask Prime Minister Conte to clarify the situation that has arisen and to tell us what his understanding is.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u7	Senator de Petris, this request will also be discussed at the next Conference of Leaders. For the time being, we are taking note of what you have said, but, as I have already said, it will be discussed at a forthcoming meeting of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 2. The speakers, Senators Pellegrini Marco and Rivolta, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Marco.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Economic and Financial Document that deals with us is the first of the current Government and outlines the guidelines of budgetary policy and reform for the next three years. This document confirms the main guidelines of government action, which, as is well known, are based on strengthening the network of social protection and inclusion, on the simplification and efficiency of fiscal policies, on the progressive reduction of our country's growth differential compared to that of the European Union average, as well as on the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. These objectives will be achieved through the revival of investment, support for companies for technological updating and innovation, the overall increase in productivity, tax reform that makes tax fairer, more sustainable and simpler and, finally, the strengthening of social and labour policies. The slowdown in the global economy, detectable in about 70% of the countries, as indicated by the International Monetary Fund, is mainly due to the increasing trade tensions between the United States and China, to the continuing uncertainty linked to Brexit, to the increased socio-economic instability within some emerging economies; all this has strongly influenced the confidence of economic operators and financial markets and, consequently, has negatively affected the conditions of international economic scenario in which the government action for our economy is located. The international situation has caused a decrease in foreign demand, both for Italy and, to an even greater extent, for Germany, having these two economies a strong export vocation, being respectively the first and second manufacturing country in Europe. In particular, the projected growth of Italian GDP in 2019 is, overall, 0.2 percent, decreasing compared to the forecasts of the fiscal law. But, as I said, this decrease is less than, for example, for Germany, which has gone from a growth forecast of 2.1% to 1.8%, then still to 0.9% of the beginning of the year and, finally, it has been cut to 0.5, which is the figure released yesterday. Comparing the data of these two countries, it is noted that the gap - which historically stood around one percent - at this moment is quantifiable around 0.3%. The fact that it concerns Italy today takes note of the sudden and drastic change of the international framework, while it cannot be said that there has been excessive optimism on the part of the Government in recent months. Suffice it to say that the European Commission, in November (so a few months ago) estimated growth for 2019 at 1.2%, while, during the same period, the Italian independent institutions estimated a 0.8%. Moreover, the first signs of economic cycle slowdown in the euro area were already evident in 2018, when a decrease in GDP growth was calculated, which was 1.8% compared to 2.3% in 2017. In fact, even in Italy in 2018 the economy had lost momentum, recording a real GDP growth of 0.9%, down from the 1.6% recorded instead in 2017. In any case, the current expected level of Italian growth takes into account the increase in domestic demand generated mainly by the increased possibility of consumption of more than 5 million Italians, that is those our compatriots who will receive the income of citizenship. In other words, with that measure we put money in the pockets of those who had nothing and this, in addition to being a measure that goes in the direction of social equity and the fight against inequalities, has and will have an anticyclical function, in that it will increase the domestic demand; which will compensate, at least in part, the decrease of the foreign demand. The current legislative scenario set out in the DEF 2019 reflects, therefore, the negative drag effect resulting from the slowdown in the growth of the Italian economy already recorded in the second half of 2018, in an international and European economic context which was much more difficult than expected in autumn. Said that for 2019 the expected growth is of 0.1 percent (plus a 0.1 percent resulting from other interventions being approved these days, therefore for a total of 0.2 percent, as mentioned above) for the following years the DEF provides Prudently that the real growth rate rises to 0.8% in the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. During 2019 there will be a positive impact on the cyclical growth of household consumption - I said earlier - which will come essentially from the income of citizenship, starting from the second quarter of this year, and which will stimulate the consumption of the less well-off families that, as we know, have a propensity to consume higher than average. This alone would have a positive effect on real GDP growth of 0.2 per cent in both 2019 and 2020. It is hardly appropriate to mention - but Mr Rivolta will return to this, who will speak shortly after - that a change of pace in economic policies at European level is desirable to stimulate the domestic demand of all the countries of the Union. A growth in consumption, investment and, ultimately, employment will also result from the flat tax that will already be in force in 2019 for small entrepreneurs and professionals, and this effect has been taken into account in the DEF. With regard to measures relating to the social security system (the so-called 100 quota, but also more) should have a neutral effect this year, while a positive effect on growth is expected to be around 0.1 percentage points in 2020. The increased resources for public investment, allocated by the 2019 Budget Act, should also provide a further stimulus to demand as early as the second quarter of the year, with a contribution to real GDP growth of more than 0.1%. In the new trend framework of public administration accounts, investment would increase by 5.2 percent. In the policy framework of the economy, which therefore faces measures currently being approved, including the so-called unblocking yards and measures for economic growth, an additional growth of 0.1% of real GDP is Prudently estimated, which therefore in the scenario assumed - as I mentioned just now - will bring growth to 0.2% overall in real terms, compared to 0.1% of the trend scenario. Both trend and policy data have been validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office, which has shown that the DEF forecasts and real and nominal GDP dynamics are within the range of change in baseline estimates. As regards the employment calculation, employment and training policies related to citizenship income will ensure that many inactive people will be considered job-seekers, contrary to what happens now, and the unemployment rate is expected to fall in 2021 and 2022, thus returning to the 2018 levels. Mr President, I will stop here, according to the division established with Mrs Rivolta, which will continue on the part concerning public finance. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u11	Mr President, as Mr Marco Pellegrini has already pointed out, this is the first economic and financial document of this legislature, which outlines the economic and budgetary policy lines and the reforms envisaged in the next three years. The slowdown in the current economic situation, mainly due to the growing trade tensions between the United States and China, combined with the emergence of geopolitical tensions in other important countries and the growing socio-economic instability within some emerging countries, has strongly influenced the confidence of economic operators and financial markets. This has adversely affected the conditions of the international economic scenario, in which the Government's action for the Italian economy is based. The effects of the slowdown have been seen on the domestic demand of the main countries, through a significant decrease in investment and a moderation in consumption. Manufacturing activity, especially that aimed at the production of investment goods, has suffered a setback, making particularly exposed the highly specialized economies in the industrial sector and the related countries supplying semi-finished products. In particular, with regard to the euro area, the first signs of economic cycle slowdown have already occurred since 2018, when there has been a decrease in GDP growth, which has stopped at 1.8%, compared to 2.3% in 2017, the driving force of foreign trade has ceased. As mentioned above, since moderation mainly concerned the manufacturing sector, in the face of a more resilient dynamic of services, countries such as Germany and Italy, whose economies, as we know, are industrially driven, have become more concerned. Not only that: the confidence of European economic operators and their investment choices have also been strongly influenced by the uncertainty that has accompanied developments in the UK's exit from the European Union, which is still being defined. For Italy the Document shows that the economy has lost momentum already in 2018, recording a real GDP growth in total of 0.9% in 2018, down from the 1.6% recorded in 2017. The fact that it has most influenced the economic situation of the national economy is the sharp reduction in the positive contribution of domestic demand and, in particular, of the component of private consumption. The current legislative scenario set out in DEF 2019 therefore reflects the negative drag effect resulting from the slowdown in the growth of the Italian economy already recorded in the second half of 2018, in an international and European economic context more difficult than expected last autumn. In any case, for Italy, the forecast for real GDP growth in 2019 is revised downwards by 0.9 percentage points, i.e. 0.1%, compared to the one per cent projected in the scenario of the last update document on the macroeconomic public finance framework, presented last December in the Technical Note annexed to the 2019 budget. For the following years, the Document provides for a gradual increase of the real growth rate to 0.6 per cent in 2020 and 0.7% in 2021, up to 0.9% in 2022, while keeping the forecast period below the level set last December. In this sense, there is no doubt that there will be a positive impact on the cyclical growth of household consumption which will result from citizenship income from the second quarter of this year, which should provide a stimulus to the consumption of the less well-off households which clearly have a higher than average propensity for consumption, which alone would be able to have a positive effect on real GDP growth of 0.2 percentage points in both 2019 and 2020. In similar terms, it is estimated that social security measures (the so-called 100) should have a neutral effect this year, while a positive effect on product level growth is expected to be 0.1 percentage points in 2020. The increased public investment resources allocated by the 2019 Budget Act should also provide a further stimulus to demand. In the new trend framework of public administration accounts, investment would increase by 5.2 percent in 2019, as early as the second quarter of the year, with a contribution to real GDP growth of 0.1 percentage points higher. In the policy framework of the economy, which takes account of measures to launch (including the so-called unblock yards), an additional growth of 0.1 percent (percentage points of real GDP) in 2019 is Prudently estimated, which brings GDP growth in the scenario assumed to be 0.2% in real terms, compared to 0.1 of the trend scenario. This document presents a new policy framework for public finance. It provides for an increase in real and non-rated GDP of 0.2% for 2019 and 0.8% for each of the years 2020-2022. The previous policy framework provided for a rate of 1% for 2019, 1.1 percent for 2020 and 1.1 percent for 2021. This document provides for an unemployment rate of 11% for 2019, 11.1% for 2020, 10.7 for 2021 and 10.4% for 2022. The previous policy framework provided for a rate of 10.3% for 2019, with a subsequent gradual reduction to a value of 9.4 in 2021. The document under consideration provides for a general government net borrowing rate in relation to GDP of 2.4% for 2019, 2.1% for 2020, 1.8% for 2021 and 1.5% for 2022. The previous policy framework provided for a value of 2% for 2019, 1.8% for 2020 and 1.5% for 2021. In a economic context which has profoundly changed into worse economic conditions and, therefore, more complex with this document, the Government confirms the fundamental objectives of its action: the progressive reduction of the growth gap with the European average that has characterized the Italian economy, especially in the last decade and, at the same time, the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. The trend income statement shows a debt of 2.4 percent of GDP for 2019 and, in absolute terms, 42.1 billion. For the following years, therefore, the Government estimates a decrease in net debt compared to 2019 both in absolute value and in relation to GDP, with constant annual reductions, except for the last year of the forecast range (-2 percent of GDP in 2020, -1.8% of GDP in 2021, -1.9% of GDP in 2022). The Government also intends to pursue with the utmost rigour the objective of the progressive reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio, despite the complicated economic scenario in place. For 2019, a debt-to-GDP ratio of 132.6 percent is estimated, above the 130% figure foreseen by NADEF 2018, of 129 percent foreseen by the 2019 Draft Budget Document (DPB) and 130.7 percent foreseen by the December 2018 macroeconomic and public finance framework. In 2018 the Italian economy grew by 0.9%, slowing down compared to the previous year. Trend growth has been reduced by 0.1% for the current year due to the reflection of a context of international economic weakness, which takes into account variable measures such as the dynamics of world trade, the exchange rate profile and oil prices. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u12	The minority rapporteur, Senator Misiani, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u13	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Misiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u14	Mr President, we can summarize this document of economics and finance in two words: failure and impotence. The DEF numbers certify the failure of the government's economic policy. On September 27, when the Update Note was presented, you predicted an increase of 1.5%. Three months later the government has reduced its forecast to 1% and today we read in the DEF that the trend growth this year will be 0.1% and that programmatic one of 0.2. It's not growth; it's stagnation. Since mid-2018 Italy has lost 116,000 jobs and in 2019 Italy will be the last for growth among 39 advanced countries. We are Europe's weak link. In 2019 it worsens, compared to the forecasts of three months ago, the deficit (which rises to 2.4 percent); it worsens the debt: it was estimated at 130.7% and will touch, according to the government's numbers, 132.6 percent. It is the record since 1924 and is an optimistic estimate because it incorporates privatisations for a point of GDP that will never be made. Unemployment is worse: it had to be 10.3% and it will be 11%. Of course, the international situation weighs heavily on these forecasts, the trade war between the United States and China, the slowdown in the euro zone, the braking of Germany, but much is due to national factors. This has been explained by the Bank of Italy, the Parliamentary Budget Office and all the economic and social forces we have heard. Italy, Mr President, has been growing less than the euro area for more than twenty years. That growth gap, however, had gradually decreased and dropped to 0.7 points in 2017. Since 2018 it has resumed to grow and this year will return to 1.1 or 1.2 percentage points. This has happened because the confidence of consumers, businesses and savers has collapsed in our country and when confidence collapses, investments are blocked, the purchases of durable goods are postponed and rowing in the boat, waiting for better times. The main reason for the collapse of confidence is political uncertainty and the doubts of economic operators about the underlying intentions of the Government and the majority. Mr President, the spread is the financial thermometer of the crisis of trust in our country. Before the elections it was less than 130 points, at the most tense moments of the clash with the European Commission it exceeded 300 points and for weeks it has been steadily over 250 points. It is a real monetary grip, that we have self-imposed and that is costing dearly to our country, in terms of greater interests, that the Bank of Italy has quantified in 1.5 billion euros more for this year, in 3.5 billion euros more in 2020 and in 6 billion euros more in 2021 and that is costing us dear in terms of lack of growth, with a reduction of 0.7 points in the three-year period, always according to the Bank of Italy. Beware that this situation is the result of a wrong economic policy and a budget law, which has concentrated all available resources on two measures - 100 percent and citizenship income - which will cost €44 billion in three years and €125 billion in ten years. These are two interventions financed in deficit, signing on behalf of all Italians the maxichange of VAT increases from 2020 onwards. Let's be clear: strengthening measures against poverty was necessary in this country and it could be done by strengthening what was there, that is, the income of inclusion, avoiding starting from scratch, but you made a different choice. Expanding the flexibility margins of the pension system was certainly appropriate. This had to be done in a structural way, however, not for three years, perhaps by spending less, but by concentrating resources on the most fragile categories and weary jobs, by introducing a youth guarantee pension, moving forward on the path initiated by the previous government. You've made your choices, you've committed money that the country didn't have, and you've burdened future generations with debt. You have done so, knowing that we could not afford it and removing any room for manoeuvre for development policies. You have looked at the present, at the next elections, but in doing so you have drastically reduced the margin of intervention for the future. Your budget law has reduced resources for public investment, dismantled incentives for private investment, increased the tax burden on companies. You have blocked major infrastructure projects, archived the expenditure review and have not put an extra euro on school and research. You didn't put money on the future, but you only looked after the immediate electoral deadlines. We are paying for these mistakes today, with a much greater slowdown than is happening in other advanced countries. Mr President, the most worrying aspect of this DEF, however, concerns the future and the perspective of the country. The policy framework for the three-year period 2020-2022 is uncomfortable, with growth systematically less than one percent per year, that is half of what the country was growing with you so vicious Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments. Mr Garavaglia, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. And Monti! Mr Misiani (PD). Unemployment is expected to increase in 2020 and public finances are expected to deteriorate, with estimates - I repeat - which are optimistic, because they incorporate privatisations that you will not do and a zero of the snowball effect on debt, which we have never recorded in the last ten years and so we will check whether it will actually be there. For these reasons we consider the DEF to be a declaration of impotence in our examination, because the Government does not have a strategy, does not have a vision of economic policy and does not have a time horizon that goes beyond the next European elections. You have closed yourself into a permanent electoral campaign dimension, but in doing so you have renounced all ambition to promote a new model of sustainable development from an environmental and social point of view. And on the environment, your DEF, which incorporates a very little ambitious energy and climate plan, plays down; It does so on emission reduction targets, on renewable sources, on the development of solar energy and above all does not put money on the goal of sustainable development. Your DEF speaks of sustainable mobility, of course, but then cuts EUR 300 million to local public transport, putting at risk an essential service for citizens and going in the exact opposite direction to that of sustainable development and mobility that you also claim in the DEF. That is the situation, Mr President. The government does not have an economic policy and does not have the faintest idea of how to set up the 2020 budget maneuver. The UPB has done two counts on the money it needs: 25 billion in 2020, 36 in 2021 and 45 in 2022 just to leave things as they are. It is 106 billion in three years that you have to find just to not increase the tax burden and do nothing else. It is a dramatic scenario that we are facing, it is like climbing Everest with your hands tied behind your back and it is this difficulty that explains the choice of Minister Tria in the DEF to confirm the increase of VAT provided by the current legislation. What you have written, in fact, is not a mere lexical formula. In the DEF 2017 - the last programmatic of the governments of the center-left - we had written some clear things; we had written black on white: "we expect the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses". You write something different, that is that the current tax legislation is confirmed while waiting to define alternative measures: you write it three times (on page 7, on page 39 and on page 48). Anyone who has ears to mean, Mr President. These words mean a truth operation (better late than never): they mean that VAT will increase until proven otherwise, until the definition of alternative measures that your Government does not have the faintest idea of how to define. This was the point that emerged in the hearing of Minister Tria. There is also a second certainty, beyond the chatter of the two Vice Premier: the immediately cut of two billion euros that you had set aside in the budget law. In there, Mr President, there are EUR 300 million for public transport, but there are also EUR 100 million for university, for the right to study and for research, which cut immediately, beyond the declarations of the Economic and Financial Document. It is unacceptable that this government, on the one hand, discusses how to reduce taxes to those who are better off with flat tax and then cuts public transport funds and plans to increase VAT. This is the basic figure of the Document of Economics and Finance: the reluctance, the renunciation and the expectation of improbable better times. We must change course, Mr President, and we in our resolution point out some proposals in the immediate and medium term. We propose to clarify VAT (no to the increase in VAT without whether or not but, because it is a depressive and regressive measure affecting the middle class and the weakest classes), to put public debt back on a descending path (otherwise we risk big), to spend the resources already allocated (220 billion) for public investment. We also propose, in the medium term, to find resources for school, for health care, for the real needs of this country, for the cutting of the tax wedge, doing what you have not done so far: the revision of expenditure, tax breaks, environmentally harmful subsidies. I say this on the day that Greta Thunberg spoke to the Senate of the Republic: with sixteen billion euros we finance fossil sources, which damage the climate of our planet and that you have not yet had the courage to cut. We propose that you speak on these points and we hope that the Senate will be able to discuss them with a constructive debate, away from the demagogies and, for once, putting the general interest of the country at the centre. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u15	I would ask you to respect the time, because otherwise at 7 p.m. there will be no direct television for explanations of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a rather strange situation, in the sense that we are talking about three DEFs: the one presented by Minister Tria, for which we have held hearings, and two more of which are announced to be released, one by Vice-President Salvini and the other by Vice-President Di Maio. For the moment let's stick to the only one we've read, because of the other two we've only seen statements to the press. Looking at this DEF I thought that first of all, compared to the previous one, there is a dose of healthy realism: fortunately all the bodies that had been audited during the examination of the DEF last year had drawn the attention of the Government to a too optimistic approach of the data both the macroeconomic ones, and the economic-financial policy of our country. This year there is a document that brings back the ambitions of this government a little bit to earth. In the rules of the football game there is an unwritten rule, the eighteenth, which is taught to aspiring football referees as to always apply when they go on a playground: it is the rule of so-called common sense. I am referring to the overall attitude that obliges young referees to use some intelligence and strategy to avoid unpleasant situations. I do not know much common sense in this DEF as it was presented. As Senator Misiani recalled a moment ago, even yesterday at the hearing, Minister Tria pedested the application of VAT safeguard clauses to existing legislation; immediately after, in two statements, Di Maio and Salvini said that absolutely no VAT will be touched, the assets will not be put on, the current accounts will not be touched, a mini flat tax will be applied and anything else. Where do we get the money? Mr. Deputy Minister, I know you and appreciate your balance and your technical knowledge, but where do we find the money? Of the two decree-laws that we talk a lot about these days (the one on growth and unblocking-cantiers) are even brought the beneficial effects in the DEF, i.e. the numbers are reported, but we have not seen a text that clarifies their content and how and how we achieve this result. You understand that it seems almost a fidelistic game to consider these traumatic data of beauty. Sometimes I like to listen to President Bagnai giving us learned dissertations and clearly I am very attentive to what he tells us. If I were to place this attitude of the majority within the Dante group, I would place them in the eighth Bolge, where the deceivers and false counselors are placed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] whose main representative is Guido da Montefeltro, whom Dante in the XXVII singing of Hell cites as a deceiver. We need a truthful operation, we need to tell the Italians where we are going to find the resources to support these policies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Today on the stock exchange there was an increase in the spread after the contradictory statements yesterday between Minister Tria and the two Vice Presidents of the Council. The stock exchange doesn't believe you today, it doesn't trust you and lack of confidence is the main reason why our economy doesn't grow. I come from the North and even to the North there are situations of discomfort. You mentioned, as a single positive figure, the increase in industrial production in February, except that this morning Istat stated that they are false data. Industrial production in February did not grow at all. So, more importantly, all those trend data that have been identified are data that should impose common sense and prudence. We all know this: in fifteen days there is an electoral round, and surely we will have to tell the Italians some lies, some lies, because we absolutely cannot hope that there will be such a competent Minister as Tria sent to be thrown away and then, immediately afterwards, contradict him clearly. Between VAT and illusory privatisations, we will have a 60 billion maneuver without development and with three state budgets at risk. There are some fundamental reflections to be made. The first is the non-coherence of macroeconomic frameworks with the resulting public finance frameworks. The second is the measure of the effects of the government's economic policies expressed directly by the government. The public finance framework indicates a GDP growth rate for 2019 of 0.2 per cent, rising from 0.2 to 0.8 in 2020, 2021 and 2022. The unemployment rate is rising from 10.6 per cent in the current year to 10.4% in 2020 and 2021. In fact, we would return to annual unemployment rates in 2021. Therefore, the impact and effect of your economic policies on employment is zero: for three years it does not grow at all. Against this, the public deficit is expected to rise to 2.4 percent of GDP this year, and will then fall to 2.1, 1.8 and 1.5% from 2020 onwards. In this way (this is the amount of realism that I recognise at the DEF), the improvement agreed before Christmas in the famous ballet that was carried out by this Government with the European Commission is eliminated. Government debt relative to GDP rose to 132.6 percent in 2019; it fell to 131, 130.2 and 128.9 percent in the following years. This would be a reduction of 3.3% over four years, which would be 0.8% per year. These macroeconomic frameworks are completely inconsistent with those of public finance. The crux is that of the two: if VAT increases, as provided for in the legislation in force under the safeguard clauses, the growth of 2020 will go well below zero, between -1 and -2 percent; if VAT does not increase in 2020, growth to 0.8% could also be achieved but, at the same time, the public deficit rises to 3.5% and the public debt would go to 135% of GDP. The second point concerns the effects of economic policy. The economic policy effects that the government, not the opposition but the government, expects from its economic policies are equal to a boost to growth - attention - of 0.1% this year and 0.2% in 2020. In the next two years, the total impulse will be null; the Government has said it not us. Faced with this tiny and ephemeral impact on growth, the government's economic policy worsens the deficit and public debt conditions. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your time, and I shall begin immediately at the end of my report. With our resolution we would clearly like the Government to formally commit itself to avoiding the application of the safeguard rules. The text, however, is very varied and very complex. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u17	Motions for resolutions on this document will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF is a powerful tome that if it were printed in its entirety and for everyone, it would cost us a forest. I begin with an appeal. Either you say that the DEF doesn't count and is deliberately empty because you don't know what to do, or you stop and say: But the organisms that make us fleas are all biased or is it better to deepen? I am thinking of Europe (I am Eurosceptic and would discuss it), the OECD and the UPB. At the time of the so-called First Republic, a 0.1% difference would have resulted in journalistic tragedies, debates and strikes. Now, instead, the parameters dance from 0.9% to 0.1% for GDP, the deficit rises to 2.4% and the public debt is 133 and broken percent of GDP, not to mention unemployment. Or the government says, "I don't promise anymore." I don't promise not to spend anymore, everything I said and that I want to do creates problems for me. According to the Parliamentary Budget Office, which is a third party body, in addition to 42 billion this year (which is the 2.4% increase on page 58 of the Document), another EUR 25 billion is needed for next year, 36 billion for the next year and 45 billion for the next year. These figures, added to the EUR 42 billion per year, would mean that public debt would increase by EUR 240 billion by 2022, except for other measures to reduce it. However, in the end, we have unfortunately seen that with previous governments, those not voted by the people, the public debt has increased by 200 billion euros and broken. For me - I say this with regret - causes the cash - which is not the competence - plus the residuals, in addition to the approximately 42 billion expected, on page 54 of the DEF, always to be precise (the primary surplus of 21 billion euros is in fact beautifully eaten by the interests, which are equal to approximately 64 billion, as always in all the years), you put at risk another 50 billion, that will come out at the end of the year. I try to tell you why: in the DEF we do not talk about the cost of energy (if I have not missed), but the TAP we do not do it (the TIP - or what it is called - maybe yes); the unlocking measure will come out, but with the rules of 2017; the investments are not known if they will leave (but No TAV and therefore do not leave); the interest of the debt is now equal to 3.4 percent of the GDP (i.e. turnover) and will rise to 3.9. This is a crazy figure, even in a private economy. The primary surplus, which is strong and remarkable, and it is the effort of Italy, as already mentioned, is eaten by spread, that is by interests. The 0.1% figure, i.e. 10 spread points, is €2.4 billion. Each statement made before breakfast in a careless way causes a damage of 2.4 billion euros. As I have said before, we must be careful. The NPLs in the banking system are indigestible at these doses of Europe and, therefore, banks squeeze the stock exchange. The discharge you have planned this year amounts to EUR 17.8 billion. In 2018 the figure of 5.3 billion was expected and zero was collected; in 2017 EUR 5.3 billion was expected and the collection was 0.1 billion. Now the figure of EUR 17.8 billion is part of the 50, on which I've been a little freaked out. Then there are situations of objective difficulty. Federalism, if we want to say it all in Italian, will never be done because it is a matter of money. Would you like to say that if Lombardy has a surplus of 10 billion euros (I don't know if the figure is right) and says that it does not want to pay them more or only 5, the rest of Italy is willing to accept it transversally? Federalism is not feasible if it is implemented differently and I am a federalist. The fight against tax evasion is another one of those things that has always been promised. Tax expenses, on page 59 of the DEF, begin with the famous 80 euro bonus, which costs 9.4 billion euros. Then there are all the other deductions, which are used for construction and development, but they cost 46 billion euros. About the flat tax for everyone I read an interesting article that said: to implement the flat tax you have to have an IRS like the American one: if you miss go to jail. Justice, by adopting the Davigo model, so there are no innocent but only guilty people who got away with it, I don't think it will clear matters. I'm gonna finish. Shock measures would be needed, as in the Berlusconi government's day. The Tremonti law is no longer available, the world has changed so it is no longer necessary, but it would require a dry reduction of taxes for all; to reduce to a single tax with an X rate; no support, aid, contributions or exemptions, that favor customerism and are too expensive. There's no mention of the export promotion. There has been some talk of this in this House. If necessary, it should be done through consulates and embassies, as President Berlusconi said. The attack on the public debt is my battlehorse. We need a rescue fund from Italy - I offer my help to Deputy Minister Garavaglia - and we can save billions on interest. But what do you say we make it work well in the meantime what is in Italy, from the apex to the last Municipality? This is with the laws that there are, with sound management, with quick investments for people to commit themselves, all: from the mayor to the city councilor, from the sole head of the procedure (RUP) to the municipal secretary and to all those who are part of the contraption. In conclusion, we cannot live on polls. By living in surveys you struggle and then you make measures that do not give results and that are only pure image. We attack the public debt otherwise the public debt will attack us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u19	Before I give the floor to Senator Nencini, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Senator Calderoli a happy birthday. [[Applause.]] I'm guessing you're gonna want to celebrate tonight with all the senators at dinner. [[Laughter.]] Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the two majority reports and I was surprised that in both conclusions both rapporteurs literally supported: The Government confirms its intended objectives. I do not know what objectives we are referring to, because - it has already been mentioned by Senator Misiani - in September the Government predicted a growth of 1.5%, while today we are thinking about significantly lower terms. So we have the certainty that the budget law passed in a pyrotechnic way last December must be completely revised. A structural revision that many of us expected would have taken place at least by framing it, as a starting point, within the Document of Economics and Finance. It's not like that. There is a lack of a strategic vision of the national economy; we are in the absence of a position of Italy within a deeply changed geopolitical framework and - I must say - in the moments when history is screwed along hairpins of profound change, if there is no relationship between geopolitics and structural choices of the economy, it is difficult to get out of conditions of deep emergency like those that Italy is experiencing. I add in the margin a consideration. I will not talk about numbers: you have done it and the minority rapporteurs have done it, each one of them. The number of meanings, not coincident, indicates, however, a photograph of a country in serious difficulty. I would just like to emphasise one aspect. It was my opinion, until a few days ago, that the government was moving according to a logic from permanent electoral campaign, as has been said; the logic that I saw prevalent was that of a continuous presentism. Reading the document of economics and finance, it must correct this opinion as well: not only do we not see what strategic framework the government has to refer to, but I do not even read what the measures related to a permanent election campaign presentism are. I quote the cases, one by one, drawing them from the Document of Economics and Finance (so they are not, Deputy Minister, personal opinions). There is no talk of flat tax accompanying it with numbers; there is talk of increased VAT (at least in the statements of the Minister who has full competence on the subject); there is no investment plan for infrastructure. This assessment was also the subject of comments and a surreal debate within the 8th Commission. Better, then, to mention the documents that were produced by the government. I quote the title of the chapter: 'Infrastructures'; I read: 'Pur is absent, compared to previous FEDs, a specific Infrastructure Annex (...), the issue of revitalising infrastructure is particularly important in the PNR. I seek, excavate, discard in the Document of economy and finance and I find no quotation of a work to be brought to conclusion, nor of a euro to be put to face the realization of that work. Therefore, the statements contained within the DEF are absolutely unfounded. I would like to be, Deputy Minister, happily contradicted, perhaps with numbers and with the quotation of a work that is not generic, just like the paragraph I read. Unfortunately, it does not come back and it is now not possible to counterfeit numbers, because they are produced by top institutions that you have completely changed, so it is assumed that they are provided by professionals not only adequate, but also chosen by this Government. It therefore does not correspond to the truth - I address the two majority rapporteurs - that the debt-to-GDP ratio is decreasing. It is exactly the opposite: the debt-to-GDP ratio is increasing, indeed it is increasing: it has been recorded that it is still today, at 4 p.m., more or less on the increase, as well as the spread. Mr President, if such a significant document for such a significant country is to be placed within a geopolitical framework, the Government should respond on two issues in the meantime. The first: what do we think about the European Union? Because it's one thing to change it. It's another thing to bomb it every day. The second: if the memorandum that the Government has prepared and signed concerning the Silk Road has a meaning to modify our structure within the typical international relations, framework, of this country. I conclude with an opinion, which is, of course, the personal opinion of the speaker. If there is no strategy and if there is no presentism linked to an imminent election campaign, because I think exactly like Voltaire - so who is in front of me is, at least, smarter than me - I don't think there is naivety. If there is neither the one, nor the other solution, the only explanation I can give - and I conclude, President - is that, in the aftermath of the elections, we proceed towards that direction that a great connoisseur of the Italian reality, Giuseppe De Rita (who I still call teacher), believes to be that of man only in command. There's no other choice. Let us not therefore prepare with the Count Government any concrete choice for the immediate: let us prepare an electoral campaign and entrust to a bathing government - whatever it may be - if not to an electoral campaign for the political elections, the final solution for the Italian Republic. That's why I won't vote. I do not participate in the vote on a tome about the sex of the agnoli and forgive me the quote Brancaleone to the Crusades. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, representatives of the Government, the 2019 Economic and Finance Document is the first of the Government of Change and follows the economic and social reform programme described in the DEF Update Note last autumn, which was then reflected in the budget law. It is true that the document revises downwards the rate of growth of Italian GDP which, however, in the first months of the year, has already given some slight signal of recovery, as evidenced by the projections presented here in Parliament, among others by Istat and the Bank of Italy, in the hearings on the DEF. The revision of growth estimates must be inserted in a context of economic slowdown which, in increasingly interdependent and interconnected global dynamics, largely derives from the commercial tensions and fibrillations related to Brexit. It is clear, however, that we are at a time of particular difficulty in the eurozone, in which the slowdown in Germany has always been a driving force for the European economy is striking. The slowdown is affecting manufacturing, an important sector of the economy, both German and Italian. Italy also suffers from some unfavourable starting conditions, such as the youth and female employment gap compared to the European average, which is accompanied by a marked decline in the population. Faced with the current context of economic fragility, both national and international, however, the Government of change reacts with responsibility and with even greater conviction, after having approved an expansive maneuver in countertrend compared to all the maneuvers of the last ten years, which focused above all on cuts and austerity, maneuvers that have never led Italy to an economic revival. This DEF outlines structural and organic expansionary reforms that aim to achieve concrete and lasting results, thanks to the increase of the disposable income of the families, especially the less well-off ones, the support to the consumption, the job, the investments triggered by the measures contained, in particular, in the decrees increase and unblock yards in the phase of finalization. The growth forecast in the DEF should also be understood as very conservative, considering the synergistic effect of the many actions that push in the same direction and it is reasonable to think of growth that may prove to be higher than the prudent estimates contained in the Document. The Government and the majority who support it intend to act on several fronts. A lot of attention is devoted to small and medium-sized enterprises, a genuine scaffolding of the economic system. In this respect, measures to reduce taxes, simplify administrative procedures and protect businesses in crisis must be read. Measures to improve the business environment are also needed to strengthen these policies. Among these, very appropriately the Government indicates as priorities those that aim to the protection of the made in Italy, to the promotion of the internationalization of the Italian enterprises, to the strengthening of the venture capital and the Plan enterprise 4.0, to the protection of the environment and to the development of the field of the renewable energies, to the promotion of the technological innovation, being of vital importance for the Country to overcome the gap on the digital one and to face the challenge of the future that sees the fast and unstoppable process of change in course in all the fields. (16.10 a.m.) (Following GALLICK). Within the growth decree, recalled by the DEF, there are measures governing the tax credit for research and development activities and for the return of the so-called brains on the run, that is those professionals - many of whom young - who for lack of opportunity were forced to leave their territories. A measure which is far from secondary if we consider that the International Monetary Fund is the highest figure for Italy in the last fifty years of young people fleeing abroad. Here's what we're talking about: necessary changes of course in which the government is committed, which would have been really useful even in the past decades. In fact, in the unblocking-gates - another decree recalled from the DEF - is aimed at the resumption of the field of the constructions, slimming the legislation currently too plastered of the code of the contracts, and on the front of the public investments are many the actions outlined from the DEF in order to speed up the use of the resources from the central and territorial public administrations. Added to this is the important plan against hydrogeological failure; a plan that channeles resources allocated in the maneuver that finally gives priority to prevention. The 5 Star Movimento has fought hard to give life immediately to the citizenship income program, as we know, with its basic functions of income support and the fight against poverty: a strategy that at the same time intends to re-found active policies at work. The results of this complex political action will be visible in the coming months because it will realistically take a reasonable period of time to reap the full benefits and, on the other hand, we will achieve results of stable and lasting growth. I should say a lot more. Certainly I have not said everything or could have done so in these few minutes, but, in closing, I want to reiterate the firm commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars not to allow any increase in VAT. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In fact, from now on, we are constantly working, with a strong sense of responsibility, on solutions that are already present on the table. On the contrary, the aim of the measures planned is to reduce the tax burden on both households and businesses on a permanent basis, stimulating investment and employment. We need, gentlemen, a serious and strong political will. In the government and in the Movimento 5 Stars there is this will; I hope that the same will emerges as much as possible among all political forces in the interest of the country. I therefore hope, Mr President, that this House will approve the 2019 Economic and Financial Document as widely as possible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u23	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u24	Mr President, I apologise in advance if there is a bit of emotion in my words, because this is the first time I have spoken in this House, having taken over for twenty days, so there is so much emotion. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Mr President, I am going to discuss this Economic and Financial Programming Document with the heart of those who have as their primary asset the general interest of the country, and in this light and with this logic, the act before us has very serious shortcomings, as my minority colleagues have also anticipated before me. After a few days in which we analysed the text in the Commission and deepened it, also in the light of the numerous technical hearings that took place in the presence of distinguished personalities of the Italian economic scene, the time has come to leave room for politics. This document of economics and finance, as prepared by the Government of Lega and 5 Stars, cannot find the support of the Brothers of Italy Group at all. Why do I say that? Because, as the analysis in the Budget Committee has shown, there is absolutely no growth forecast, which is flat, from an estimate of 1% to a miserable 0.2. On the other hand, there is no flat tax, mentioned only in passing in some lines within this Document: yet, it would have constituted a tax cut immediately operational and also at zero cost for the state coffers. If it were applied, it would be a real breath of oxygen for families and our businesses: only by reducing taxes, in fact, can we hope to restart growth and consumption. I want to remind you that flat tax was a theme shared by the center-right in the last election campaign and should have been part of the government program. This DEF confirms that on this strategic framework for the country's economy, the two allies of government, in order to change, do not agree. It is therefore regrettable to note - and I am addressing my colleagues in the League in particular - the betrayal of an electoral promise in the name of a government contract that is not taking anywhere and that this document proves to be practically insufficient. Brothers of Italy expected the introduction of flat tax, the real one: in this sense our party, with Giorgia Meloni, made dozens of proposals, all rejected. With this premise, we have reason to believe and think that the Commission's economic line is made by more taxes and bureaucracy, but little support for those who work and produce. As a parliamentary group, we can only be disappointed and concerned about the lack of certainty about the risk of increasing VAT, which - as previous speakers have already said - is clear from this document. What does that risk entail? Istat's estimates, which we have audited in the Commission and which is certainly not biased, show that an increase in VAT would lead to a contraction in consumption, but above all to an increase in prices. In particular, it pointed out that, with an increase in VAT of 3.2 points for the ordinary rate and 3 points for the reduced rate, the effect on prices would be greater than 2 percentage points in the months and years to come. The increase in VAT, therefore, cannot be separated from that of prices and we know well how these increases affect the weakest sections of the Italian people. After years of economic crisis, in which Italians also attacked their savings, the increase in VAT would result in a further increase in spending on citizens and businesses. We understand that the government is counting on welfare measures, such as citizenship income, for the recovery of consumption, but unfortunately for the Commission, this is not how it can work: the rise in prices in fact discourages consumption, regardless of the income you will receive. The truth is that this government, on the increase in VAT, is struggling to take a clear position, instead preferring to focus everything on the welfare of citizenship income, when instead it would be appropriate to curb and prevent the increase in taxes and taxes. Brothers of Italy asks that VAT not increase, without if and without but. Minister Tria, even yesterday in the Commission you said that, without alternatives, VAT will increase: well, you find the alternatives, you are Minister of the Republic and it is you who has the task of finding the solution to this problem, which would bring Italy into a devastating recession. There is also another real risk: that taxes and taxes should be increased and that debt should not be reduced. This is what the Economic Planning Document under consideration says. The forecast framework on which we are working will produce a further increase in public debt, without any affection on growth, creating a paradox: more debt, less growth. They do not improve the accounts and do not improve the living conditions of Italians, who risk being literally appeased. Why do I say that? Because the Economic and Finance Document confirms the cut - as some colleagues have said - of EUR 300 million to local public transport: a slaughter, contained within the National Transport Fund, from which these EUR 300 million are deducted. The alarm was launched by the Conference of the Regions, through the city council member to the budget of the Lombardy Region and the appeal made by this councilman cannot remain unheard. In December - as has been reported in the Commission - there is a risk that local public transport will remain in storage; there is a real danger that local authorities will find themselves unable to comply with contracts signed with local transport companies and payment times to their suppliers. This further 300 million euro cut is also a measure that goes against environmental objectives and makes a couple with the rejection of some infrastructures, such as the High Speed Turin-Lyon, which are instead strategic for a new culture of mobility linked to the railways, which are the less impacting transport system for our environment. We at the Brothers of Italy hope that the construction sites will be opened for the great works, which would bring more than 150,000 jobs. Ultimately: more TAV, less tax. This is the recipe that we would have liked to read in the Document that we are now discussing. Moreover, there is no sign of growth for our young people either. On the contrary, the DEF provides for a reduction in expenditure to support education, which increases to 3.5% of gross domestic product in 2021, and then falls even further in the following years. The costs for school and university are reduced. If these are the schools we want to give our children, then we do not complain if they prefer to go to study and work abroad. This is proven proof that you are not investing in the future of our children. Moreover, in this DEF Brothers of Italy sees no prospects and does not see investments, but only notes on current expenditure. What finally emerges is that everything is postponed: growth is postponed, the possibility of avoiding the increase in VAT is postponed, the flat tax is postponed, a bit as if we were at school. Let me say that the government is also postponed, because it prefers to put its head in the sand rather than act. The imperative is to wait; moreover, we are in the election campaign, courageous choices are also risky choices, and then it is clear that you preferred to wait on 26 May, as if there were no tomorrow after the European elections. Brothers of Italy takes note of an inconsistent DEF for this Parliament and for our national economy. In addition, today we are presenting to the House a motion for a resolution, which includes very specific points; among other things, the removal of the safeguard clause which provides for the increase in VAT, the avoidance of further and different increases in the tax burden, the introduction of a 15% flat tax for households and businesses. I should like to end by thanking you, Mr President, and telling you that the Brothers of Italy will clearly vote against this DEF, because in our opinion there is no strategic vision that will allow Italy to come back great. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there are no particular doubts within the macroeconomic framework contained in the Programming Document. All estimates by the Monetary Fund, the main study centres and the independent authorities show a general downward revision of the growth prospects for the most advanced countries, even more substantial in Europe. All this takes place within a framework of profound and rapid changes in the development of world trade. Scenarios that are transposed into the DEF, your first DEF, which must necessarily consolidate, in the balance of public finance and in the trend GDP, the effects and repercussions of the budget law and the main provisions of the government contract between the League and 5 Stars. Let us say straight away, ladies and gentlemen, that this macroeconomic framework is being implemented behind schedule, as it was already predictable under the budget law. We could say: better late than never, welcome in reality and above all aware that you are in the government of the country. It was not difficult to predict in advance the measures needed to support growth and development. All we had to do was listen to so many proposals, some of them also made by us. It was enough to listen more carefully to the analysis of the independent authorities, the social partners and economic associations, which since the end of 2018 indicated this macroeconomic framework. With the same clarity and clarity, we believe that, within this macro-economic framework, your failure is being consumed. The DEF, inadequate, spineless, all bent and oriented to generate expectations for the electoral campaign that seems never to be exhausted, produces serious and heavy uncertainties at the expense of the economy, families and businesses of this country. If we keep this context together with the propensity that you have developed so far to oppose the past, the damage you are producing is likely to be costly for young people first, for Italy that produces and works, for families and for businesses that - let's never forget - are the heart of a community. The DEF is a missed opportunity: it does not identify a project; it does not indicate a priority. It exhausts, in my opinion, the positive cycle you have generated with the elections, which you have consumed quickly within an impossible mediation of two competitive projects (the League and the 5 Star Movement) that have gradually gained more distance and greater competitiveness. Together they become unsustainable and, when together, they are often alternative and competitive and produce very significant cultural and ideological damage in our country. The measures introduced by your budgetary law consolidate in the budget of the public administration a worrying fact that, in our opinion, risks parking Italy in recession for a long time. My colleague, Mr Misiani, has already made this picture and context clear in numbers and data. Just read the reports of the Bank of Italy and the Parliamentary Budget Office. A very worrying structural fact emerges clearly: in 2018 expenditure grew by 1.2% less than the product and by 9.3 billion euros overall. If we analyze these 9.3 billion, we would realize that, with regard to current disbursements (+18.2 billion), they are compensated in the balance only with a reduction of more than 8.8 billion of capital expenditure (-13.1 percent). If we add to this the repercussions of the most important political choices that have shown results that are not conducive to development and growth - I mean citizenship income and 100 - in 2019 will be added another 15.2 billion and 33 in the three-year period, over 50 billion euros of expenditure taken away from debt and investment. This is a worrying and structural framework, which has no solution. That is why the DEF consolidates the increase in VAT. We risk being the country with the highest VAT, with a consequent regression of consumption and to pay it is always the families, just the less well-off ones, that are seen to further reduce their purchasing power. The reduction of employment and the increase in the tax burden that you are generating and that will be discharged in 2019 also through a tax release, which today leads many municipalities and many territories to increase the Irpef, the IMU and the Tasi, will produce no less, but more taxes for families and businesses. To be impressed is always the middle class, unfortunately. We say this very clearly: after fourteen quarters of growth, we have already gone through two quarters in technical recession. It did not take long to anticipate consistent measures for growth and development. You are doing this with a huge delay, with an incomprehensible inadequacy, which in some respects becomes a disgrace, because we are discussing an Economic and Financial Programming Document which already incorporates measures that this Parliament does not know about growth, unblocking yards and boosting investment. It is something incomprehensible because, after six months of technical recession, it was enough to anticipate these measures in order to make more fluid and coherent an idea of the development of this country. This is the DEF. Unfortunately, it's a DEF that hides so many promises: it's the pay that worries me and worries us. You see, VAT is being played on the Italians. I want to say this to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: announce that VAT will not increase with you in the Government and we tell you, very clearly, that so far we have not increased VAT to the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to make this clear, because this type of approach and, above all, the paying agencies are dumping unsustainable burdens on debt and current expenditure. You have built an idea of spending review without reforms and spineless. Let us remember that, in order to prevent the reduction of expenditure from being discharged into smaller public services and schools, we need to reverse trends. Today, a single measure would be needed for development and growth: a new economic and social model, which includes the ecological conversion of the economy. Tax wedges should be reduced, labour costs reduced and minimum wages for workers and families increased. These would be useful measures. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u27	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very conservative DEF and it could not be otherwise, because it is actually a document that comes now, in April, when the effects of the December budget law are known to be unquantifiable and the measures have yet to be put into effect. But let's make a little bit of a recent story. We have come from years of extraordinary international positive conjuncture, with oil at the lowest, interest at the lowest with the quantitative easing of Mario Draghi, a change between euro and dollar favorable, yet Italy has remained taillight. Furthermore, I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Manca, that we have already defused the VAT safeguard clause once, and that is why we should clarify this point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Well, given the results of recent years, with the budget law we wanted to change strategy with respect to the past. The experience of the Monti, Renzi and Gentiloni Governments Silveri teaches that to aim for the reduction of the deficit in order to reduce the debt, with restrictive policies, that penalize the GDP, one obtains a worsening result, with a debt that, in particular, has gone from Monti to Gentiloni Silveri, from 120 percent to 132 percent of the GDP: it is evident that the maneuvers of those governments were not on the right path. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We do not claim to have the magic wand, but at least we must be allowed to change the register. The budget maneuver wanted to act on the fundamentals of the Italian economy: domestic demand and investment. It has done so through the pivotal measures of quota 100 and of the income of citizenship, estimated Prudently in their effects still to be verified, but which will certainly give impetus to the demand of the weakest categories and to a greater liveliness of the labour market, with a undoubted generational turnover. Even the estimate of new recruitments, against retirements based on the so-called 100 quota, of 30%, seems to be too low and too conservative. There are, therefore, measures to boost domestic demand, both in terms of public investment and in terms of incentives for companies. The big challenge is to get a blocked country back on track. Here then the increase of the thresholds of contract from 40,000 to 150,000 euros, the unblocking of the leftovers of administration of the municipalities, the intervention on the municipalities under the 20,000 inhabitants, that they have seen to rise from 60,000 to 100,000 euros for projects already available and feasible by May. Small measures, which may seem minor to the opposition, but which go to act and inject resources immediately expendable on our territory, which is made up of small and micro-reality. Still, in the private sector, the mini flat tax, the 15% tax for revenues up to 65,000 euros, the 5% tax for new VAT consignments, the dry coupon for new commercial rents, the doubling of the deductibility of the IMU on the sheds, the reduction of the INAIL premiums by 30%, which goes to facilitate in particular the construction sector, the reduction of IRES on the countervailable profits: all measures to put peace between tax and taxpayer, punctual measures, which in their specificity go to help small and very small entrepreneurs in practice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] But what is Italy made of, if not of small realities? So in the fragmentation of local realities, as in the peculiarity of the composition of the Italian business fabric, for more than 95 percent composed of small and micro enterprises. Sure, there's still so much to improve, so much to do. The publication of the growth decree, in line with the policies implemented so far, will therefore be forthcoming in the wake of the stimulus of domestic demand, which goes in the direction of facilitating the public and private sector even more. The decree unblocks yards, which goes in the direction of the simplification and revision of that code of the contracts accomplice of the block of the public investments in Italy. All measures that will see their effects, however, in the coming months. But in the meantime, today, after the serious decline of the productive activity due to exogenous factors, manifested in particular in the last part of 2018, the Italian industry has recorded a sharp recovery in the first two months of 2019. The index of industrial production has recorded a cyclical increase of 0.8%, confirming the positive signs of January with a 1.9% and the recent trend of Italian industrial production shows a greater liveliness than both that of the euro area (-0.2% in February, +1.9 in January), and that of Germany (-0.2 in February and -0.4 in January), although Senator Ferro says that these data are not fair, but I stick to those that were delivered in the hearings. After this DEF the NADEF will arrive in September, more supported by the first real results and then find us, at the end of the year, in the budget law, where you can really draw the sums of the first year of economic policy of this Government. To date, the issuance of a Document of economics and prudential finance is correct choice and indicates the seriousness of this Government and this majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u29	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u30	Mr President, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the Economic and Financial Document of 2018 I stated, in my first parliamentary experience, my displeasure, as an Italian, in taking note of the distance of the DEF from the real problems of the country. Today, that we discuss the DEF of 2019, not only do I feel a greater displeasure than then, but I feel I have to say that you are putting in place towards the Italians and towards our country a real institutionalized political bluff. This DEF, colleagues, is essentially useless for our country, because it lacks real content. It says little about health, there is no record on the reporting of the 100 share and the income of citizenship, useful to understand if the spending commitments are respected. There is no trace of the great works, of the TAV, necessary to make our country competitive and create employment. The only certainty contained in the DEF is the increase in VAT excise duties that can be triggered from 22% to 25.5%. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] To date, in 2019, we are obliged to acknowledge only the economic and financial failures and your measures, your commercials. The 100 quota is causing the flight of many employees from local authorities and also and especially from health care, already on the knees because under-staffed and in the DEF there is no increase of the Health Fund to unblock the turnover. The flat tax is addressed to a very small audience, because it is addressed only to those who invoice less than 65.000 euros. What do we say to all those who are not working today, to all those doctors, talking about health care? There are over 30,000 specialists, who have studied more than 25 years and who do not have a job: what do we say to them, that we do not unlock the turnover? Do you apply for citizenship income? Is that what the government is proposing? Moreover, the income of citizenship begins to expose its nature: the same citizens post on social media the begging of state, the 20, 30, 40 euros of income obtained after they were admitted to the benefit, that is they had the sad surprise to learn that the amount of the subsidy is of a few tens of euros. It is, in fact, a question of aid and not, as you have said and a road, a measure to reduce poverty: poverty does not come down with this income of citizenship! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, the country needs to address the issues of work, enterprise, the South, infrastructure, health and welfare, but in a serious and concrete way. You 5 Star Movimento colleagues, you have the most important skills in the Government: work, economic development, infrastructure, health and the South; let me say that you have made fun of us southerners, because you have created a Ministry that, besides not having the portfolio, has not produced any investment project in the South. And still today you come to reunite, as Council of Ministers, in Reggio Calabria, but to announce what? That you gave birth to the mouse from the mountain, while people die, why do you not have health care and will still not have it for the decree-health law that was proposed today in the Council of Ministers? Calabria has been a district for 12 years and will be for the next 10 years, according to the decree-law. Not to mention the absolute failure of national health policy. For the current year we are concerned that health expenditure is expected to be EUR 118 billion, an increase of only 2.5 billion compared to the previous year, when you have only foreseen one in the budget law: where to take the billion and a half you have added? For the following years, we are concerned about the downward revisions of GDP compared to what you predicted six months ago, when you predicted an increase of 3.1 percent in 2019 and instead you fell to over half, i.e. 1.2%; you predicted 3.5% in 2020 and you dropped to 2.6%; for 2021 you predicted 3.1 percent and you fell to 2.5%. We are still concerned about the fact that health expenditure remains below inflation. Even if your estimates are correct, health expenditure will not be able to cover price increases either because it grows less than nominal GDP or because the health sector price index is higher than the general consumer price index. In short, for the next few years in Italy we will not have guaranteed health care, according to the numbers presented in the DEF. We are concerned about the ratio of health expenditure to GDP indicated in the DEF, because it remains the same as in 2018, while even a very serious decrease is expected to bring it to 6.4 percent in 2022. In conclusion, allow me to say that the possibility of using the safeguard clause to safeguard the increase in VAT is even more serious: this means using part of the health expenditure, currently devoted to healthcare, to pay the increase in VAT and not the benefits that are already lacking, as the long waiting lists show. Your economic policy tells us that if you need to take care of yourself or have the money or die; that if you want to have a job or go abroad or get mortified by a few tens of euros; that if you have a business or you mortgage everything with the banks, hoping that the next DEF will provide a real flat tax, or sell your company to pay the debts. This is the Italy you have designed in your DEF: if you are not able to face the key problems of Italy in a serious and concrete way, leave the Government, let us free, let the Italians free. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Bellanova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u32	Mr President, vague, unreliable, useless is the DEF presented by the Government. It is a provocation and an offense, because it forces Parliament into a useless debate, emptying it of meaning and role; an act of extreme gravity that we denounce once again. We could have chosen to avoid this pantomime by remaining silent, but we have too much respect for this House and for parliamentary democracy. DEF useless but, for the voids it determines and the questions it opens, hugely dangerous, because it confirms, once again, the total inadequacy of this Government to face the fragility of the Country, having inherited (I say it in premise, because I no longer want to repeat it), all the conditions to act in another direction and today reason on many other indicators. On the risks they have expressed themselves with punctuality of analysis all of them have been audited in the Budget Commissions. Not only the social partners, but also the Parliamentary Bureau, the Court of Auditors, Bankitalia and the excellent report by our rapporteur, Senator Misiani. You can do all you want: this DEF is the certification of a failure and, above all, the total lack of thought and strategy on how to defend our country-system and its role in Europe and the world. The priority, how to build work and good employment, you put it under the carpet. It's the downside, it can't be silenced. Otherwise, the growth decree would not be impaled and, in this House, ministers like Di Maio and Lezzi would have known how to respond when we asked him what had happened to Industry 4.0, the tax credit for innovation and research, the complex crisis areas, the crisis tables, the measures for the Mezzogiorno that we put in place and you canceled. They didn't answer. You can't answer that. You have not wiped out poverty, as is evident, because of the weakness of implementation that is also recording your citizenship income: those who will have to support people in the search for a job will not arrive before the end of the year and on the site of the Inps advance the despair of those who understand that this income will not be what they hoped. You are destroying this country-system, disorienting and weakening those who produce (uncertainty regime, so observers have defined it) and knowingly alienating investors. You have abandoned the workers of the companies in crisis, because you force them to strikes and demonstrations under the Ministry to have attention (from the last the workers of Condotti and Tecnis). In any case, it is not extending the integration fund that solves the problems. You have dismantled industrial policies and strategy for the Mezzogiorno. You are, guiltyly and consciously, cutting off your legs at the second European and seventh European manufacture in the world. Or do you think some oranges in China are a credible piece, while France makes deals for three hundred Airbus? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You want a demonstration? Here it is: for months in Germany they have been discussing a strategic industrial plan that explicitly aims at creating major European champions in the strategic sectors of industry. The largest European manufacture, the one to which the northern regions are looking for enhanced autonomy, deceiving themselves that this is the solution, while it is clearly not, wonders how to respond to the crisis. He doesn't dance like yours, between Tria and Vice Premier, on VAT yes or VAT no. He doesn't invent mass distraction strategies, like the one on self-defense that you staged. [[Applause from the PD Group]] No: he wonders with a great public debate on how to support his own businesses, defend his own excellences, keep his young people, speak as equals with the world's giants. Think of the national interest, the one that you denounced and daily denied, as shown by the shameful goings on construction sites, public works, infrastructure, useless as you misanalyse cost-benefit analyses. While you, in order to lower the Mezzogiorno even further, abolish the 34 percent clause that we had indicated by law. Yes, in words you support it, in fact, extending it to Ferrovie and ANAS, which with our programs already traveled around 43% of resources for the southern territories, is tantamount to frustrating it. And it will not absolve you a Council of Ministers made in Reggio Calabria, empty of contents and proposals! [[Applause from the PD Group]] In front of all this you present us an empty and unreliable document. More deficits, more growth and less debt: thus Tria summarized the government's strategy, denying past commitments and underestimating the cost for the budget of the proposed measures. This DEF denies you on the whole line; it denies the beautiful year of that joker of the President of the Count Council; it denies the duo Salvini and Di Maio - the cat and the fox - that would guarantee more work, less taxes, less bureaucracy and happiness for everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is no job, unemployment is rising and taxes are rising. It denies the expected impact - only by you - from your flag measures on growth and consumption. Real estimates are far below the thresholds imagined and, as we explained, those consumptions will not support the productivity of our economic backbone, nor internationalization and export, of which you are irresponsibly disinteresting. Citizenship income is well below expectations. The young people who asked for it are less than 25,000, the large families are cut off and so the needy. Maio exults by saying that they will advance the money. What, if not shameful? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Share 100 will not lead to a turnover in such a critical economic environment. You know that, too, because you have suggested a minimum increase in jobs. You are just continuing to burn billions to deficit and further increasing public debt, by perfect cynic players and cheating. Dear Deputy Minister Garavaglia, listen to me, even if you do not like what I say, but it is your duty to listen to me. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You're killing the country and the future of boys and girls. That is why we say no to this document and challenge you to a real debate - what you did not want to do in the Commissions, in this House and everywhere - about what the country really needs and how it really defends its national interest. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u33	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this programme document we are continuing along the lines set out in the last budget law drawn up by Parliament and the Government. Although in an economic context in which global growth slows down, mainly for the reduction of global trade, our country has held. Positive signals come from Istat as far as industrial production is concerned. In the context of a healthy political dialectic, we Members of Parliament express a number of points of view. It's hard to tell who's wrong or who's right. Surely, as an exponent of the League of the majority, I am defending the line drawn by this Government. In view of the vastness of the subject matter of the Economic and Financial Document, I will focus only on a few aspects. I appreciate that, according to the majority agreement contained in the government contract, we intend to proceed with the next budget law with the process of income reform (flat tax) and simplification of the tax system, meeting the demands of the middle class. I have only one example of the many appreciations about what has already been done so far, received by people and small entrepreneurs who work with their heads down every day and who ask nothing more than to work and not to spend their time chasing bureaucracy. Marta, a restorer in Verona, already now, according to the current rules of flat tax for incomes under 65.000 euros, says that she is happy because the accountant already will have to go once a year and no longer has the business of quarterly VAT. Even if he can no longer deduct expenses, he has customers who, since they are no longer subject to VAT at 22%, are encouraged to spend a little more and turn to her. The only task will be to use a stamp mark of 2 euros exceeding 77 euros per invoice. Those who open a VAT number will, at first, be able to choose an INPS reduction from EUR 900 to EUR 600 quarterly, which will of course create their initial contribution gaps, but which will allow them to start with less needing liquidity. In your opinion, increasing even more the ceiling of 65,000, will encourage young people who, not finding work at companies, will be able to open a VAT number. Another important issue is that of empty cribs, i.e. the demographic decline. In the DEF, policies aimed at reversing adverse demographic trends and promoting women's participation in the labour market are to be pursued. Future initiatives will focus on reordering childbirth and parenthood benefits. Our political intent is to reverse this trend by meeting the needs of families according to the motto "First the Italians". Of course, maximum respect and commitment for immigrants well integrated and who respect the rules of our country, which has welcomed them. Certainly unlike before and others, we of the League will not try to compensate the demographic decrease opening the Italian ports and doors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As mayor of a municipality, I always hope that our communities in the future will swarm with children and children and see the classrooms with more pupils. It's mortifying for a mayor to see a few pupils in the classroom. And if they close the elementary schools of the small municipalities, even the municipalities lose sense. Significant will be that our country will return to being one of the main actors in the European chessboard, so it will be very important to see how the voters will express themselves next 26 May. Going back to the DEF, time and voters will say theirs. We are political and rightly and democratically Italians will judge us by vote. As with the mayors, those who manage well are reconfirmed to the leadership of their own municipality. I close my speech, wishing a good and holy Easter of Resurrection to the employees of the Senate of the Republic, to the employees of the various legislative groups, to the parliamentary colleagues, to the presidency of the Senate and to the members of the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u35	Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u36	Mr President, colleagues, members of the Government, the DEF 2019, the first drawn up by the Government in office, traces the results achieved during the first months of activity and outlines the guidelines for budgetary and reform policy for the next three years. Dear colleagues, excuse the irony, but if the results achieved are those before the eyes of all Italians, there is to be really worried. This government is creating the best premises to make Italy incubate the next international financial crisis: the Italian budget can blow up the world economy and is treated according to the typical methods of Latin American populism. This DEF is a Document where the contradictions of this majority, League and 5 Stars are shown plastically. In the updated Notes to the DEF 2018, presented in October, there was no justification for the growth projection for 2019 of 1.5%, then adjusted to one percent at the end of December, but that in the trend value is now 0.1%. Similarly, we are now moving to a planned GDP of 0.2% for 2019 and 0.8% for the next three years; and it is not clear, today as then, how a 0.6% increase can be achieved in one year between 2019 and 2020. It is not specified why, once 0.8% of growth has been achieved, this figure stops. The yellow-green government continues to resort to deficit expenditure, which is not justified by GDP growth, which is far below the average interest rates paid on our government bonds. In a nutshell, dear friends, this government buys consensus with the increase in public spending before the European elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is an extremely serious act, which makes our young people do nothing, a failure to do anything with state subsidies, mortifying meritocracy, commitment and sacrifice: a real shame. You can't campaign on the Italians all the time, and this isn't the first time I've told you: be a merchant's ear. Stop! Stop telling Italy as a country divided between a South that does not want to work and a North that works, but does not want to pay taxes: it is an idiocy, that feeds a social frustration between the two areas of the country. Not content, continue with endless promises a mix of electoral propaganda for our country. I repeat again: absolute zero on school; absolute zero on research; zero on innovation; zero for the development of the Mezzogiorno; the South, totally forgotten and absent in the famous contract; zero on birth; zero on female employment; zero for women with children; zero for tax redistribution for young people and so much public debt offered to the new generations. The Government - as stated in the report - intends to increase the international competitiveness of the country. But how do you make that statement when you've moved 118 billion from our country in the last 12 months? It was the money of Italian and foreign investors put on companies and Treasury bonds. What could we have done with that 118 billion? How many investments could we have made without increasing public debt? The chapter on public works and investment in infrastructure brings goose bumps. Locked the great infrastructures that connect Italy to the rest of Europe; damaged especially the southern regions - yes, the South, as always - those most depressed and therefore most in need of interventions. In the DEF there is talk of "Italy strategy," but it is absolutely evident that in the Government there are three strategies: one of Tria, one of Di Maio and one of Toninelli. Congratulations! The DEF of the minister Tria admits the failure of the economic policies welfare of League and Movimento 5 Stars; the second DEF, that of the ministers Di Maio and Salvini, disassembles that of Tria, that neutralizes the VAT: it is that in which the two Vice Premier do not reveal how they intend to realize the flat tax and above all with which financial covers; then, the third DEF, all to laugh, is that of Toninelli, that in the middle of a television interview pretends not to know the one approved by his Government. Which of the three versions do we have to believe? This obnoxious line is now intolerable. We are in a chilling scenario, which creates uncertainty on the markets and in Europe, which puts the wheels between companies, unable to make a minimum of programming. Dear President, I conclude by pointing out to everyone a very serious fact: the disappearance of as much as 2 billion euros from the Pact for Campania, denounced yesterday by the regional leader of Forza Italia Armando Cesaro. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister Di Maio has a duty to explain with absolute clarity the reasons for which he has taken 20 percent of the approximately 10 billion euros from economic policies for work development programmes, not least that of Fincantieri di Castellammare. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, friends of the Government, the fact that it is a minister from the South, from Naples, from Pomigliano, who cuts Campania's resources makes this affair even more serious, shameful and paradoxical. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in contextualising the key facts of the current macroeconomic scenario, the DEF outlines the guidelines for budgetary and reform policy that the Government intends to implement over the next three years. This is the first document that reports in an organic and systematic way the analytic description of the programmatic lines of the action of the current Government, to which is entrusted the not easy task of bringing our country back on a path of economic growth, in a framework of financial stability. Past inheritance certainly does not help to achieve the goal. The Italian economy, characterized by the low levels of growth recorded in recent years of the previous experience of Government, has revealed all its fragility showing itself unable, in an international and European economic context, which has become progressively more difficult, to withstand the repercussions of exogenous factors such as the slowdown of the global economy and the strong climate of uncertainty in international economic relations. The Italian economy recorded a real GDP growth of 0.9% in 2018 compared to 1.7% in 2017. In view of these trends, the forecast for average real GDP growth for 2019 is, according to the latest estimates, around 0.1%. As regards nominal GDP, the expected trend estimate for 2019 stands at 1.2% (0.2%, taking into account the maneuvers put in place). The less favourable growth prospects of the global economy and international trade are the main drivers of the reduction in growth estimates, especially for 2019. In this context, at first sight negative, the expansionary contribution that the measures launched by the Government during the first ten months of activity will be able to give to the country's economy is still missing. The Government has in fact implemented some of the important measures contained in the initial programme of economic and social reform, as described in the Update Note to the DEF 2018, approving the decree-law on citizenship income and revision of the pension system with 100 quota. Through the provision of benefits from citizenship income it will be possible to give a strong stimulus to the growth of consumption of primary goods. The measure provides economic aid to families in difficulty, which are distinguished by a high propensity to consume basic necessities. This will result in the introduction into the real economy of significant resources intended to fuel economic growth, thanks to a high income multiplier, given the low propensity to save the recipients of aid, not to mention the benefits linked to the activation of virtuous mechanisms, such as training paths and accompanying work integration. The Government has recently approved two important measures contained in as many decree-laws, which will make a significant contribution to the resumption of public and private investments and will streamline the procedures for the award of public tenders. I would like to pay particular attention to this passage: these are measures to which we have referred, but which have a content and impact of considerable importance. In particular, the growth decree will adopt measures that will favour the accumulation of capital and the realization of productive investments through measures such as the re-introduction of super amortization, re-modulated to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of the rates of direct taxes applied to the profits employed in the production process and the simplification of the procedures of enjoyment of some facilities. The second measure, the decree-law unblocks yards, cited in the DEF, aims to reinvigorate the resumption in the field of the constructions, slimming the legislation in force in matter of award of contracts. Integrated procurement, subcontracting, design rules, public-private partnership and approval procedures for project variants, increased resources for public investment and incentives for the renovation or reconstruction of buildings, including in an anti-seismic way, should create the conditions for a genuine recovery of a sector that remains crucial for employment and the general development of the economy. But there is another important hub of economic policy announced by the government with the DEF that I am heartened to find among the priority objectives of the agenda of this government of the 18th legislature, for the first time, after the succession of numerous legislatures. I'm talking about family welfare. For too long we have relegated to a completely marginal role the family and intended for it interventions of a welfare nature - such as the baby bonus, for example - with the use of preferential measures, among them disarticulated, that have produced not appreciable results because they lack a systemic approach. Italy is among the countries in the world with the lowest level of newborns and with a population among the oldest. The data contained in the 2018 annual report prepared by Istat confirm that less than 500,000 children are born every year in our country and that the fertility rate has reached the negative record, which oscillates on values of little more than 1.34 children per woman. A value well below the level of substitution of two children, necessary to maintain the demographic balance. The figure is of those who are of fundamental importance for the future development of the country. I try to simplify, because my time is running out. I want to say in essence that this maneuver indicates a reversal of trend. Having a child is a resource as it positively affects the GDP of 35,000 euros per year for each new birth. We are facing a demographic winter; we cannot close our eyes and pretend nothing; the government is showing its attention with concrete data. Similarly, it is not true that young people do not have the desire to have children or to start a family: there is a great desire that unfortunately is not reflected in reality. Therefore, economic support is not worthless aid; on the contrary, it is a fact-based value. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] There are many reasons why young people are afraid of the idea of procreation, and most of them are linked to the economic sphere and to the lack of services and effective policies to support the needs of families and mothers, not just workers. The fragmentation of existing support instruments must be overcome by defining effective and incisive structural policies to promote the birth and employment of women, while at the same time tidying up the system of social services and benefits, also with a view to establishing a new plan for the development of social and educational services for early childhood. Moreover, it is essential to promote a better balance between working life and family life through, for example, further interventions on the system of maternity and paternity leave, encouraging the flexibility of work in order to guarantee families the possibility of providing for the growth of their children in the first person; a factor - this - which the scientific community considers of extreme importance in order to ensure a serene growth for their children. I note that for the first time the Italian Government has drawn up a comprehensive, systematic and coherent project to deal seriously with the demographic winter that has been going on for several years, and I trust that these proposals will not be sacrificed on the altar of the balance of public finances. The future of our children is at stake. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u39	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u40	Mr President, I have to say that I am listening with increasing amazement to the speeches of some of my colleagues of majority - all of whom are reputable - but I have the feeling that the DEF did not read it, because otherwise I do not think they could make the statements they make. Bad politics has accustomed us to the distance that sometimes exists between propaganda and reality, but with this Government we do not talk about distance: we talk about abyss, about huge hyat. For months there have been words, chatter and propaganda; then, at a certain point, we have to write a document: to do so must be a serious and competent minister, because we must send it to Parliament, and we cannot write it down without understanding it, because, once presented, the Government itself is right about everything we have said in recent months. This is a huge backward step, due to the absolute consonance between the data we find in the DEF and what is supported by independent national and international institutes, and the truth is that the numbers at the basis of the budget law are resoundingly denied. I do not know whether to feel tenderness or anger for that balcony scene, in which the glorious exultation of Vice-President Di Maio in the face of the abolition of poverty was applauded by the claque of the majority colleagues, while to be abolished were only common sense and truth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I'm sure you're ashamed to see those scenes, but I'm sure you won't recognize it, even though in your heart you know I'm telling the truth. We see strange things: they are in the government and they think they are acting as if they were in opposition. When Minister Tria said yesterday that, in the absence of other measures, VAT would have to be increased, an opposition force would have been able to respond: "never" but when you are in government, you must never say "never," because instead we will do this or this." [[Applause from the PD Group.]] What are the alternative measures you put in place and the covers? You're in the government. Say it if you have a chance to do it. The comparison between your programmatic forecasts and the trend picture written in the DEF would be hilarious, if it were not dramatic: it's all different from what you expected. The truth is that after a few months of your interventions to the Government, you yourself write that GDP, the employment rate and the unemployment rate are getting worse, but that investment is going much worse (and I'll talk about it later): in September you predicted an increase of 1.5% of GDP, then of 1, hour of 0.1; a few months ago you predicted a beautiful year, but now that statement has been beaten. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Eh no, Mr. President Conte: you don't joke about the meat of the families of Italians (because this is what it is, other than joke). Citizen's income and 100's share should have led to magnificent fortunes and an increase in employment: now you write that the unemployment rate will rise by 1.2%, other than three jobs for each retirement; that was also a lie. We now come, in conclusion, to a matter which is more relevant to my Commission, namely investment in infrastructure. It is not necessary to be an economic scientist to know that, when it goes wrong, we must invest in infrastructure, large or small public works and classically anti-cyclical interventions, avoiding the closure of companies, the failure of large, small, subcontractors, induced and suppliers, as well as layoffs. In the face of all this, however, you are once again blocking the great works, such as the TAV and the third pass, and in the DEF you even write that there will be a drastic reduction in investments from 3.4 percent in 2018 to 1.6 percent in 2022. These are the numbers: halved investments, other than unlocking yards; these are hot cloths that lower transparency and legality, but do not restart the yards. In short, the best comment to this so-called Government of change is a phrase by Terenzio: Â Â fallacia aliam trudit Â Â (which more or less stands for Â a deception pulls the other Â Â). The Italians, however, will notice it and they are already realizing it, as they will tell you in an unequivocal way from here shortly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u41	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u42	Mr President, first of all, I would like to highlight a passage from Mr Ferro's minority report, in which we talk about the DEF in question about healthy realism, unlike the past ones. I inform my colleague Ferro and all the others that this, in fact, is the first DEF of the Lega-Cinquelle Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The DEF that we approved last year was drawn up by the previous Government and we gave a favourable opinion on it at the technical level, from which we could of course not avoid. Therefore, it is pleased that there is a recognition on the part of the opposition that this DEF is realistic and not inspired by invented numbers or propaganda, but reflects the reality of numbers. The numbers, which unfortunately are not favourable, but rather worrying. The DEF certainly denotes a serious approach on the part of the Government in dealing with this Document. It is a very particular document, which we must approve a few months after the adoption of the budget law. It is clear that, three months later, it is impossible to have an effective picture of economic developments this year and it is clear that the effects of the manoeuvre have not yet been recorded in the real economy. It is impossible, for example, that one of the fundamental choices of this Government, that is, the investment of strong resources in the public sector in favour of local authorities (I speak of the 400 million for small municipalities, of the 250 million for the Provinces and the release of the Stability Pact with the use of the administrative surplus of the Municipalities), has already found expression and complete realization in the three months that have passed since the approval of those measures. It is also obvious that the situation is difficult, because economic data at international level and in the eurozone in particular are worrying and negative. The context in which this Government faces the difficult start of economic recovery is certainly worse and much more serious than that of previous governments. But there are also positive signs. There is a debate on a given in relation to industrial production: one wonders whether the figure given in recent days, relating to an increase in industrial production in January and February, is realistic or not. I can take into account the objections of all Members of Parliament, as we can all do, but the document that ISTAT delivered to us at the hearing a few days ago, during the DEF debate, testifies to an increase in industrial production, which in February for example was 0.8%, in contrast to all other European countries, including Germany. This figure has been officially given to us and I do not think it can be contested in this House; it is a small positive signal, because this is a fact of the real economy and is not based on forecasts. It is a fact that obviously makes us hope and that shows, beyond the economic choices of this or that other Government, that there is still a very strong and avant-garde industrial fabric in our country; this is certainly a positive fact. What was then another choice of this Government? We have already said: to restart the economy through domestic demand. In the face of international export difficulties, the introduction of money in favour of the middle and low classes of the population has precisely this purpose. Compared to the safeguard clauses, I remember that these have never been defused into a DEF and that it has never been said with which cover they would be defused. Obviously, this Government has the commitment and the duty to find a way to defuse the safeguard clauses and the increase of VAT, and it will. In the same way, we have made the commitment - and was made by Minister Tria at the hearing - to find the 300 million for local public transport. It is a commitment that we have made and that we will keep. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] On flat tax a lot has been said; it is an objective of this Government. In the first budget law, a simplification and tax reduction was initiated for VAT consignments. In view of the economic situation, it could not be achieved in a single solution, but we will continue to move forward. It's a difficult road, but not impossible. As for immigration, someone said that there was no way to curb the landings and the business of cooperatives, because it was impossible; but we made it possible. Someone else, on the other hand, claimed that it was impossible to overcome the Fornero law; but we made it possible. Some people said they had no confidence in our ability to find resources for local authorities, but we found them. So the road is narrow, but this government has the confidence of the majority present in Parliament, the House and the Senate. But the most important thing is that it has the confidence of the country and the majority of citizens, which we confirm today as the Lega Group, knowing that the game of economic recovery is the most difficult, but we intend to win it to relaunch the economy and the well-being of our communities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u44	Mr President, my fellow Senators, by examining the content of the 2019 Economic and Financial Document, which is before this House today, I immediately thought that it would be an act of fairness to Parliament and the country if, after the presentation of this DEF, someone from the benches of the Government had the courage to stand up and admit that in October, when the update note to the DEF was presented and approved, they joked. Today's DEF denies, recants and denies everything that has been approved and that the government had only blacked out six months ago. Dear colleagues, today we note that we have a funny and funny government that likes to joke, as Prime Minister Conte himself said just a few hours ago, when he was poked by journalists on the famous phrase " 2019 will be a beautiful year." In fact, he claimed that he made a joke at the time and that he was obviously joking at the time. While at Palazzo Chigi there is someone who jokes and has fun, the future of the country is now mortgaged by a policy made of irreconcilable measures and measures that, at best, will lead to zero growth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Imagine you in the worst case of what will be the decrease produced by these measures. It is also useful to remember how the government has changed completely in six months and compare the photograph of NADEF six months ago with that of today, for the sake of reporting. Today we have a DEF that expects GDP to rise by 0.2% compared to the famous initial forecast of 1.5%. We all remember her. The deficit-GDP ratio today is 2.4 percent compared to the famous 2.04 of some time ago, while the debt-GDP ratio grows to 132.6 percent compared to 130% of NADEF. These incomprehensible numbers, translated into concrete situations, are meant to mean a certain and absolute thing: that in 2019 in our country only the debt will grow. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Dear citizens, it is written in black and white in the DEF and the opposition does not write it, but the Government. We'll have zero growth and rising deficits. I repeat: zero growth and rising deficits, now certified black on white in this DEF. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If today's deficit were set for an expansive maneuver, perhaps we could have been happy; instead it is a deficit centered on an absolutely depressive maneuver. The government today admits its defeat after a bath of reality; the government was unable to implement expansive maneuvers today because of internal divisions, to govern complexity and to have a common strategy. An index, which I particularly care about and which I would like to stress because we need to be very careful, is the lack of confidence that both families and businesses have about the future of the country. Uncertainty will weigh heavily especially on consumption and investment. Families and businesses today expect that in the near future, especially in the two-year period 2020-2021, there will be an increase in the tax burden from 42 percent to 42.7%. This will happen - you know very well because it is written in the DEF - as a result of the increase in VAT and the increase in excise duties on petrol, which someone had promised to remove within six months at the time of its installation. Let's remember that. This certainly does not involve either consumption or expenditure, but alternative measures, today, in the document of economy and finance, we do not read any of them at all. It is therefore a document that we can define as absolutely evanescent and scientific fantasy, because in the DEF there are no essential elements to understand what is the future of the country and to understand what are the programmatic objectives of the Government. There is therefore a random picture, in which the only certainties are the increase of the deficit and the growth of zero. The cost of this, ladies and gentlemen - let me say one last thing - will be mainly the South, because after six years of growth in the South and GDP today we have a certain figure, namely that GDP will have a decline and will fall by 0.2%. This puts the whole country in difficulty, because the gap between North and South will increase once more. Remember that the consumption of the South is mainly directed to the purchase of goods and services that come from the North and therefore this is a problem of the whole Country, but the Government does not want to address this problem absolutely. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Once the electoral bill of the income of citizenship in the South has been paid, whether for eighteen, twenty-four or thirty months, what remains for the South? There will be nothing left and, on the contrary, the regression is about to begin. The price of certain policies is unfortunately this and is paid by the citizens, in the short and long term. Therefore, our position is an absolutely alternative to the DEF installation in our examination, because we believe that investment in innovation and competitiveness, ideas and programmes aimed at increasing the level of employment of young people and women are needed. Instead, the DEF certifies the government's inadequacy to manage a delicate and complex phase and economic situation, such as the one the country is experiencing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u45	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u46	Mr President, the salient fact of the Economic and Financial Document that we are considering, in my view, has to do with the development envisaged for the main macroeconomic quantities, which perhaps have not been discussed enough. Let's take the unemployment rate: it is expected that in 2019 it will be higher than in 2018. Tax pressure: it is expected that in 2019 it will be higher than in 2018. The public debt: it is expected that in 2019 it will be higher than in 2018. The nominal deficit: it is expected that in 2019 it will be higher than in 2018. The structural deficit is expected to be higher in 2019 than in 2018. Then it comes to say that this, more than a DEF, that is, a document of economy and finance, is a DFE, that is, a document of economic failure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] (Following Mr Parrini) There is irresponsibility in the forces that govern us, because we are playing with the future of Italians. I do not know how else to define, if not an irresponsible game, the theater that went on stage and that I fear will continue to go on stage on the increase in VAT. We are talking about 23 billion euros, which could dump themselves on the families and businesses of our country. We are talking about an increase in taxes, which would be 382 euros per person. We are certainly not talking about something that can be classified as of secondary importance, but you have not been able to do anything other than jokes. To say that with you VAT will never increase is an absolutely meaningless sentence, if you do not say where you will find the money so as not to increase it. You have not said anything about the cover and we all know that the only cover you have in mind, in order not to increase VAT and not trigger the safeguard clauses, is the increase in the deficit. The increase in the deficit, which will not be granted to you this time, is not, however, a cover, but a new declaration of bankruptcy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Someone in the Commission has said that VAT will not be increased by cutting tax deductions, but that means not knowing what we are talking about. Do you think you can find 23 billion euros by cutting tax breaks? Then tell the Italians that you want to hit the deductions on the mortgages for the first home, the deductions for the expenses of education and the deductions for the sanitary expenses [[Applause from the PD Group]] , that you want to do a social massacre. Therefore, the government's agenda is to avoid a social massacre, such as the increase in VAT, by doing another. You understand that, in this way, you have become producers of uncertainty, mistrust and unreliability. There is something that proves that you are doing this more than any other, on which perhaps you have not argued enough. I would like to ask the representatives of the government, the representatives of the majority, the Minister who has just arrived in the Chamber and who is listening to this question: in the last year there is only one large European country in which interest rates on ten-year public bonds have increased and do you know what it is? It's Italy. In no other European country has public debt rates increased, not even in Greece, which has a public debt of 170 percent of GDP, in fact in that country interest rates in the last year have dropped by half a point. This is because almost no one trusts us anymore, because ours is the most unreliable government in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because our country is the worst managed country in Europe. The spread with Germany, which every day is in the attention of the news, has the trend we know, but it is not said of the spread with Spain, which has a public debt not very different from ours, which was 40 basis points a year ago and 150 basis points today, and of the spread with Portugal, which was zero a year ago and is 140 basis points today. This you have done to Italy and the Italians and in this DEF we do not notice any sign of repentance. Until four months ago, you had us discuss - a meaningless discussion - an estimate of growth for 2019 of one and a half points of GDP. Today you tell us that GDP will grow by 0.2, that is, you have completely denied the estimate you had made. Reforms would be needed, the national reform plan is an indispensable tool of the DEF, but this national reform plan is full of nothing, there is none of the great reforms that would serve this country to restart growth: nothing on public investment, nothing on the cost of labour, nothing for the sburocratization, nothing for the speeding up of justice, nothing at all. Don't do anything to fight the recession. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u48	Mr President, senators, government representatives, the 2019 Economy and Finance Document is the first of the new Government. This is an important step, which traces the results achieved over ten months of activity and outlines the guidelines for budgetary policy and reform that will be implemented over the next three years. We are therefore talking about a framework whose contents will then be defined in the autumn, when the finalisation of the next maneuver will come to life. The DEF provides for a deficit in the stability programme for the three-year period 2019-2021 of 2.4, 2.1 and 1.8% respectively in relation to GDP. In structural terms, i.e. net of cyclical developments and temporary measures, which is the true reference value taken into account in the framework of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact, structural deficits are forecast for the three-year period at 1.5, 1.4 and 1.1 respectively. For 2019, the structural deficit would therefore be increased by 0.1 percentage points compared to the previous year. Taking into account the flexibility agreed with the European Commission in relation to extraordinary expenditure on the fight against hydrogeological risks and extraordinary interventions on infrastructure, as well as the negative level of output gap, the Government considers that the 2019 programming framework ensures compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. For the following years, the stability programme traces a path of public finance that gradually reduces the structural deficit to 0.8% of GDP in 2022, in line with the gradual convergence towards the budgetary targets agreed at European level. As far as the debt ratio is concerned, it increased to 132.2% in 2018 and is expected to increase to 132.6 percent in 2019. The DEF then expects a reduction from 2020, to 131.3% and 130.2 in 2021, to be just below 129% in 2022. The policy objectives set out in the DEF are therefore in line with the dictates of the Stability Pact, although they provide for smaller improvements compared to those resulting from a literal interpretation of the rules of the Pact, as imposed by the still difficult conditions in which the Italian economy is located and the recent cyclical weakening. The reduced economic growth, in fact, should not be charged to the Government, but to a worsening of the global economic framework, due in particular to the protectionist conflict triggered by the policy of the United States, the economic slowdown of China, the instability caused by Brexit and the fall of German industrial production, to which the Italian manufacturing is closely linked. Moreover, in Italy, in contrast to other European countries, in recent months an increase in industrial production has been recorded which is demonstrating the solidity of our manufacturing sector. In detail, the data on Italian industrial production in January and February 2019 are positive, with an increase of 1.9 percent and 0.8 percent respectively compared to December 2018 and January 2019. Turning to the National Reform Programme, the Government shows particular attention to social inclusion, to combating poverty, to starting the work of the inactive population and to improving education and training, with measures in favour of family welfare, birth and parenthood. It is also expected to assess the introduction of a minimum hourly wage, a measure already present in 22 countries out of 28 of the European Union. In addition, work will continue to reduce the tax wedge on labour and red tape, including through digitisation. In line with the Government contract, it is also intended to continue the process of reforming income taxes, the so-called flat tax, and of general simplification of the tax system, alleviating the taxation of the middle classes. This, in compliance with the public finance objectives defined in the DEF. The Government envisages a revival of Italy's industrial policy, with the aim not only of revitalizing sectors that have been in crisis for some time, but also of making Italy the protagonist in industries that are at the centre of the transition towards a sustainable development model. The transition to higher ecological standards represents a real opportunity for growth for Italy, which must be pursued through the encouragement of research, design and production of means of transport with low environmental impact in our country. In addition to investment in physical infrastructure, a large effort is also envisaged in the fields of technological innovation and research, broadband deployment, the development of the 5G network and the national strategy for artificial intelligence. (Followed by Mr Gaudiano) The Government will strengthen support for experimentation and adoption of digital transformations and enabling technologies that offer solutions for more sustainable and circular productions. Administrative simplifications will be part of a more general measure of acceleration of growth, which the Government intends to launch in the coming months and which will proceed to the reconnaissance, typing and reduction of the enabling regimes, identifying the procedures of authorization not indispensable and eliminating all unnecessary administrative burdens. The efficiency of justice is a decisive factor for economic recovery and for restoring citizens' confidence in legality. In this context, action has been taken to speed up civil and criminal judicial proceedings, such as the comprehensive reform of insolvency proceedings, and the important resources allocated to address the staff shortages of administrative staff and the judiciary. Moreover, Italy has been characterized for years by the decline of births and the low participation of women in the labour market. The Government intends to continue on the path of lightening the tax burden and the allocation of more resources for families, with particular regard to the large ones and with members in condition of disability. Future initiatives will focus primarily on reordering child support, parenting, promoting family welfare, improving the health system and its infrastructure. Finally, among the main policy objectives of government action, there is also support for school, university and research education, through measures to finance development with particular attention to human and infrastructural capital. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u49	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u50	Mr President, Minister, Vice-Minister, let us take seriously your proposals: the Tria DEF, prudential, but perhaps only realistic, rather than prudential; the DEF, instead, imaginative, contained in the resolution of the two Vice-Premiers. Then, we also make a proposal. Because we have ideas and we also have them quite clear. The data have been given to you over and over again. What screams a lot is that this 0.2% of programmatic growth for 2019 (where programmatic growth means the growth you hope to have) makes you smile a lot, since four months ago you laughed at national and international predictions that predicted growth of 0.6 percent. From this point of view, we must all admit that the situation is very critical. Obviously all this, having made an expansive manoeuvre of the deficit but not of growth, affects the deficit, affects the deficit-GDP ratio, affects the debt-GDP ratio. It affects us so much that we get out of all the European parameters of the two pack and six pack; so much so that, if we were really in a situation of difficulty, we would be in a position to manage ourselves, politically isolated and alone, without instruments of support from the European Union. All this cannot satisfy you. We in the Finance and Treasure Committee were apostrophated as catastrophists this morning. We're just being realistic and worried about our country. We'd love you to be, too. Instead, you're not. You are not, because we have heard that this collapse of macroeconomic data is due to the international framework. Of course, the international framework slows down, the eurozone slows down, but we hurt ourselves. We have taken appropriate measures to prevent and counter what was going on. We have made a policy of declarations of incompatibility with the other countries of Europe, with the European Commission, which has led us to have a stable 250-point spread. And we pay for it. These are resources less than you could have spent on the policies you want to achieve. But this is not enough. We blame others, without taking responsibility for the mistakes that have been made and that are obvious. But you want to do it again because the majority resolution, which is somewhat inconsistent, contains others. It wants to instill this optimism in the country but, in reality, for those who can read it, it really gives a significant degree of concern. With regard to VAT, it is said to be quiet because it is only 23 billion (i.e. about two thirds of a maneuver). The resources have always been found, they will be found again this time. Yeah, but we want to know where, how, from where. In the Finance and Treasure Committee this morning, we have been told, ironically, with a bar joke, that out of 800 billion public spending, 23 billion are easily found. Good! But if it had been that easy, I guess others would have found them before. In any case we want to know: where? We really want to know. Let me now turn to the theme of flat tax. Apart from the fact that the one made so far is not a flat tax, but the extension of the flat rates wanted by the Renzi government - that is clear - what do you want to do here too? In the Document it is written that you realize the transaction to zero balance, which means to cut deductions, deductions and the bonus of 80 euros. Is that what you want? Do you want to make lower incomes even more fragile? If that's optimism, we'll leave it to you. I would like to give you a piece of advice, which so far no one has given you, coming from the World Economic Forum. The World Economic Forum places Italy at 82nd place on one hundred and forty-six with regard to the workforce, the power of power and the talent of women. France and Germany and the three drivers of Europe are placed in the first, second, third, twelfth and fourteenth places. This is worth 7% of GDP. We absolutely need growth and shock. Women are the shock, the precious resource that you have at your disposal in the country. Use it! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u51	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u52	Mr President, I have heard many colleagues in the majority say that a realistic DEF has been presented and, therefore, a sense of responsibility has been demonstrated. In fact, you have presented a DEF that is the picture of the situation and macroeconomic data, but it tells us that Italy is in substantial economic stagnation. Mr Tria, the small detail is that - today we are on 18 April, Holy Thursday - at the end of December last we voted on the budget law and already then the international framework of worsening of all the data began to be quite clear. Nevertheless, you have continued to insist, indeed to present us with an all-expanding situation (I do not want here to add jokes about the beautiful year). Last September - you, Minister, will remember - you predicted GDP growth of 1.5%, in December of 1% and - then - in January we dropped to 0.6 percent. Today the figure is set at 0.1 and, within the policy framework, 0.2. We said that this DEF is the photograph of the current situation. However, what honestly surprises us is that, with respect to the data you have declared and voted in the budget law, there is not a minimum sense of responsibility towards the country, the senators and the entire Assembly. I'm not talking about self-criticism, which may seem like a strange word, but at least a rethink of the approach of the maneuver 2019-2021, which you had presented as expansive, but entirely focused on measures some of which are useful, for goodness sake (as we have told you many times and you know what we thought of 100 quota and citizenship income), but absolutely ephemeral and unable to get back into motion the country that is pouring into a situation that was already presenting itself difficult. Also on the occasion of the review of the Update Note - Minister Tria, I invite you to go and see all the resolutions that the Free and Equal Group had tabled - we asked you to face a confrontation with the European Commission in order to obtain space, certainly also in deficit, but for investments and to start - for example - the ecological transition of our country. This morning in the Senate there was Greta Thunberg. From the perspective not only of the contents of the DEF, but - alas - also of our discussion, the issues of how to deal with the fight against climate change and the preparation of measures for the ecological transition have completely disappeared. But that's all we're talking about. Perhaps it is one of the most important issues for our country and for the whole international economy that can really represent the axis for a recovery of Italy. So, as I was saying, no self-criticism. And what is outlined in this DEF now? The increase in VAT in the DEF is there and so it is written. Then the majority resolution says to do something else, waiting to find alternative cover measures - so I read - and tax reform. But, even in the vagueness, you continue - wandering is human, persevering is diabolical - to insist, even in the climate of contrast of this long electoral campaign, and you are preparing once again to repeat the mistakes of the manoeuvre adopted last year. What do you mean? Current expenses, flat tax, further lowering of the IRES rate, very few investments, linear spending cuts, because you said that you did not need an additional maneuver, but the 2 billion that you had already foreseen as a safeguard clause that was to come into force will be applied. These two vaguely sketched lines of intervention are absolutely problematic, Mr Vice-Minister, because they once again design a tax policy which we consider unfair. You insist on flat tax and it might even happen that you increase VAT and with those resources you make flat tax. But we will see the scenario, because it is still everything to be defined. Once again, I repeat, you insist on an unfair fiscal policy, because you vaguely promise the sterilization of planned VAT increases. All this is accompanied by a myriad of reductions in tax and social security burdens, not on employees but on self-employed workers. The resulting picture is once again clearly electoral and risks creating a number of effects at the threshold and also a number of small and various flat taxes that are likely to increase the amount of avoidance. All of this is also due to the reduction in tax revenue which these measures, if adopted, would imply. Then let's talk about procurement policy. The answer is very dangerous, because in the unblocking-cantieri decree we assume responsibility for a decision at very high risk as regards also the legality and transparency of the contracts. But what surprises us most is that, within a framework such as the realistic one you have photographed, in a framework of risk of worsening at an international level, we absolutely do not see - and there was an absolute need for this - a strategic orientation, an axis on which to work, an ability to choose, without being too conditioned by the need for consensus in the short term. I mentioned the issue of climate change first. We continue to say that the fundamental axis is to start the energy transition with strength and determination. Looking for resources? But when do you cut the 15-16 billion environmentally harmful subsidies? It is 16 billion that you can recover and invest in a green new deal. We must insist on the energy transition, on the freeing of dependence on fossils. Look for many resources, but these continue to confirm them and you absolutely do not see a renewed ability to make a plan. In words of small and large works there is a lot of discussion, but in fact the investment situation is in danger of getting worse on that front. We cannot give up, because we take seriously the fact that we no longer have time, we can no longer wait. What is happening, climate change, also requires in our country a link between social justice and environmental justice that would do very well to the economy of this country. It would be good because investing would be a big breath of oxygen for the economy. President Alberti Casellati remembered him today and did well. A great effort, for a country like ours, that falls to pieces, as well as hydrogeological risk, putting in security of the territory, ecological transition, transport plan, sustainable mobility: these are the things that we would have liked to read, with the indication of the resources. Instead, once again, you just make a living. I do not know if you hope that, perhaps past the European elections, something will happen; but nothing happens, if a different strategy is not put in place, with ideas of responsibility for the resumption of the country's path. The road is the one drawn: to combat climate change. Saving human life on the planet means having the chance to save our economy as well. We wouldn't want to be together, maybe in two or three months, with the data getting worse. The citizens, then, after the election campaign, will not forgive you very easily. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are analysing today should be a well-known economic planning document, but it is precisely this aspect which, in our view, is lacking, namely programming, a productive economic policy. We must reluctantly define the DEF not as a dream book - maybe! ‐ but as an electoral manifesto, with a series of statements, intentions, some also beautiful and agreeable, but without coverage, without precise indications of resources. Let's start with the ghost of VAT, the yellow of VAT, on which the government must say exactly what it wants to do. In fact, the Minister Tria - which the DEF has written, knows what he is talking about and has certainly read it too - said that it will serve an increase in VAT, because in the Document of Economics and Finance it is written that the safeguard clauses cannot be defused because there are no resources. It has been denied by other voices of your own Government, who have said, strongly and convincingly, that the increase in VAT will not be there. It should then be said where and how resources will be found, how the increase in VAT will stop. I must add that the majority resolution, with the Government's commitments, does not resolve the yellow of VAT; in fact, it commits the Government, in letter b), to adopt measures for the cancellation of the tax safeguard clauses of 2020. How to say: common sense and common sense, a little fried air, because it doesn't contain an indication. But let's move on. In our view, the government should state its economic policy and should do so clearly before the European elections on 26 May, otherwise the point from which I started returns, namely that the DEF ends up being an electoral manifesto. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this document is the result of welfare measures that intentionally affect competitiveness and consumption. The fear, indeed the risk, is to see a real stalemate coming down on the enterprises and the consumptions in the next autumn. The certainty is that the country is unfortunately in recession, that Italy stagnates. The DEF essentially certifies stagnation. The Government, in no line of this Document, mentions a budgetary vision; I don't mean romantically heroic and courageous (maybe), but I would judge it far too minimalist in concrete, with a growth of 0.1 percent of the gross domestic product, bringing the forecasts of 2019, if everything is confirmed, to a sad 0.2 percent, I dare say, with little elegance, with good peace of the decree growth and the newly boiled decree unblocking-cantiers. Brothers of Italy cares about this debate because it has its own economic recipe. Yesterday our leader, Giorgia Meloni, in a meeting organized by my colleague Urso on enterprise and work has reaffirmed before the productive categories our pact for development. We have a recipe, partly contained in the resolution that we have presented, partly in the electoral programme of the Europeans and which has always been contained in our political DNA, that here we summarize a little by slogan, even if we have detailed it where we could: a fiscal shock, public investment, less taxes, more infrastructure, more protection of the made in Italy, a total reform of the tax system by introducing a real flat tax at 15% for families and companies on incremental income compared to the previous tax period. Again, in our recipe we propose to devote 3% of GDP to public investment and infrastructure: in short, with a joke, as my colleague Calandrini said, "more TAV and less TAX" to promote development, modernise the country and make it competitive. We also propose that 50% of the share of GDP devoted to public investment and infrastructure be used in the southern regions to reduce the existing gap. A sad reality, compared to which we all have to confront, is that in Italy the consumption of households does not grow since the second quarter of 2018 and the trend is confirmed in the first quarter of the current year; these consumptions, among other things, will not grow with this DEF. It is true - and we know this - that these considerations must be contextualized with an international cycle which is economically critical, but in Italy the pressure is more accentuated and the situation is more serious than in other European countries. Compared to this negative trend - for which it is clear that we do not insult, but it is an act - the government's economic policies have favoured welfare and propaganda measures. How can we not mention the income of citizenship that does not solve poverty and does not produce work? And, again, the lack of public investment, the increase in taxation, the unfortunate decline for families, companies and the production system, with a picture of Italian economic weakness that clearly and negatively affects the maintenance of the social system, social cohesion. We do not say that, but the OECD tells us, which reminds us that Italy is in danger of closing the year in full recession with the fall of the aforementioned 0.2% in 2019, the only European economy with such a negative result. Unfortunately, the OECD also stresses the fact that Italy has the lowest GDP growth compared to the European average. In conclusion, there are internationally renowned economists who on OECD sources, on these findings are even wondering - and I stress this - if the spark of the global recession will come from Italy or if Italy, in short, will trigger the next global crisis. Important questions, huge ones, of responsibility. I don't know if that's gonna happen. I hope not. We hope that this is not the case, because we are first of all patriots; we love Italy, we love this country and we want to see its happy growth. However, I must say that what we see today is not a great economic design, an economic planning document. What we see today is a small economic cabotage. I am sorry, but this is not the route of a navigation that is used to face a higher danger such as that which, unfortunately, stands before Italy, in front of all of us. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister, the bath of humility, the government's return to the ground - which this DEF had allowed to be glimpsed because of more cautious content - lasted very little. Too little. Just a couple of days and then we found ourselves overwhelmed by a whirlwind of bold statements and interpretations, of updated versions of the shameful microphone turned off to you, Minister Tria: last time was Nadef, today the DEF. All to cover - paper sings - what has already been put black on white. Vice-Minister Castelli, again in the Commission this morning, told us that it is a DEF written in this way, only to escape an infringement procedure of Europe; as if he wanted to admit that he could not tell the truth to the full. I shall confine myself, then, to two reflections. The first concerns the non-coherence of macroeconomic frameworks with public finance frameworks. The DEF shows a GDP growth rate for 2019 of 0.1 per cent, rising - if you can say so - to 0.8% in the coming years and to 2022. As a result, the unemployment rate would also rise to 11.1 in 2020, and only in 2022, perhaps, would it return to the levels of early 2018: you write it. How do you intend to view this umpteenth cutting off of the decree of dignity? All the more so because, for the umpteenth time, it is you of the Government who write it and recognize it. Not us, but you. Faced with this, the public deficit should be raised this year to 2.4 percent of GDP, to fall to 1.5 only in 2022. In essence, cancel the improvement agreed with the European Commission to return to the famous deficit osanto from the famous balcony. But, let's move on. Government debt relative to GDP rose to 132.6 percent in 2019 and then fell - in the next four years - by one 0.8 per year. Numbers describing a macroeconomic framework that is completely inconsistent with that of public finance. Of the two: if VAT increases, as it is written in the DEF and as provided for in the safeguard clauses, as confirmed by you, Minister Tria, at the hearing - despite the counter-heavy of immediately activated declarations - the growth of 2020 will go below zero (i.e. between minus 1 and minus 2 percent). If, however, VAT does not increase in 2020 - and to date, as you have made clear, Minister, there are no alternative measures - we can consider a growth of 0.8% plausible, but, at the same time, the public deficit would rise to 3.5% and public debt to 135% of GDP. You realize we can't handle this, can we, Minister? Do you understand that this is an unsustainable picture for our country? The second part of my reflection concerns the effects of the economic policies expressed directly by the Government. From the comparison between trends, which are in line with your first budget law, and those that are programmatic, that is those that derive from the effects that you, Government, expect from your economic policies, are equal to a boost to growth of 0.1% for this year and 0.2 in 2020. In the next two years the total impulse is even null, as you write. The Cinquestellas have always been supporters of the worrying, but well-known, happy decrease. But I ask you of the League, once an expression of the industrious North, how do you support a document that certifies the deliberate choice of economic inertia. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It doesn't surprise anymore, it's true, because you get to do even worse. This tiny and ephemeral impact on growth, which aims to inflate for a while the sails of consensus, will actually deflate the pockets of the Italians, because it costs the worsening of the deficit and public debt conditions: the first has been almost doubled by your budget law and, consequently, the debt will increase by another 150 billion euros from here to 2022: I say 150 billions. Faced with the advance of a real economic desert, the only alibi that remains is the choice to have presented a DEF with an unchanged policy framework, leaving the policy aspect to the measures to be included in the next budget law, now indicated in the DEF only with generic titles and without any quantification. Here too, however, if good morning is seen from the morning, we know what is waiting for us: in fact, we have been seeing decrees fired for months, except for agreements. Returning to your rivers of words, however, there are data indicating the sharp worsening of growth and employment, the serious danger of public finances and a prospect that in September will require a maneuver of many tens of billions of euros. I wonder, then, if it was worth doing all this, putting public finance at serious risk, in order to have an effect on growth of 0.1 or 0.2 per cent, in order to have an increase in unemployment that perhaps will return to the level of 2018 only four years ago. We know that we are experiencing a period of slowdown in the world and European economy, but this cannot be a justification, because these analyses refer exclusively to the internal framework and reflect your choices in economic policy. Allow me here, to conclude, a brief hint to the South. The slowdown and the deep uncertainty of the dynamics of the national economy become a major brake on the Mezzogiorno. These are not my words, but the representatives of the Svimez in the hearing: this is a real alarm. After a four-year period of substantial alignment of the economic dynamics between North and South, the Mezzogiorno faces a worsening of the forecast scenario, with a marked divergence from the Centre-North. Your flat tax, moreover, is paradigmatic, because it would have a highly asymmetrical territorial relapse, to the detriment of the South, the area with the lowest incomes. The same effect would have the increase in VAT: the choice to leave the Mezzogiorno without development policies, therefore, is yet another confirmation of the usefulness of your Ministry for the South, without portfolio or - much worse - a rag of planning for a nice piece of Italy. It was and remains pure electoral propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u57	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u58	Minister, although I criticized you in part yesterday in the Commission, today I would like to welcome you with applause, because we have finally entered the neorealism of yellow-green. With this DEF she takes a raw picture of the current reality, without masking it with demagogy and propaganda and telling the whole country that we are in full economic stagnation. The most serious thing, Minister, is that you finally not only say urbi et orbi that the next three years will be devastating or very critical for the Italian economy, but you even tell us that you have to increase VAT and excise duties. I want to say to you, then, with extreme intellectual honesty, Minister, that it is not a problem, because the governments that succeeded themselves before this have included in their DEF the possibility of an increase in VAT. Does the problem know what it is? It's just that up to now no one within your government (I'm not just referring to you) is explaining how these possibilities are to be sterilized. You see, this raises the suspicion that unfortunately it turns into a certainty the possibility of an increase in VAT and excise duties. So far none of you have explained how to avoid it; Tell us that you will avoid it, tell us that we will have to pass on your body, but no one tells us how you will do it. And she finally tells us the truth today. I'll tell you something else. Some of the measures contained within the DEF and that have told your first year of government were also acceptable or, at least, our approach has not been preliminary. I'm thinking about citizenship income. We told you from the start that if you want to help those who are behind, that's not the tool; and today we can see the questions going on the INPS website. I am making a post for Deputy Minister Garavaglia, who is a serious person: close the site "INPS" for the family, because today it has become ridiculous. In all the newspapers we are wondering who are those gentlemen who respond in an almost arlequinous way to those who ask questions and feel out of the income of citizenship. It's called "INPS" for the family, go see Mr. Deputy Minister; it's almost comedy, tragicomic, if it's not true. That citizenship income - as we said from the outset and have said so - will not create any employment (at last you are also seeing it) and will not affect the economy, let alone consumption, if not in a very small percentage. You see, Minister, there's nothing to do. I address you, who is an economist and an academic. The rules for relaunching the economy are the usual: more investment, less snares, more streamlined bureaucracy. Until now - let me tell you - there is nothing; there is simply confirmation of a statist vision of the Italian economy. And this, as you can see, is not creating GDP, but is even putting it in a dramatic situation. I told you yesterday in the Commission and I repeat it today in the Chamber: we are not Cassandre, but we believe that, unfortunately for the country (because instability does not help), this will be the last DEF of this Government. And this - I say this very sincerely - not because of what happened this morning, that is, because of the story that unfortunately hits a Undersecretary of the Republic. I address above all my friends of the League. You see, as much as the relationship between the League and the centrists in recent times has been characterized by a dialectic accent, in none of us has ever arisen the idea of filing and not remaining faithful to those principles of guarantee provided by our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are guaranteed with our allies and with our opponents. It is you, dear friends of the League, who must ask a question: is it normal to remain in government with whom since this morning, with a stillicide of declarations, not only tends to denigrate you, but also to delegitimize you? I say this with great frankness to the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars: here it is not a question of being more or less guaranteed, here it is a question of being homogeneous in the evaluations. When there is some exponent of the 5 Stars involved, double standards are adopted; the story of the mayor Rays today teaches us this. I'm going to conclude, because in six minutes it's hard to make a complete argument. But be careful, Minister: the medium-term objective this year is set at a + 0.5% more than the budget balance, while last year it was - 0.5%; that means we have 1% more GDP. This, without going into detail, means that the costs of ageing in this country are increasing: the more it costs the ageing and the management of ageing and the less resources there are for families and young people. Mr Minister, allow me then to conclude with applause in this case too, because you are finally telling the Italians that we have two or three very difficult years ahead. To put it one way, let's not talk about DEF anymore, but let's talk about "PAF." You know? "Bread, love and fantasy" is the comedy of Vittorio De Sica. Unfortunately, the Italians before them will need so much imagination to be able to counter your evil economic policies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u59	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u60	Mr President, I speak as a member of the Finance Committee rather than as a Parent Company, since then the explanation of vote will be given by President Bagnai for our Group. I have seen almost all the speeches in the afternoon debate and I have to say that it was a bit like being in front of an electoral forum. There are elections and so it is clear that propaganda must be made; I say this in order to highlight the distance between what is reality and what is propaganda. On the other hand, if we want to make a more correct and serious analysis of what has happened and is happening, we must start with the statements made by Minister Tria, who said at the hearing that, in order for Italy to reduce the gap of growth with European partners, a change in the model of European growth is also necessary to promote domestic demand without affecting competitiveness. Let us not forget that many of the causes of the wrong forecasts and the slowdown in the economy come from that very Europe that we want to change. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Let us not forget this. It is true that we have a narrow growth of 0.2 per cent of GDP, but Germany, from which we have always had to depend from an economic point of view, revised yesterday's estimates in a shy 0.5 per cent. So, if Germany had forecast 2.1, then it had to go down to 1.2 and then 0.5, it is clear that our 1.5 and 0.2 - given the proper proportions - make it clear that the problem of lack of growth concerns the whole of the eurozone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The eurozone did not understand at all that the stagnation and crisis of world trade were dictated by US tariff policies, by Brexit - since we voted on the decree yesterday - which was not fully understood and by all the consequences that resulted because it certainly created uncertainty in the markets, by the increase in oil prices and by China's slowdown. These are the factors that are affecting the world economy and certainly not the yellow-green government. That is absolutely clear. Perhaps we should look at things with a more objective eye, beyond competition and political confrontation. You can't always use these tones, these apocalyptic scenarios and these catastrophic predictions of our economy because, in the end, if we go to see the data, it's not exactly as bad as it was painted. Do you remember the many interventions of minorities on the issue of public debt, for example? We were afraid of the increase in the spread and wondered how many interests we would pay, fearing that they would fall on our children. Yesterday, however, a certified news came: hear, hear, the cost of public debt is falling. The certification made it Bankitalia because, despite the spread, the new issues are at lower rates than the bonds in maturity. In short, the famous expenditure on interest on public debt has dropped by 1.7 billion euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] There has been talk of the collapse of the country, of the government's bankrupt policies and of the government's adrift public accounts, but then we go to see and, as my colleague Mr Tosato has pointed out, the data of industrial production not only say that there is an increase of 0.8% compared to the previous month, but there is also an increase of 0.9% compared to last year, when the government was there you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mr Laus (PD). It's a beautiful year! FARAONE (PD). Tell us about the Rays! [[Senator Pucciarelli's comments.]] . Please, I've listened to all of you. Shall we talk about the bag? The bag matters, too. Mr Lannotti, who said that, since the beginning of 2019, the Italian stock exchange has had the best results of the European Union: in six months it has done +13 percent against +8 percent in Paris and +6 percent in London. Mr Parrini (PD). Unemployment increases! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are not using triumphalistic tones; I am just saying that there are no apocalyptic scenarios that you have often and willingly evoked. Mr Laus (PD). It's a beautiful year! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). No one has been interrupted in the debate this afternoon and, therefore, I would like... FARAONE (PD). It seems like the first time. [[Senator Pucciarelli's comments.]] Senator Pharaoh, be good. I would like to point out that taxation has also been said on more than one occasion and participating in the TV debates that we have increased taxes. Then let's see that the DEF says - but colleagues have been very careful to point out that line - that the tax burden in 2019 will drop slightly, from 42.1 percent, to 42 percent, to show that we have lowered taxes, because 2019 is the year of our maneuver. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is clear that then it rises to 42.7% in 2020, but this happens if we do not sterilize the safeguard clauses. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] But thank you, this was also written in the DEF of the previous year! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This means that you only read the data as they may suit you. So VAT will not increase. They took it out on you, Minister Tria, who, however, rightly said what is written in the DEF, which is the photograph of the current picture. It is the resolution, which has a majority and which we will vote on later, which commits the Government to sterilize the safeguard clauses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Will you not tell us that we will not find EUR 23 billion on a budget of about EUR 800 billion? Please, let's not joke! [[Comments by Senators Stefano and Bellanova.]] Will we, at a time when there is a crisis in domestic demand, increase VAT? We will not increase VAT, but what is certain, since we are talking about VAT, is that if there has been a government that has increased it, it is the Letta Government in 2013. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups and Mr Garavaglia.]] I remember that in that Government there were also some Technical Undersecretary of Forza Italia, just because you have to be honest to the end. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] In the same way, there will be no assets and no corrective manoeuvres: there will be none of this. On the contrary, I continue to say - it was well done by Minister Tria to remember this - that the fact of saying that everything is bad, that there will be the asset, that VAT will increase is creating major problems for the country, beyond the dialectic between majority and minority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In fact, with these uncertainties and with this news it happens that consumers do not spend and businesses do not invest [[Comments from the PD Group]] , frightened by the lies you keep telling [[Senator Ferrari's comments.]] In this way we certainly do not help our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I also remember, always on the subject of taxation, that the ISTAT - so we also give this other good news on the topic of enterprises - has certified that between the measures contained in the decree-law on growth, which will be published in the next few days and whose conversion we will go to vote between the end of May and the beginning of June, there will be a reduction of taxation to enterprises of 2.2%. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] So we also give positive messages, because otherwise it seems that you want to look at the wreckage. I start to conclude, since the light of my microphone is flashing, despite the many interruptions I have suffered. There was talk of real or fake flat tax, but no one ever thought that flat tax could be done all at once and we said so. It was known that we should do it in more stages. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u61	Colleagues, don't interrupt! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Are you democratic? Why don't you let the others talk?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u62	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The flat tax, I repeat, must be done in several stages. It was well remembered that we started with holders of VAT matches, craftsmen and professionals. Now we continue, not for the rich, but for the middle class, up to 50,000 euros of family income. This is the initial approach and we certainly do not support the rich, but we try to help families, to simplify the tax system. You ask us where we're going to get the money. BELLANOVA (PD). Minister, it's so simple! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Today we have an expense of about 76 billion euros, with 413 measures, between discounts and tax bonuses, which need to be simplified, also and especially for a reason. Why give these discounts and these bonuses - I read and said well Deputy Minister Garavaglia - also costs a lot of money to the state. Perhaps it is better then to reduce taxes, recover resources and finally help our families, which is what we all want. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] STEFANO (PD). The excise duty on petrol! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then no one will perform miracles, but certainly there is no lack of commitment, determination and above all curiosity - and here I really conclude - because in front of all these negative estimates that have always been evoked we always replied that we had to wait to see the first data of the quarter and from there we would start to make evaluations. We are aware that with the maneuver we have made and with the measures we have included we will surprise you in the coming quarters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). It's gonna be a beautiful year! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting to us a document on economics and finance for 2019 which is prudential, given the cyclical moment of global economic slowdown and the lower dynamism of international trade. Growth has been revised downwards by the major world economies and, for example, Germany is moving from a forecast of growth of 1.9 percent to one of 0.5 percent: a much higher reduction than ours. This DEF provides for a growth of 0.2% for 2019, also resulting from an increase in investment expenditure and the effect of citizenship income. For the following year, GDP is expected to increase by 0.8%. Too little? We could also give an affirmative answer, but we should do so, as I said, with the obligation to take into account a context of general difficulty. Rather, there are some elements that lead us to hope well: the purchasing power of families increases by 0.9% compared to 2018; finally, after four years of decline, increases the propensity to save; resume to increase the consumption after a substantial stagnation in the last two quarters of 2018; also increase the industrial production in the first two months of the year, as certified by Istat and Bankitalia, and the confidence of the companies. All these macroeconomic data have already been discussed extensively by my previous colleagues. What I would like to focus on, therefore, is the impact on the real life of all these numbers. Well, attached to the Economic and Finance Document are the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being (BES), a series of indicators that tell us if and how it improves the life of Italian citizens according to the policies put in place by the Government. In practice, the reference is to what the Italians will actually touch with their hands, an aspect that should be the first thought of the political class and that is certainly ours. The first thing that positively affects BES indicators is the strong concentration of financial resources on the many aspects of social inclusion. Measures to combat poverty, increase the disposable income of households, promote participation in the labour market, training and generational change, stimulate investment (including energy efficiency), provide tax relief to the productive fabric and in particular to professionals and small businesses, support research and strengthen the security of citizens. In fact, the average disposable income is increased and the inequality and absolute poverty index are reduced. All basically thanks to the introduction of citizenship income. That is why I find the continuous and repeated attacks on this measure to be inconceivable, even defined by a trade union acronym during the hearings, a wrong recipe that needs to be changed. But how can we talk about the wrong measure if it has just come into force and the first answers are coming to the citizens these days? In my opinion, it is only prejudice and opposition without cause. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Saviane]] , if not that of the loss of control that one would like to continue to have on the weak sections of the population, which instead in this way can free and recover. It is clear that the government is at work to improve social inclusion, combat precariousness and encourage youth and female work through pension measures and citizenship income, which will be complemented by the introduction of the minimum hourly wage. One previous speaker said that the Italians will soon see the mistake made in voting for us. I tell him that for now about 500,000 families are realizing that the citizenship income is real, because the cards are already coming home with the amounts charged and that they can therefore be immediately spent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I said that thanks to our government's policies it improves the relationship between the employment rate of women between 25 and 49 years old with children of preschool age and women of equal age without children; then it improves the effectiveness of civil justice; instead, predatory crime and building abuse are reduced. Also in the field of the environment are being launched important norms that will lead to a reduction of the emissions of carbon dioxide: measures to stimulate the production of energy from renewable sources (the ministerial decrees RES 1 and RES 2); the implementation of the strategic plan of sustainable mobility, which includes the renewal of the bus park, the strengthening of the public transport, the encouragement of the conversion of the fleet of private cars with means with low emissive impact. Certainly there are areas where we need to do even more, such as health and education, but the National Reform Programme identifies the main measures to be taken in addition to those already provided for in the 2019 Budget Act. As I come to the conclusion, I consider the picture outlined by the Government in this document of economy and finance under discussion to be positive; I think that the climate of confidence that we are already beginning to breathe will only improve as we begin to see the effects of the measures launched and the other measures envisaged will be approved. I would add that it is a fact that the increase in unemployment also shows greater confidence, because it increases as a result of the shift of the inactive to the unemployed, that is to say to job seekers; people who from total discouragement return to hope in the future and look for work; people who get up from the couch, do not wait to sit down! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] It is therefore time to stop looking at a past studded with errors and look to the future, which finally appears more rosy to millions of Italians thanks to the presence of the Movimento 5 Stars at the head of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). A future full of debts!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u64	The debate is closed. I would like to say that we have received the Presidency and that motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 2 have been distributed. 1, presented by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, 2, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 3, presented by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, 4, presented by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 5, presented by Senator Ciriani and other Senators. The Presidency notes that the majority and minority rapporteurs have given up their replies on the basis of the tight deadlines for direct television broadcasting. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to indicate which motion for a resolution he intends to accept, before the Minister's reply begins, so that the 30-minute deadline for possible amendments can be set.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u65	Mr President, I am in favour of motion for a resolution No 3 and against all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u66	The Government has therefore declared that it accepts motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. The 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is therefore due from now on. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u67	Mr President, I will try to be brief, partly because many issues have already been discussed, and I will try to avoid giving the data, which have been mentioned several times. Allow me, however, to comment on this data as well. This discussion is important, because the DEF 2019 reports the results achieved during these ten months of activity and outlines the guidelines for budgetary and reform policy that will be implemented over the next three years. I refer to the economic context, which has been referred to and debated here several times. I can be quite brief in saying that when we talk about the progressive corrections of the economic forecasts made by the Government, until we arrive at the forecast of 0.1 for 2019, as a trend forecast, and 0.2, as a programmatic objective, it is evidently implied that these corrections have traced those of all international forecasting institutions. It has been mentioned here several times that the corrections made to the growth rate, even in Germany, have been even stronger. It has therefore been recalled - or perhaps not - that even the Italian forecasts for 2020 of the Italian Monetary Fund, which are also subsequent to those of the OECD, foresee a narrowing of Italy's growth gap compared to the very strong eurozone. You know that, unfortunately, the Italian problem is that of too low a growth rate: in the last decade this gap, this gap, has been constantly around one percent. It is expected, for 2020, that it will be reduced to 0.6 compared to the eurozone and, even, to 0.5, compared to Germany. But, at the same time, the growth forecasts for Germany worsen. Obviously, it was not this narrowing of the growth gap that we were looking for when we set the target a year ago. I would remind you that the first of the priority objectives we set for our action last June was to progressively reduce this growth gap and the second priority was to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Clearly, we are in a complex situation for the Italian economy, for the European economy and also for the global economy. It is not the government's responsibility to slow this down, but it is certainly the government's responsibility to react to this slowdown in the growth rate. Then we should ask ourselves the question: what should be the reaction? Do we have to change the strategy, just three months after the adoption of the budget law? If circumstances require it, you have to have the courage to change your strategy. But what were the pillars of the strategy that we put into government action? Public investments to support private investments; increase the return of capital in Italy on this road; bring a modernization of all technological and transport infrastructures, including intangible ones and, in this way, increase the competitiveness of Italy. That was the target. The opposition will say - as he said - that we are not doing well, but the resources are there and what we are doing is obviously trying to remove the obstacles to make these investments become reality. These are obstacles that have accumulated over the years in a complex regulatory structure, allowed by the governments that preceded us and also by the decay of the technical capacity of the public administration. The second point was the tax reform and the progressive implementation of a flat tax system, which began this year. Do we have to change our strategy? I do not believe, because I believe that this strategy serves to counter the slowdown in the economy and boost growth. Let me turn to the third point, concerning support for enterprises in technological innovation and the related strengthening - this is important - of social protection networks and social inclusion, also because - perhaps it has been mentioned - it is necessary to discuss, at this complicated stage of the Italian and European economy, the change of the growth model, which is also being discussed today at European level. I want to say that the three points mentioned - relaunching public investment; tax reforms; strengthening social protection networks and social inclusion measures - are at the heart of the international and European debate, because the situation has changed. The facts of the economy are also leading to a debate in Europe and at international level on these issues. In October it was difficult to talk about this, the world focused on what could be the possible financial crises, while today we are discussing these things and this opens up a new situation. How to react - I repeat - to the current cyclical phase? This phase tells us that in the first half of the year we will have a very low growth rate, but the first data tell us that we are in positive territory. A short time ago, the Bank of Italy said that it is recovering from growth. In the last quarter of last year there was the figure of -0.1%, while today we are on positive territory and the forecasts - not only ours, but also the general ones - indicate a possible recovery in the second part of the year. For the following years I have mentioned the forecasts not only of our own but also of the International Monetary Fund. In recent months the opposition has only said that, in the face of the economic difficulties, corrective action was needed. I always said no corrective action would be taken. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We did not do this because it was clear that, in the face of a strong slowdown in the economy, no restrictive fiscal manoeuvres are being made. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Nor did Europe ask for this; it was only asked here. Of course, because, as they say in the jargon, we do not have much fiscal space and we have to keep public finance commitments, we do not even make expansive manoeuvres. For 2019 - it has been recalled - the nominal deficit - GDP will go to 2.4%, but we will fully respect the commitment with the European Commission on the structural deficit. Of course, for lower GDP growth than expected, the debt-to-GDP ratio will also increase slightly. I would like to point out that the target of decreasing the debt-to-GDP ratio in the DEF is made clear for the next three years. At the same time, I also want to say that our debt - and we must say, I believe, all of us together in the world - is perfectly sustainable. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In a phase of falling growth rate, we are not faced with the debt explosion. In recent years our debt has stabilized: some years it grows a little, some years it decreases a little. Obviously, the problem is to put it on a path of constant decline. FARAONE (PD). And happy. Mr Tria, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. At this stage it is obviously complicated, but that is the goal for the next three years. That is why we have set clear targets for public finance over the next three years and, as you know, the DEF macroeconomic framework serves to provide the framework for public finance forecasts. Not only is there no corrective manoeuvre, but we have done some corrective manoeuvre in the opposite direction, because the two decrees that are about to be launched bring little additional, but important, resources, because they are well directed to the support of investments. Few additional resources because we have to maintain the public finance objectives (we have only partly used some savings that we will also have on the payment of interest) but all the measures go in the direction of support for businesses, credit, small businesses, to support investments at a time when they are difficult, because of the international situation: when there are no orders, it is difficult for companies to make investments. Moreover, there are serious measures to start dismantling that scaffolding which in the procurement code blocks, to a large extent, the speed with which public investment funds actually become yards. So it's a corrective manoeuvre in the opposite direction, because we're reacting. The impact is obviously 0.1%, because we leave in the middle of the year, but it can also be significant in subsequent years. All predictions are pretty careful. I would also like to recall the fact that, when it comes to raising the unemployment rate, we must also read the last line of the unemployment rate table; it is clear that there is also an initial statistical effect, because, with citizenship income, there will be hundreds of thousands of people entering the labour force in the first phase, and statistically this means increasing the unemployment rate immediately, before this results in an increase in the level of the employed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Even the 100 quota has a statistical effect, because if hundreds of thousands of people suddenly retire, the number of people employed is reduced and there is a time to replace them; whatever the replacement rate envisaged, in any case it takes some time, so we have this immediate effect. But let us also take into account this data. That's the situation. Is there a strategy? Yes. There is a strategy that concerns the confirmation of the maneuvers that have been approved by the 2019 Budget Act, of the additional maneuvers, and then there are these public finance objectives. And here I come to the point on which we discuss every day: VAT. This DEF largely, basically, accepts the public finance framework to existing legislation. And to existing legislation, as it is written in the DEF, there is the increase in VAT, which is not a safeguard clause, because the safeguard clauses are prohibited by the accounting laws. It is a law that will have to be changed in order to avoid, if we want to make a political decision, the increase in VAT. This problem will be addressed when the 2020 budget law is drawn, together with the continuation of another step, another step, of the tax reform in the government programme. This means that we must find the resources to do so; But this is a tautology, of course, when the public finance objectives are set in this DEF and in the DEF it is stated that the maneuver that will be made with the budget law in the direction of avoiding the increase in VAT and of continuing tax reform, moving another step in that direction, will be made in compliance with the public finance objectives defined in this DEF. On the other hand, in the second half of the year we will have much more information. Firstly, information on the actual evolution of the Italian economy, which - I repeat - depends a lot on how Germany and the other parts of Europe react to the slowdown, because we could have a more negative or a more positive scenario. The only prediction that can be made - I have already said - with which one always guesses is that the forecasts then change; we must therefore see what the macroeconomic situation will be and draw, according to economic growth, what we will do. We will also have the data, yes, initially actual, on the development of expenditure on the measures we have adopted with the budget law for 2019, first of all the income of citizenship and quota 100. We are monitoring and monitoring expenditure, and in the autumn we will have a clearer assessment of developments. We will also see whether we will be able to restart public investment, with all the pulling effect that they can have on growth. At that point, of course, there will be more room for all measurements. This is the framework, in which I think it is important, because the time is difficult, that we all look at the basic issues: if we do these things, if we succeed in restarting public investment, if the measures we are taking these days will really be able to unblock the yards. These are the basic issues for action. It is clear, then, that the economy, including the private sector, must react and not just follow a model, the German model, which is entering crisis. From this point of view, the revival of domestic demand is also a problem for the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u68	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. I'm sensing that live television is on. I therefore call on Members to respect the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u71	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President, Minister, I would like to express my support for the DEF presented by Minister Tria and validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office, which, moreover, has rightly shown that there is a lower risk of growth than expected, which is already very modest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Bravo! MONTI (Mixed). With regard to the motions for resolutions tabled, I reserve the right to direct my vote after I have read them carefully. If I say this favorably, it is because I interpret this DEF not so much as a document of economy and finance, with a credible vision and a concrete strategy to restore dynamism to the Italian economy and society, things that, despite the efforts, I do not see, but because this year, in my opinion, the acronym DEF must be understood in another way: declaration of avoided failure. [[Applause from Senator Conzatti]] I'm not saying that in a derogatory sense, on the contrary. In fact, Italian citizens must be grateful to Minister Tria, mild but coriaceous, able to resist to unlimited doses of derision, to absorb them with smiling expression, to always turn the other cheek. Sometimes I wondered with a little bit of annoyance: But how many cheeks does that minister have? The Minister of Economy and Finance managed to mitigate the effects, in some respects potentially bankrupt for public finance, as well as negative for growth, that the government's loose economic policy would have provoked. Similarly, looking forward, this low-profile DEF has at least one value: it reminds citizens - and dares even remind the rulers - that everything cannot be done at the same time. The increase in VAT would certainly be regressive and recessive, according to how inopportune only to the cut of the facilities to the weakest sections of society: I quote this because it was the dilemma in front of which I found myself at the end of 2011, when I inherited from the government before the first safeguard clause, introduced in situation already of financial emergency in August 2011, for 20 billion. We were able to disarm it for 13.4 billion, but the rest went to a point of increase in VAT, reluctantly and only because it would be even worse, I believe, economically and socially, to cut the benefits to the socially weakest sections. In this political and public debate that we are going through, I think it is a great merit of the Minister to point out that everything cannot be done, that everything has its costs and that resources are limited. I think it must be appreciated and I am convinced that it is appreciated by the citizens but, if I may, the members of the majority parties and the Government, in my opinion, should respect even more a Minister who, in a seraphic way and presenting it as a tautology, manages to represent the fact that the resources are limited and that budgetary constraints would exist even without the European Union, only because we have children, grandchildren and that there are future generations. So my position on this somewhat subdued DEF is favourable, especially because it can serve as a clarification to those who govern and to public opinion, who must follow the moves of those who govern and oppositions, who have had so many valid arguments today, to move in a concreteness of choices limited by resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u74	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, just six months after the update note that we were talking about 1.5% growth in 2019, the government today certifies that this is only 0.2. Moreover, the forecasts of this DEF show that the flag measures of the income of citizenship and of quota 100 will not bring any improvement to the current development of the economy. This means two things: that Italy is on the verge of economic recession and that this recession is also the result of deeply wrong policies. However, the slowdown in the international framework has already shown the way since last year: to protect the positive development of the last quarters by placing resources in favour of companies and the production system, lowering the tax burden on the middle class. Like many others, we have immediately expressed our concern about flag measures. It is now clear to everyone: either public services must be cut or VAT increased to finance them. The increase in VAT would mainly affect those who earn little and who spend almost all their income on consumption. South Tyrol's businesses and businesses, like all those in border areas, will suffer a severe impact on competitiveness. Ordinary VAT in Austria is at 20%, 5 points less than what will be in Italy with the possible increase. As if that were not enough, the government announces that it wants to introduce flat tax, a measure to the benefit of the wealthy classes. We do not understand how flat tax can be envisaged in this difficult framework; there is not the slightest possibility of financing it. Certainly, the cancellation of tax reductions and deductions will not be sufficient, which are important tools, however, because they serve to direct society to desired behaviors. In conclusion, increasing VAT and introducing flat tax is in stark contrast to the narration carried out in recent months of a Government attentive to the last and interested in relaunching consumption with 100 share and citizenship income. I really hope that once we get past May 26, we will know more about programming. To date, it is not clear to whom the 2 billion clause will be cut out. It is not known what happened to the privatisation plan with which the government was planning to recover 17 billion euros. After almost a month, we have no trace of the unblocking yards and the growth decree. The real point is that, once again, this Government is completely irresponsible and guided only by electoral objectives. Buying consensus by increasing public debt means governing the present by downloading costs on future generations. It is the most serious of the problems, just as young Greta explained today, here in the Senate. That is why our Group will vote against the resolution tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u77	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, perhaps President Conte was right when he told us that the times of this DEF, in a context of such great uncertainty, are not exactly the right ones. Yes, because the picture, objectively, is very serious and very critical. However, from here to a document - Minister, Tria - that gives no answer and without any indication, there is all the embarrassment of the Government. At this point, not only does it come to think that it has been decided to postpone every choice to after the elections, in order to be able to tell so everything and the opposite of everything - and already this would be very serious - but perhaps the problem is the lack of a strategy: there is no plan for the country, only commercials, moreover conflicting between Movimento 5 Stars and League. It could be said that everyone plays their part in comedy. Truly, the only thing that holds 5 Stars and League together is not the contract; I fear it is the management of power. We are seeing it in a resounding way: we are not facing a revolution, we are facing a failed revolution, promises and stories very far from the truth. The picture of numbers is realistic: Minister, you couldn't do otherwise. Let's face it. You couldn't write any more numbers, given the evaluation. You had already tried it in the budget law when, in front of all the institutions that were already talking about a growth of 0.5-0.6 percent, you said it would be 1%, indeed, at least, because we would grow more. You couldn't do another scene like this. We are stagnating, yes: debt and unemployment are growing. Even counting the fact that there will be more people to register because of the income of citizenship, the main point remains: is there a problem of work and employment, or not? I would also be cautious: I, like you, would like the recovery of industrial production in these two months to consolidate and grow, but the representatives of the Istat - which you mentioned - warned us that we must be very careful anyway, because the picture remains rather negative. The Government has estimated for the income of citizenship an increase of 0.1 percent in 2019 and for quota 100 equal to zero: these are two measures that, as you know, we have not opposed in a preventive way; on the contrary, addressing the issue of the Fornero law was and is essential, but the problem is that you have not abolished it, you have simply made a new staircase. I don't think people want to be on the couch: they want to work, but you keep confusing work with interventions on poverty. Then there are the decrees-laws-growth and unblock yards, on which there is an important issue: I would like to make you think about the institutional method, Minister. You listed the two decree-laws for a +0.1 percent while we have not yet seen them and we do not know what is written and how to unblock yards, in the terms in which it has been told, we are concerned about the issues of legality that will open, if the news is correct. The real problem is that, as the President of the Republic has rightly told you, we cannot hold more than a month in the bathroom a measure that should be urgent: there is a constitutional problem. That's how we get to the VAT farce. I would like to say to the League's Parent Company that, as I also said in the Commission this morning, it is very true that Minister Tria at the hearing read the wording on VAT in the DEF. The problem is that we did not blame Minister Tria, but the two Vice-Ministers of your Government. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and Senator Unterberger.]] Now, instead of writing what you said in the resolution, you clearly write: Iva will not increase, because you have not done so in your resolution. Now, I always listen to everyone: it takes at least 23 billion euros for 2019, 33.8 for 2021 and 43 for 2022. How will these problems be dealt with? I don't ask for a table, I didn't ask for it in the DEF. How you will deal with these problems you have not told us and it is not that you have not only told the Senate or the House, do not tell the Italians, that they would like to know because it is a problem that concerns the resources that, to use an old expression, will be faced by going into their pockets and moreover, with the approach you have, those with a medium-low income, because for those with higher incomes, perhaps, you will make the flat tax. This is a very serious problem. There are no covers in the system and in the numbers written in the DEF, because billions are missing to firm policies in 2019, so to speak, and the ads you made are not standing. Now, I would like to make it very clear that we are isolated from Europe. I agree that European policy must be changed, but you will never succeed if you continue to put your fists on the table and insult half of Europe: it will never change Europe; it will never change. Secondly, asset disposals are a dream, unless you do comedy-to-Italian things, such as the sale of the Colosseum. I'm a dream. As far as the revision of expenditure is concerned, there is no principle. The three most important items are: public administration, health and education. Let's see how we look. There is a huge problem here, there is an emergency in the public administration: teachers and doctors are missing. The Court of Auditors says that your DEF lacks the coverage of contracts, let alone the thousands and thousands of assumptions that should be made. You - and I conclude - are proposing investments. Now, let's look at these investments for a moment: you have proposed some instruments that will not work, such as the directing booth, Invitalia and others, but if we do not employ in the municipalities, in the regions and in the specialized personal Provinces to do the contracts, everything will remain blocked. Two last things. There is a black hole in the DEF: the Mezzogiorno. Do not speak and do not address a dramatic issue such as that of the Mezzogiorno and perhaps you want to make differentiated autonomy without fundamental principles: federalism is going to give a blow to the whole country and, first, to the Mezzogiorno. You have a serious problem (let me conclude this way): instead of making control booths and centralized instruments that won't work, you have a big coordination problem. The President of the Council has it: he must explain to the Minister of the Interior that he cannot be Minister of the Interior, Minister of the Economy, Minister of Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs and he cannot be the mayor of all the Italian Municipalities. It's a constitutional problem. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and PD Groups and Senator Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u80	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, the Italians have just heard that the former President of the Monti Council has given a positive opinion on this matter. Economics and finance document. The former President of the Monti Council said that this is the right path, foreshadowing what is in his political and financial knowledge and which the Italians already know well. I say this not only to the friends of the League and to the colleagues of the 5 Stars, I say it to the Italians: what has happened in these ten months, if President Monti, the one who has carried out economic manoeuvres that unfortunately have penalized productive Italy and social Italy, has reached a positive judgment of this Document and of the prospects that it realizes? I say this to Prime Minister Salvini (it is no coincidence that I call him " Premier") who, a year ago, before making the Government, proposed for Italy an economic maneuver that this year would lead to a +2.5 percent. I say this to the majority, who thought that they would achieve an economic manoeuvre of 1.5 percent and then, four months ago, they were talking about a 1% growth rate. I tell the President of the Count Council, who was talking about a beautiful year and I ask the Italians who are listening to us if this is their beautiful year. I tell Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, who has the economic levers of the country and who still on January 11 of this year spoke about the new Italian economic miracle that would develop in spring and I ask Italian citizens if we are facing a new Italian economic miracle. What happened? It has happened that you have made an economic maneuver of change by pointing out to everyone that Europe and its rules were the enemy and today you are fully adapted to European rules. You said that you would break European rules and then pitifully negotiated, already in the economic budget maneuver, a mere +1 percent. Minister Tria, there is no Minister for European Policy next to you. Why isn't he here? Where has Minister Paolo Savona gone, who should have changed Europe with you? He has resigned from the government and you have not replaced it: we do not even have those who represent us in the European Union! You gave up. You painted then that the enemy was Europe and this year I heard the speeches of colleagues from the majority, who say that now there is not only Europe against Italy, there is also Germany that has stopped, there is also China that grows less, there are also the United States and there is even the United Kingdom with Brexit, there are Brazil and Latin America that do not grow: the world is against you. Next year, who are you going to blame for the recession, unemployment, the decline in consumption, the decline in investment and the increase in poverty in this country? Will you blame the Martians? Or will you assume the responsibilities of what you have determined by a failed economic maneuver to which, as Minister Tria said today, you do not react? The Minister said that there is no need for corrective maneuvers or expansive maneuvers, that is, there is nothing: for this reason the former Prime Minister Monti gives you full votes. There is nothing in the document of economy and finance, although there are total expenditures for about 133 billion euros over the next three years and, only for this year, 23 billion euros to be recovered to avoid the increase of VAT and 400 million euros to avoid the increase of excise duties on petrol, which you said you would cancel. Next year the need will be even more, almost double, and do not tell the Italians how you plan to achieve it; You do not say that either in the document or in the resolution, to which we shall be voting against. Do not say if you will increase VAT, as Monti has suggested, however, because he has done this, if you put an asset, about which you speak in your private covens. Don't say anything anymore; you don't have a dream anymore, you don't have a plan, you don't have a soul. Your contract is a marriage of interest at the expense of the Italian community. There is nothing in this Document, as there is nothing in the two decree-laws that you have approved for a month, but that no one knows. You yourself have said that the decree unlocks construction sites does not unlock the great works: it does not unlock the TAV, nor the 28 great works of the Country and in fact, will not - you say yourself - produce any benefit on the growth of the Country. The so-called growth decree will benefit this year by 0.1 percent. Minister Tria, would you ever call a measure "decree growth" if it envisaged a growth of 0.1? I would call it "decreto stagnazione" or "depression" a certificate of failure. The failure is seen - I say it to the friends of the League - from the true data of the Country, of a country that no longer dreams because even your dream has shattered against the reality and impotence of an unnatural contract, which in fact has handed over the country and the economic and productive ministries to an old left, who thinks to realize in this country a Marxist logic condemned by history. The data are evident: the birth rate still decreases and you have not approved a measure that can reverse the trend; the escape of Italians from Italy increases and increases the number of young graduates who flee from our country and that of those who, even in an advanced age, leave Italy. Last year there was talk of about 283,000 people and the numbers of the first months of this year are still growing. What is the point of closing the borders - and we agree to close them - if the Italians flee from Italy? Emigration has now returned to the level of the 1950s. What's the point of stopping immigrants - and we have to stop them - if Italians leave their country? We need to have another vision, not as yielding as the one you presented in the Document of Economics and Finance, obtaining the vote of Senator Monti, but certainly not that of the productive classes of the Country. Instead, there would be a need for an expansionary economic maneuver, which points to investment in infrastructure. It is true that Germany is slowing down, but Merkel, in the face of the slowdown in the German economy, has decided to devote all resources to investment and infrastructure: that is exactly the opposite of what you are doing. For this reason, the Brothers of Italy Group, unlike Senator Monti, will give a strongly negative opinion on the document of economy and finance under consideration, because it does not offer a perspective to the country, does not reverse the course and resigns to decadence, crisis and depression. We, however, will not resign and I believe that neither will the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u83	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative ministers, ladies and gentlemen, where can we begin? It's embarrassed to choose. We follow a chronological criterion and start from the evening, from my inauspicious point of view, at least for the country, of September 27. On that unfortunate evening, I don't know how else to define it, your Minister of Economic Development improvised a nice party, having fun behind our country and the Italians, to signal two events, according to him both historical: the end of poverty in our country and a Note to update to the DEF, which fixed growth to 1.5%. I want to repeat this figure: 1.5 percent. It is said that lies have short legs and that of 1.5% not only did not turn out to be a correct truth and prediction, but what we believe to be the truth is that you knew it perfectly and were therefore lying to Parliament and the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Poverty, of course, has not been abolished and indeed, with a certain stubbornness and determination, you have pursued the increase in unemployment, which means economic and moral poverty, because our country has the right to be based on work. Your culture instead takes our country away from work. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today, Ministers, we read in the DEF that the trend growth of 2019 will be 0.1% and this means one thing very precise: we do not expect a so-called beautiful year. We are not expecting a beautiful year at all, we are experiencing a nightmare, a period of stagnation, zero growth and great difficulties. The President of the Council, however, had the opportunity to define it in this way, again trying to make fun of the Italians, to tell about the fandonies, to make them perceive a climate very far from reality. The debt, which in December was quantified at EUR 130.7 billion, will be worse and will be EUR 132.6 billion. Noteworthy, it is a historic peak from 1924 to the present day. What can I say, Ministers, representatives of the government? Congratulations to the President-in-Office of the Council, to his deputy: you are trying hard and you are trying to destroy our country and our economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Come back to raising unemployment. It had to stand at around 10% and will touch 11%, again growing after years of reduction started with the Renzi Government and strengthened in the years of the center-left governments. And to say that his colleague, Minister of Labour, Luigi Di Maio, had the right recipe, he called it a decree of dignity, the key with which the Giallorossi government - your government - would definitively resolve not only the question of poverty, but also that of job shortages. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the only ones obtained with that decree-law are greater unemployment and greater poverty in our country. In recent months, the confidence of consumers, businesses, savers, families and international investors has collapsed thanks to your deranged policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Italians have rightly begun - I would say finally - to worry, they have postponed the purchases, they are decreasing the consumption. This is the country that you wanted, this is the general condition to which you have brought us. But why is trust crumbling? Among other reasons, I would like to remind you of the arguments of quarrel within the Government, among the Vice Presidents of the Council, among the Subsecretaries, among the majorities, views and magazines in television interviews, declarations, tweets and in the various ways in which you continue to speak to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] An example is the 100th quota, or the shameful congress that took place in Verona, the shameful bill Pillon, which wants to bring our country back to the Middle Ages. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , the management of Rome, of our Capital: today's telephone interceptions are and perhaps you should reflect and you should say something in the Chamber about our Capital, which now clearly has a false budget wanted by the first town. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Not only that, there are quarrels about alliances in Europe, quarrels about our national holiday, that of April 25, to which we are going to arrive with a situation and political positions by representatives of this government who are shameful. We must all go to the square to celebrate the liberation of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame on you! Mr Marcucci (PD). It's our party. But not only that, there are the directives of the Minister of the Interior, the ordinances to the prefects, and I have remained only at the last moments of recent news. In your opinion, Minister, what happens when the two main members of the government give them a godly reason on every occasion, and not for great ideal reasons, but for reasons of mere electoral interest, mocking the Italians, trying to explain to them that within the Government there are two souls? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, Ministers, we don't fall for this. The country has understood it, you pretend on this too, the government is one, you are all responsible for this document of economy and finance, you are all responsible if the country is reduced in these conditions. You scared the Italians, you scared international investors. You've grown the spread. And today we have a merciless photograph in this document. You also gave up giving a positive message to the country. You've given up a recipe and indicated a way out. Do not be ashamed to say to the country: here we are; here we will find ourselves; here we will remain; this is our destiny? This is what you have done with this document, where you only understand that you will increase taxes, increase VAT and continue to impoverish our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] And the Democratic Party doesn't say that. Minister, you told the House yesterday. In fact, you say so in your resolution. The oppositions, in fact, can simply say that VAT will not have to increase, but the majority must also say how. You have the burden of government! You have the burden of choice. You have the responsibility to have splashed the deficit of the country where it is today with unnecessary measures. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] You have the responsibility, now stated, not to know how to write the decrees-laws, that they are not enacted because you do not know how to write them. However, it is better this way, because they would be harmful to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] Do you know what it means to increase VAT? Do you know what that means in terms of consumption? Do you know what you're gonna put this country in? You have to think about it. The Democratic Party cannot accept this situation but - alas - the country cannot accept this situation. An unprecedented situation, with an inability to administer, to govern, to dialogue, to confront, to make important decisions for the country. I think we just have to say enough. The Economy and Finance Document is your declaration of surrender. You're giving up, but against who? Against the enemy? No, against yourselves, against your inability to rule. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] Mr President, authoritative representatives of the government, after a year (you have been doing damage for a year now), you have brought the country to its knees. You've brought Italy to its knees. With this Document certified your clear will to give the blow of grace to the Country: block the yards, increase the unemployed, create fear and distrust in the Italians, increase in an uncontrolled way the public debt, do more than double the spread to the detriment of the Country, the citizens and the Italian enterprises. Finally, you reduce foreign policy to nothing, you do not defend our interests and, ultimately, you also increase VAT. I think it's time we said enough. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u86	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and all my colleagues who have spoken in this debate for having made it exciting, at least in tones, if not in content, that were sometimes non-existent or non-conferenceal, a debate which, for an economist, has few reasons of interest, as I am going to explain quickly to the citizens who listen to us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is because the DEF, the Document of Economics and Finance, is only one of the many acts, the least significant, of the complex liturgy that goes under the name of the European Semester; liturgy introduced in 2010, in the midst of the crisis of sovereign debts, with the noble stated aim of coordinating European economic policies but, in reality, someone supports, to surreptitiously commissary the countries that were or that wanted to end in crisis. There was no coordination and Senator Monti complained about this when, in a well-known interview with CNN, he said that he had cut the domestic demand of the country, expecting others to grow theirs. Eight years later, we're still waiting. Scientific assessments of this coordination instrument are still open, but one thing is certain: one of the effects of the European Semester is to keep us here to discuss nothing or, worse still, force the debate on the country's economic policy within a senseless framework, because it is manifestly bankrupt; that of austerity policies. This framework is bankrupt, as demonstrated by the results. Not Italy, but the whole of the Eurozone and the whole of the European Union, since they adopted this method have worsened their economic performance in relation to that of the other countries of the world economy. It is a phenomenon on which today the Governor of the Bank of Italy questions, without being able to explain it. Yet the answer is in front of him and is given by budgetary policies condemned to be inadequate, because they refer not to real economic data, but to an evanescent, arbitrary and abstract concept: the potential product, that is, the level of production that an economy can sustain without the increase in activity being dumped on the rise of prices. The senselessness comes from here. In order to make the European Union happy, each country must ensure that the Commission maintains a sufficiently high unemployment rate which avoids pressure on wages. In essence, the European Union calls for a large reserve industrial army to ensure that workers - employees, professionals, traders and small businessmen - do not improve their position at the expense of profits and financial incomes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] They call it NAIRU (Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment), i.e. unemployment rate that does not accelerate inflation. But a rose with another name would have the same perfume and the same goes for a corpse like this kind of economic coordination. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And then we are talking about nothing, especially considering that we are well below that 2% inflation rate that the European Central Bank, in its unfathomable will, has indicated as an objective of price stability. Fighting inflation in the absence of inflation does not work, but it does not surprise us from those who fight fascism in the absence of fascism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Protests from the PD Group.]] They are two similar methods of doing the same class policy to the detriment of the last, indeed the penultimate ones, because for the last the resources are found as long as they do not come to live in Parioli. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Protests from the PD Group.]] We wanted to reverse the course. Did we do that? That's the question. We have received the answer from the minority rapporteur with two grave words: failure and impotence; with these words he has cleared our experience. BELLANOVA (PD). Shame! BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). That is why the last part of the previous year was marked by a technical recession, which we would obviously have been powerless to deal with. And while, downed by this final sentence, I was going back to my study, surprisely a Reuters agency comes out to certify that, in the first quarter of this year, the country has started to grow again, as Minister Tria told us just now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And so we understand why PD was talking about Pillon: not to mention GDP, because if it had talked about GDP it would have to certify that what we are doing is already having effects. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Then let us think for a moment about the numbers, rather than about these predictions that a particularly crafted policy framework forces us to produce. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Mr President, I would like my quiet speech to take place in a different climate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Perhaps, for the benefit of the listener, we need to explain to the citizens how things stand. It is not from the DEF (which is not a law, but a programmatic document that responds to rather particular logics) that one must evaluate the action of a government, but from the budget law, which actually disposes the measures and allocates the resources. The technical recession at the end of 2018 was the last tail of the heavy legacy left to us by those who want to prevent us from talking right now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Then came our budget law and things actually changed. There's numbers. To be clear, let us think about industrial production, since we are the second largest manufacturing power in Europe. Do you know how industrial production went from July to today? The European Union has achieved less than 0.5%, the euro area less than 1.2%, Germany less than 4%, France 2.5% and Italy 0.4%. Do you know what has happened since the beginning of this year, that is, in January and February? The European Union has achieved 1.5% (it is recovering), Germany less 0.6% and Italy 2.7%. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] These are the data that Bloomberg reports and these results are not random. It's not like we got lucky. We did some sensible work. I tell you only one: the unblocking of the leftovers of virtuous territorial public administrations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] A month ago, on 15 March last, the sun 24 hours could not help but point out that the actual public procurement expenditure had increased by 15.8% in the first two months of the year, with an increase that in the regions reached 84.9%. In addition, new competitions were also increased, at least those for works of up to 150,000 euros, where we introduced important regulatory simplifications: well, those were increased by 8.6 percent. These are the results, and they are not intentions but deeds, and on these we want to be and will be judged. A government that has been able to set up an effective countercyclical maneuver at a particularly complex stage of the world economic cycle deserves the trust of this majority and will have the confidence of the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And for this reason I declare the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione to the Document of Economics and Finance of this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u89	[[Brusio.]] PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr. President, I don't want to disturb... [[Call the president back.]] Thank you, after Mr Bagnai's exploit, I would not like to disturb my colleagues with my speech. Mr President, colleagues, members of the Government, in April 2018 the Government Gentiloni Silveri, defeated with its majority in the elections on 4 March, presented a document of economy and finance that stopped at the trend, and wrote it explicitly, saying: I stop at the trend, because rightly those who won the elections, or at least the new government, will have to deal with the evaluations and the national reform program, then the next part. But now there are no longer the reasons for 2018 to present a Document that practically stops at the trend. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] : that's the question. The DEF is photography, it is projection over the three-year period, but basically it should be a national reform programme; it should be what the government and the majority want to do for the future politically. In the part of photographic evaluation, of evaluation of the current, after having attended the Note of variations of October with practically lotto numbers, with a maneuver modified in course in December, also with some significant error in the Official Journal, and it costs 100 spread points that we are still carrying today (points that weigh 4-5 billion on the Italian public debt but also on the debt of the enterprises and the families), we now take positive note of a bath of humility, that of course we write to the Minister of the economy as merit: a realistic photo even if bitter. As everyone has said, we have: a firm country; high rates for debt (250 more points than the lowest, Germany); declining orders for the productive system, also due to the international crisis; discussions, fueled in our Commissions and in this House, on decimals or zero comma compared to surplus or deficit GDP points. Therefore, a manifestation of economic and social discomfort, uncertainty and mistrust. The terms most used during the hearings were those of trust and mistrust. It is clear that the aim is to achieve, in my opinion, first of all achieved by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars. The Minister also used the term today, which in one passage spoke of degrowth. Well, we're on our way to happy degrowth. The discussion is how to cover the deficit, which taxes increase, which costs cut, each with its own justification; everything in a legislative framework unchanged to date, with the automatic result (because it is already law) of the increase of VAT to 23 billion euros in 2020 and 29 billion in 2021. This is already the law, Parliament must no longer vote on anything (I hope it will not apply). A forecast in the DEF of cutting deductions and deductions of 15 billion; 18 billion privatisations, wanting to assess, then, what are and if there will be, and, of course, some billion more debt to pay for our children. For the Government, therefore, in 2019 Italy will grow by 0.2 percent. I'd just like to give a valuable example. A growth of 0.2 percent corresponds to about 3 and a half billion. The estimated gross domestic product of our country is 1,779 billion euros per year; the working days are calculated by statisticians in 305: it means 5.8 billion per day. One day's work is enough to make the 0.2 extra become 0.1 less: one working day. I hope that someone has also looked at the 2019 calendar against this forecast: Christmas will be Wednesday, Santo Stefano Thursday, 27 Friday, riding on Saturday, 28 Saturday, 29 December Sunday; the only working day, if we want to work in full, is Monday, December 30. Think of what may be the consequence of the assessment of the discussion of 0.2%. So, in the national reform programme, we had to say, here, what we wanted to do with the state budget and the country's economy, so with respect to private activity, to families, to well-being. Unfortunately there was no answer: total uncertainty. VAT is perhaps yes and perhaps not, even in the Minister's reply; flat tax is a piece yes, but perhaps not; shipyards yes, but also no. The confusion costs dear; it costs all the uncertainty that also determines the difference of spread. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As Italians, rather than as a responsible political force, we would like precise choices to create wealth; the extra wealth will reach everyone if we can create it. If one thinks only of distribution, as highlighted by the applause of some statements made today in this House, there is only one certainty: we will impoverish ourselves, we will impoverish the whole country and much more those who are already poor. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, the Government, in the debate in the Commission and in the Assembly, has made a long list of actions and measures, some already implemented, others put in place, some approved today by the Council of Ministers: dignity, citizenship, 100 quota, minimum wage, simplifications, flat tax, delegations, INAIL, 400 million on the Municipalities (which I appreciated), many shared. However, colleagues, these are micro-interventions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The government and this Parliament must realise that we have a national health system that no longer stands and that risks becoming a health care only for the rich and recommended, they must understand that families are massacred by taxes and tariffs, that companies, with the current tax wedge, have higher and higher costs while, on the other hand, wages are getting lower and lower. The need for real tax reform, also called for by the Minister, also means not breaking tax patterns, otherwise it really creates confusion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We need reforms that bring trust and equity to society, which has changed a lot: necessary reforms, which give peace, certainty and security to the country. That's what we need. To conclude, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we support Italy and will support any concrete measures taken in the interests of the Italians, as stated in our resolution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At this point the government has the courage to make proposals and brings them to this House proposals on how to sterilize VAT, because we do not want the 23 billion more VAT on Italian families, because that is where they will go in 2020. You bring them to Parliament: you will find for us the sharing in the search for the path. So far, unfortunately, on the part of the government, before anything else, we have only seen propaganda. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u92	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote on the first DEF of the Government of Change, the 2019 Economy and Finance Document. We have a fairly complicated international macroeconomic situation: on the one hand we have the United States, with their duties; on the other hand, we have Germany which has slowed down and we have China, which is its owner and with which we have, in any case, developed strong trade relations. We therefore have a very complex situation, but in all this we begin to record changes, positive signs. We don't say it, the Movimento 5 Stars doesn't say it, the Bank of Italy says it with the newsletter that it published today. There are positive signs on everything: on exports the trend remained favourable; on employment that is stable; on wages that are growing. The stock exchange has recovered 20% since the beginning of the year; even in March the growth of industrial production continued. The real estate market has returned to the levels of 2008 by number of sales; foreign investors have resumed to buy government bonds. Another sign of growth and change came from the citizens, from the territories, from the local authorities, thanks to the expansionary policies of this Government. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Bagnai mentioned this earlier and I also remember it: two very important measures are contained in the budget law for the municipalities: I refer to the management surpluses, which have been unlocked, and I refer to the famous 400 million that the municipalities have begun to spend. Thanks to these measures, too, we have positive signs of the increase in investment by municipalities and regions: precisely, I am referring to 22% and 85% more. If this is not good, President, tell us what is good. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Sure, we know there's a lot to do. The financial situation of local authorities is often dramatic in many cases. The situation in the provinces is dramatic. We remember very well that our predecessors have taken away resources, but they have left many tasks to do to the Provinces: we are "putting the pieces" slowly, because we do not have the magic wand and on this we are able to get positive signals from people, citizens and local authorities who today have more confidence in the central administration after years of austerity, closure and resignation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Surely, President, these days something very important is happening, in my opinion of historical significance, an event made up of solidarity, truly by ordinary people for ordinary people. I am referring to the fact that the INPS is beginning to accept demands for citizenship income and finally, within a few months, we have managed to achieve something for which we have fought for years and the first encouraging signs come. President, these are 600,000 families and, in addition to these, which I quote with reference to the income of citizenship, there will be 100,000 families in which at least one person will breathe a sigh of relief: a person who has worked at least thirty-eight years, paying social security contributions to the INPS, and has reached the age of sixty-two. Well, these families can have a person who can dedicate himself to affections, family, grandchildren, hobbies, and will do something indispensable for our country, that is, leave a free seat that will surely be occupied by someone younger. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] President, these are important signals. We know very well that, according to our detractors, statistics say different things, because these measures have a direct impact on employment and unemployment, but we also know that they are statistics that do not take into account the fact that the data will change shortly. It is logical that the number of people employed will be reduced by 100, as it is logical that the number of people employed will increase with the income of citizenship, therefore of the unemployed, but we have transformed inactive people - the famous neets - into active people, also contributing to public finance, because we know that they can also help us at European level. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We must only have confidence in the measures we are putting in place; we have had confidence for years and we have succeeded in achieving something; we must continue on this path. Ma'am, we've focused on serenity. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Yes, we have focused on the serenity of hundreds of thousands of families, in fact, more than a million families left behind for too many years by those who preceded us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Well, for these families we will finally have concrete facts. I am sorry to say that, but these families will now be able to consume more easily and will also bring an increase to our economy, which, unfortunately, has been forgotten for too many years. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] President, let us move forward because signs of optimism will come even after Easter with the approval of the growth decree and the decree unlocks yards, which will help the construction sector, a fundamental sector, driving our economy. Even from there we will have concrete results, and we will not do as our predecessors - excuse me if I always bring you up, but, unfortunately, it is the reality, it is the history [[Comments from the PD Group]] - that in the past loved to make very rosy forecasts, very favorable; we, President, are more "cracked", we stand more with our feet on the ground. President, on the primary surplus, who preceded us in 2013 estimated at one year and three years a surplus of 2.4 and 4.7; what happened? A 1.9 and a 1.4. It was the Led Government. Then came the Renzi Government: in 2015 it predicted 1.7 and 4.3; what happened? 1.5 and 1.6. President, it is time to say enough to these fanciful estimates that are not standing. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr President, we expect a humble 1.2 for this year and an equally humble 2.0 for next year, which we will certainly be able to achieve. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. First of all, it is essential to realise - especially effectively - what we have written in the DEF. I am referring to public finance commitments, which must be fully respected. In order to do so, it is necessary to defuse - once and for all - the safeguard clauses on VAT. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] This is 23 billion, which we will find, but I like to remind those who are following us that, of these, 19 billion we carry them because of those who have left them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We have added some, but to do good to the people in need. It seems to me a very simple thing that we will be able to achieve. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] President, we have worked hard in recent years, and we will continue to do so, in order to achieve many other objectives, including, President, a fundamental measure: for large families and for those with disabilities we must do everything we can to give them concrete answers. BELLANOVA (PD). Cheater! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] PESCO (M5S). Dear colleagues, I thank you for your appreciation; we know that you have not been able to do so, we do. That is why we are voting in favour of Resolution No 3, signed by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. [[Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Many congratulations]] Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, 100 of these days!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u93	I note that 15 amendments have been tabled on motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, accepted by the Government, whose texts are distributed. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u94	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.1 to 3.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u95	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u99	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that Senator Mallegni's scrum is empty, but the red light is always on during the vote. (Senator Malan removes the card from the voting device.) MORONESE (M5S). It's three days in a row!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u100	The card's been removed, let's keep going. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u101	The next item is: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on developments in Libya. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u102	Dear President, kind senators and kind senators, I welcome the request that this House also be informed of the state of the Libyan situation, on which I referred to the House of Deputies last week. The latest developments in Libya, in particular the military escalation, continue to be a cause of great concern for Italy, for Europe and for the international community as a whole. The security framework of the country remains extremely fragile and fluid, following the launch, last April 3, of the military offensive of the LNA towards Tripoli, in the wake of the conquest, at the beginning of December, of important areas of the South of the country, with the declared objective of combating terrorism and stabilising the region. On 6 April the president of the government of national agreement al-Sarraj sent a television message to the nation, in which he expressed surprise at the aggression that took place during the negotiations ahead of the National Conference and assured a firm response to what he called an attempted coup d'état. As the days passed, the clashes continued with alternating events, in a framework of substantial balance between the forces in the field. The main battle quadrants are located at the moment in the south of the capital, where the resistance of the forces under the government of national agreement against the advance of the LNA, and al-Jufrah, where the forces of Misrata are active, with the objective to compromise the long supply and logistics chain of the same self-proclaimed Libyan national army. Further exacerbating the level of the clash, particularly in the days of 16 and 17 April last, there was a prolonged launch of Grad rockets by LNA units to different areas of Tripoli city, which also caused some victims among the civilian population. There is an increase in tensions also in the Sirte area, where there have been prepositions of the measured forces and the declaration by the LNA of the start of an operation in the area. The stalemate on the ground, due to the apparent equality of forces in the field, has therefore inevitably led to an evident military escalation, with an increasing use of more powerful weapons and heavy artillery and an increasingly frequent recourse to aviation by both sides. To date, the clashes have led about 18,000 people to leave their homes and internally displaced people still seem to be on the increase. The exact estimate of the victims and the injured, at the moment a few hundred, is not certain, given the difficulty of reconciling the official information with those received from the ground. However, the UN mission also shares the perception of a likely worsening of the crisis. In this perspective and in this situation the risk of a humanitarian crisis is concrete. The situation of chaos and violence also greatly increases the risk of a re-emergence of the terrorist phenomenon, still well present in Libya, as confirmed by the attack carried out on 9 April by Daesh to Fuqaha (al-Jufrah) and as demonstrated by the infiltration of jihadist elements among the ranks of militias and fighter groups. The contrast to terrorism and the flow of foreign fighters, also due to the evolution of the Siraq quadrant, remains therefore one of the main challenges with which the country and the entire international community have to face responsibly. With regard to the possible consequences on migratory flows to Italy or other territory of the European Union, at the moment, beyond the figures circulated in recent days (even for propaganda purposes), the information in our possession does not emerge a picture of imminent danger. On all this complex security framework we naturally keep our attention very high also through our diplomatic headquarters and intelligence services. It is clear, however, that there is no time to lose in such a fragile situation. The continuation of the conflict, which could degenerate into a real civil war, must be avoided quickly and with all the necessary political commitment. On a political level, developments on the ground, in many ways unexpected, especially in their speed, have inevitably led to the failure of the UN Secretary-General's mission and the postponement of the National Conference, which - I remind you - was scheduled for 14 and 16 April in Gadames. It is clear, moreover, that at the basis of this new crisis there is also the loss of cohesion of the international community, which has clearly failed to offer univocal indications in ensuring, above all, with full compactness, its support for the action of the United Nations, as it did at the Palermo Conference. It is on the return to this issue that we are, therefore, deepening our energies and spending our political weight. As Guterres himself pointed out in his speech to the United Nations Security Council on 8 April, the current developments must not cause us to lose sight of the search for a political solution, which is the only truly sustainable one. Certainly, the main and immediate objective at this stage continues to be the cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a truce that will allow first of all to protect the population, manage aid and promote the reconstruction of a climate of confidence necessary to sit back at the negotiating table. Attempts have been made to mediate by UN Special Representative Ghassan Salamé with a view to reaching an agreement between the Parties on the ceasefire and the possible resumption of the negotiations. The greatest difficulty on this side comes from the conditions that the parties intend to impose for a return to the diplomatic table. Since the beginning of the crisis, Italy has carried out an intense diplomatic activity at several levels and at all levels. An activity aimed at the Libyan parties, the main regional and international actors, has involved the United Nations and the European Union, in order to prevent further deterioration of the situation on the ground, which could have serious consequences for the Libyan population and the stability of the entire Euro-Mediterranean region. On 5 April last, the Foreign Ministers of the G7 countries issued a joint statement on the situation in Libya that well photographed our position. In particular, the Ministers reaffirmed that there was no military solution to the Libyan conflict; they reiterated their full support for the Secretary-General of the United Nations and its Special Representative, Mr Salamé, to find a solution to the political deadlock in view of credible and peaceful elections, in line with what was agreed in Palermo. They called on all Libyans to constructively support the onusian process and invited the international community to show full cohesion in view of Libya's common stabilisation objective. We have also played a key role in drawing up the statement of 11 April last by High Representative Mogherini on behalf of the European Union on the situation in Libya, which is also fully in line with the Italian position. As I have also had occasion to recall last week before the House of Deputies, in these months, but also in these days and hours I have been in direct contact with the two main Libyan actors, President al-Sarraj and General Haftar, as well as with the other protagonists of the internal political landscape. I recently met, in particular, Deputy Prime Minister Maitig. Also frequent are the contacts of the other Ministers of the Government, starting naturally from Minister Moavero Milanesi, in a framework of coordination, ensured by the direction booth, which in the aftermath of the outbreak of the crisis I constituted at Palazzo Chigi. To all our interlocutors we have expressed our strong concern at the escalation of the military and the risks of a humanitarian crisis, as well as the urgency of working towards a ceasefire and an immediate interruption of the spiral of military opposition, preserving the integrity of Tripoli and the relaxation of the rest of the territory. It is, as has been said, a necessary way to restore space for political dialogue and to rebuild a minimum of trust between the parties, with a view to a credible and sustainable process. It is clear that promoting the ceasefire and the resumption of political dialogue cannot be without the willingness of the parties, and it is for this reason that we believe in an inclusive approach that, in compliance with international law, through a balanced mediation action, can keep open the channel of dialogue between the parties and listen to the legitimate expectations of the Libyan people, exhausted by eight years of instability and insecurity. Our support for the government of national agreement, in fact, has gone hand in hand in these months with a strong action of moral suasion, aimed at identifying every possible space of political understanding with the other actors, starting naturally from the recognition of the role of General Haftar, not only in Cyrenaica, but also at the national level. I have dedicated myself to this in particular in my meeting with al-Sarraj, on the sidelines of the summit between the European Union and the Arab League, which was held in Sharm el-Sheikh at the end of February, just on the eve of the Abu Dhabi talks, which had also ignited the flame of hope, because they had taken place in order to reason on a possible specific agreement between the parties. To this I continue to devote myself, in the awareness that the current maneuvering spaces are certainly small, but also with the certainty that there are no credible and sustainable alternatives. As I said earlier, this crisis is certainly the result of weaknesses that I would call structural in the local context, but also external influences, which have not always gone in the direction of stabilisation. The instability that has lasted eight years in Libya must also be included in a regional context, which seems no less critical and which we absolutely must preserve. Consider, for example, the latest developments in Algeria, the risks of repercussions on Tunisia and developments on the Middle East quadrant. The objective of promoting the recovery of wider international cohesion on the Libyan dossier is therefore more indispensable today than ever and drives me to an intense diplomatic commitment, also through my many missions abroad. With all the ministries involved, my diplomatic staff and competent bodies, we are further strengthening the direct link with major international stakeholders, starting with the United States, European partners and the most influential regional actors in Libya. The intercourse with Washington is particularly intense. As is well known - it has also been spread through the press - I had a telephone conversation yesterday with President Trump, with whom we shared the concern about military escalation and the risks of a humanitarian crisis. With President Trump we have agreed to remain in close and direct contact from the next days, from next week, in order to find a sustainable solution to the Libyan crisis and therefore to pursue a political solution. In recent days I have had an exchange of assessments with Chancellor Merkel, who, like me and with me, considers the cessation of hostilities and the resumption of dialogue with a view to a political solution essential and urgent. On several occasions I have also discussed the Libyan dossier with President Macron, last in Brussels. We remain in close contact also at staff level, with the common objective of pursuing the stability and development of Libya. An unstable Libya, moreover, cannot satisfy any national interest of any country. Differences on the subject not only appear illogical, but above all appear inadmissible. I also close the link with the partners in the region in order to get them involved as closely as possible with the political process that we prefigure and which we are pursuing. From Qatar to Egypt, from the United Arab Emirates to Turkey, passing through Tunisia and Algeria, the confrontation is open and constant with everyone. In addition to this intense political-diplomatic activity and despite the seriousness of the ongoing clashes, Italy continues to be present on the ground. Our embassy in Tripoli to date is fully operational, the Italian military personnel present in Libya - mainly concentrated in support of the activity of the hospital of Misrata and the Libyan Coast Guard - has not been evacuated. To all of them go our applause and our admiration for the commitment and dedication with which they carry out their task even in conditions of objective criticality. We are constantly monitoring the security conditions, but as long as they allow, we are determined to remain at the side of the Libyan people and we are determined to continue to work in the front line to ensure a sustainable transition, strong of our approach based on the utmost respect for the Libyan population and strong of a sense of responsibility that, if I may, is exacerbated from now on, because we derive from the fact - I would say objective - that we are among the few foreign countries that have a credibility that puts us in a position to interloquire with all the Libyan actors. Italy recently joined the World Health Organisation's call for the provision for humanitarian purposes of health kits in Libya. This will enable the World Health Organisation to continue its programme of distribution of medicinal products and to have medical and health facilities available for on-the-spot medical services. The supply will be arranged by the humanitarian deposit of Brindisi and delivered, through the embassy in Tripoli, to the Libyan Ministry of Health. We have also already given our willingness to both sides to provide Italian health care for the treatment of the wounded from both sides due to the clashes of recent weeks and we are considering - but it is really the last few hours - also the possibility to strengthen our medical care of the hospital in Misrata. On the humanitarian corridors in the region, our country, from the time of the Arab Spring to today, has shown - let me say this - the best face of Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Allow me now to make a few concluding remarks. There are those who claim that recent Libyan developments mark the failure of diplomacy and there has also been some criticism of the alleged lack of incisiveness of Italian action. In fact - and I also observed it in the House - the timing of the clashes leads us to think that we were moving in the right direction and that we therefore deliberately wanted to derail a concrete and well-started political process. We must therefore deepen all energy in an effort to recover it, avoiding once again that the forces of permanent instability, violence and the preservation of a status quo, of which the Libyan people are the first to pay the costs, can prevail in Libya. Again, I have repeatedly spoken of rebuilding trust between the parties and re-launching the negotiating path to find a sustainable solution and I have recalled the principle that has always inspired our government action: that of inclusiveness. Since the conference in Palermo, we have based our action on the need to cultivate and nourish a dialogue between all the different Libyan political souls, in the awareness of the complexity of that reality. Again, inclusiveness does not mean - I would like to stress this - ambiguity or indecision, but consistency with an approach that starts precisely from the consideration of our strategic interests and, therefore, from the need to ensure the stability of Libya. It also means balance, vision and maintenance of a mediation capacity that is essential to be able to exercise in order to silence weapons and make politics speak. It is illusory and dangerous to pursue a solution that aims to forcefully impose the reasons of some factions and of some countries towards others. Finally, I have observed in the House and I would like to reiterate this here that there are no economic or geopolitical interests that can justify military shortcuts and, ultimately, the risk of a civil war in Libya. As unfortunately the facts are showing, violence generates violence and does not serve the interests of the population, which already appears, to the state, hit or even displaced neither those of the international community nor, of course, those of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u103	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u104	Mr President, this sitting, as very rarely happens, will not be live on Radical Radio. And it won't be because, for a day, maybe two, Radio Radicale decided to dedicate all the space programmed to the deepening and memory of Massimo Bordin. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berardi]] But, Mr President, it is properly recorded, it will be properly stored in that jewel that is the archive of Radical Radio and can be heard in the coming days or years. I beg you. I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to reconsider the decision you have taken. Have a race: no problem. In fact, we asked for it every year. You see, privatising the Radical Radio archive is just not possible. She knows better than I do. I'm not long, but I'm also telling undersecretary Crimes. [[Comments from Senators Cyrinna and Pharaoh.]] I think changing opinions sometimes is a sign of strength and not weakness. Sciascia said: "I contradict and contradict myself," and I am proud of it. Having said that, I come briefly to Libya. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I imagine that all chancellors are at work, especially in the meantime, in order to avoid the explosion of a civil war and a humanitarian crisis, of course. I would say, however, that this is a bit of an expression. In fact, it does not seem to me that all the gates dialogue in the same direction. In order not to aggravate the embarrassment I will not name names, but I do not know if the voice, which has just arrived at me, of the rupture of diplomatic relations between al-Sarraj and France is right. I am sorry, because I am convinced that in these situations it is not a military action, let alone a civil war to resolve the situation, but a diplomatic effort. Except that, precisely, these three conflicts, an intralibic one, an intra-Muslim one (with Qatar and Turkey, on the one hand, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates on the other) and an international one constitute a tangle difficult to unravel. And if there is another reason why we need more Europe and to overcome the unanimity block of the Council and the Heads of State, we must not look very far. Let us look at Libya, with the risks you rightly pointed out, of contagion with Tunisia, with a less stable situation in Algeria and another more explosive situation (just look at a map) in Sudan. It's a tangle that should really scare everyone. In the meantime, hoping that this process will work - I think the whole country will push in this direction - I believe that avoiding a humanitarian crisis is indeed the priority. I take this opportunity to understand from you too, President Conte, what is left of Operation Sophia, because, if I understand correctly, there are no more ships, but only planes, to do what is not understood. And it is obviously not unthinkable for people to escape from the war, especially the civil war. We are not ready, like Italy and not even as Europe, to face a possible exodus, just as we are not ready; nor can we prevent refugees in Libyan lagers (especially Eritreans and Sudanese) from being used in the civil war, as is already partly happening. So diplomatic effort is the only one we have in front of us. Then we'll have time to look back, see what happened, who did it wrong, etc. But today we have this responsibility, for the part that concerns us, especially with regard to the Libyan population. Waiting for the day when it will be possible to analyse what has happened, it is in this direction, President Conte, that I really hope you will succeed in this diplomatic effort, especially in Libya, but throughout the area. There's no other choice. As for Sudan, al-Bashir must go to the International Criminal Court. This is the only way to avoid further bloodshed. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u106	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the framework which has made us very truthful and transparent - and therefore dramatic - about the situation that is taking place at the gates of our home, at the southern border of Italy, in the country where we have our priority strategic interest: Libya. The Prime Minister spoke of a humanitarian crisis that risks destabilising the entire Mediterranean. Libya risks becoming the new Syria, in a civil war, by proxy, between Sunni powers, in which Europe - not only Italy - will no longer have a voice. First of all, we wonder why this has happened so quickly in recent months in relation to the climate and the image that you, President Conte, had given in Palermo on 13 and 14 November. How come the situation has degenerated and if it could be prevented from degenerating. We all knew that Commander Haftar had moved from Cyrenaica helped by two European imperial powers and Sunni powers in the South of the country, also conquering the oil wells of ENI. We all knew that his troops had moved from the South and had arrived at the gates of Tripoli already over a month ago. In this context, the Government divided itself and divided its international alliances. In this context, our Government, aware of what was happening in the main country of strategic interest of Italy, has divided itself to the point that the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior, the one and the other Vice Premier have done and declared different things, making the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is not even present in this Chamber next to you. This to the point that you were forced to concentrate all powers and all representation at Palazzo Chigi and did well. The government has also divided itself from its international allies. He had obtained from Trump in his first interview in Washington some kind of protection over our interests in Libya. Meanwhile, we divided ourselves from the United States on Venezuela, divided ourselves from the United States on China, and recklessly announced the withdrawal from Afghanistan. At the same time we have isolated ourselves in Europe; at the same time we have appeared strange to Russia, to which we had even promised that we would withdraw sanctions; at the same time we have put a finger in the eye of al-Sisi; at the same time we have attacked Erdogan's Turkey. I do not know whether it was a wise policy to divide and divide us in relation to our international context, while Libya was at stake, a country that is our priority. Mr Conte, we speak to everyone, of course: Italy is Italy, especially in Libya and the Mediterranean; but I fear that no one will listen to us anymore. And even the indiscretions that came out yesterday from the interview that you finally had with President Trump are disturbing, because putting on the same podium, in the same telephone interview, Venezuela and Libya makes us understand something, at least for those who know this country and its foreign policy. What are we gonna do? Exactly the opposite of what we've been doing over the last few months. First of all, we need government unity. It is not acceptable that there are statements that are different from the electoral campaign in a Government that is leading a country, Italy, that risks suffering the most serious defeat of its republican history, undermining its own interests to the point of risking a humanitarian, political, economic, emerging crisis at its gates, in Libya. No divisions in the government are admissible. I say more. You should appeal to the unity of the country, because what we risk is really too much compared to what the government has put on the field. At these times it is absolutely necessary to express maximum national unity. Then we will judge the work of the Government, but today we must act quickly to recover what has not been done in these months, in which we have passed from the idyllic photo of Palermo, in which Italy had returned to the field, to the point where in Libya there is no more Italy, there will be no more Europe, but there will be a civil war between fundamentalist Sunni powers that fuel Islamic terrorism. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u107	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u108	Mr President, Mr Conte, we are all very concerned about the crisis in Libya. Libya is in front of Italy; it is a national interest, not only for Italy, as you mentioned, but above all for Italy; that Libya is stable is fundamental for us and not only for energy supplies: let us think about what the risk of a humanitarian catastrophe could mean for Italy. Tripoli is a city of two million inhabitants, one third of the inhabitants of Libya; what could happen if a civil war really broke out? With regard to this, as a consequence, there is a risk of an exacerbation of migratory crises. Similarly, terrorism, which we have so laboriously blocked in Iraq and Syria, could find new fertile ground in an unstable Libya. We know that Libya's difficulties are not born today, but, after two or three years of fragile balance, the situation is crumbling. We certainly do not believe that the government responsible for the crisis - there would be more to it - but let me give you a few notes. An excessive emphasis on the results of the Palermo Conference: there was talk of a decisive protagonism of Italy, but unfortunately this was not the case. Even compared to Haftar, perhaps there were too many red carpets thrown in front of him; it was right to invite him, but with due caution. In the meantime, however, the dossier was not handled with the necessary care and continuity. No longer has been invested in the fight against traffickers, as Senator Bonino recalled: the Sophia mission, which was so important, is a maritime mission that now has no ships at sea and Italy has not supported it. But even on the humanitarian corridors, we could work for a regular migration; even on that we have not made much progress. Italy, then, has turned out to be more and more isolated. We know different views and options than France, but that is precisely why we called for stronger work with the European Union. You said today that we have the same views with Germany, but in these months we should have worked harder and maintained the support of the United States, which is gradually decommitted. As Senator Urso also recalled, having different positions (or not too explained) with the United States about China and Venezuela perhaps, at this stage, did not help us. Even to strengthen the European dialogue, perhaps the words so rough that Minister Salvini often used against Juncker or the photo opportunity with the yellow vests that made Vice Prime Minister Di Maio were not really a viaticus to improve our relations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You talked about the directing booth. It is right that it is at Palazzo Chigi and it is right that you work there directly; but to make it work I think you would also need a traffic light to direct traffic between contradictory statements and some sign of stop to your ministers. In fact, we attend with concern a continuous fight among the Ministers and among the majority shareholders of his coalition: closed ports, says Salvini; it is not enough to close the ports, says vice-premier Di Maio (although, then, on Diciotti and the Sea Watch, instead, for Di Maio were well closed, but you can change your mind). [[Applause from Senator Begin.]] The directive is fundamental, says Salvini, and it also sends it to the Navy, so much as it considers it fundamental, even if the Navy depends on the Ministry of Defence; but Di Maio says that it is not with a directive that all migrants who could arrive stop. National interest should push the whole government to work alongside diplomats, military, intelligence (she recalled that they are on the ground, in Tripoli, in Benghazi, in Misurata), not to use state bodies instrumentally for campaign clashes. Ministers who do not speak, who cling to the newspapers; major states who are forced to reiterate that they cannot be pulled for the jacket anywhere and who respond to the law and the Constitution, as the bodies of the State must do. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What can the international community think that is looking at us and that really should have a fundamental reference point in Italy? What do the Libyans themselves think that Italy can be the country that can help them? I hope, then, and I would ask you to work in this direction: bring back the government's bar straight; the Libyan one is too important a matter. You said this: the offensive of Mr Haftar should not be endorsed; it should be avoided that the conflict should become a civil war, and that is why we give you full reason and support. We must try to restart the work that had been done by the UN to prepare the National Conference on Libya. The European Union and the United States must be more involved, and - please - we must keep this dossier away from the election campaign. On this front you will have our support because Italy on the Libyan issue must be united. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Monti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u109	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u110	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank our President-in-Office for his discussion today and for the action of this Government in the context of the Libyan crisis. I would like to remind you that the crisis in Libya did not begin this month nor did it start in 2018, but in 2011, for those guilty - in my opinion - of military initiatives of one European power, followed, unfortunately, by the others. This government has the merit of having drawn a line, which is that of realism, saying that the antechamber to the south of our country cannot be left passively to the actions of others. With balance, perseverance and patience, our Government managed to launch diplomatic action that led to the Palermo Conference at the end of last year. The attempt of Blitzkrieg by Haftar in the western part of the city of Tripoli did not go as hoped, having tried to alter the military manu - old political style of power - the framework of perspective of a diplomatic solution (the UN conference to bring to new elections the country was scheduled for the week following that of the attack). As I said, the Government had the merit of bringing Italy to the attention of the international scene as the protagonist of the politics of the southern Mediterranean. We have no longer passively accepted the flows of immigrants that were poured out by the international mafias on our coasts; we have no longer passively accepted the intervention of powers that qualify, in fact, as competitors or even opponents of our country, I repeat, at the southern antechamber of our borders. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The dangerous and delicate situation has already been declined by our President of the Council on the three aspects that we share: firstly, the protection of the infrastructure for oil and gas extraction destined for our country; in secundis - and only in order of exposure - the danger of an uncontrolled humanitarian crisis and also infiltrated by jihadist terrorist elements. In fact, if in northern Libya we fight, in the Saharan Region of Fezzan, Isis, Daesh and Al Qaeda have returned to operation trying to consolidate on a territorial level occupying small countries and villages, but that in an area with scarce communications are fundamental. To the danger of infiltrated terrorists arriving in Europe you can add the danger of destabilisation with a renewed Islamic State, this time in Libya, or a renewed Al Qaeda not in the caves of Afghanistan but in some remote oasis of the desert. I thank our President-in-Office for his action. I could ask to appeal to the European Union, but that makes me a little worried because, once again on the Libyan crisis, Europe has proved to be a "dis-Union" of Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In fact, if the Commission - by Commissioner Mogherini's mouth - says something, it is clear that the powers that make up Europe as powers behave and therefore it is not there that we could find support for a diplomatic solution and civilization for the Libyan people and for the stability of Italy and Europe. The United Nations remains: I expect a strong voice from Italy in all UN bodies, because it is the only way to reach a diplomatic solution; otherwise, we will not have the chance to count on the international scenario, but above all in the antechamber of our home. Another thing: stabilisation is important for the control of flows of immigrants. The identification centers must not be again placed in extra-libian territory: stabilisation is necessary for there to be control of these masses, among which there are no refugees, but economic migrants and above all, sometimes, not simple criminal migrants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giarrusso.]] Preserving national interests sometimes means going beyond national borders. I shall end by thanking you, Mr President-in-Office, for your support and trust in what you have done and what you will do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u111	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Libyan framework now gives us an increasingly disturbing scenario. At our borders there is a civil war that takes on itself international conflicts and contradictions, regional and financial religious, with a game all inside the Sunni world. The risk of Libya becoming a new Syria or a new Yemen, if not worse, is more than just a hypothesis. This, as we know, contributes to the irresponsibility of many internal and external actors. Moreover, the divisions within all international bodies, from the Security Council to the Arab League, through the European Union, say a great deal about this. We must know, however, that if there is no agreement between the powers in the field, there will be no solution. It is precisely the European field that interests us most, but let us not hide behind declarations of facade, hypocritical and useless: there is a conflict between us and France of a political, economic order and I would say also of a geopolitical vision of the Mediterranean. It is not new, of course, but we must tell the truth: if we do not do it and we use triumphalistic tones like in Palermo last November, where we already saw the Libyan crisis coming these days, since the military political operations of Haftar in the South of the country were already underway, we will hardly have a strong, clear and sustainable national position, not subject to the moods of the majority and political conflicts, which should never and never affect the foreign policy of a serious country. Someone calls this responsibility; my father called it national interest; I, more prosaically, call it seriousness. Having said that, we regret that the development of an Italian position on Libya does not escape, not the predictable clash between majority and parliamentary minority, but even the one within the majority and the government. In these days and hours you talk with more and too many voices: you do not understand who is running the foreign policy and what course or strategy you intend to follow. Believe me, it is certainly not the best way to win over the French - assuming that, as some of you think, it is a derby with the ultralp cousins - nor to find a solution. The conflict is more serious and wider: it is more serious, because our function is at stake in the Mediterranean, the only place to have an international geopolitical and geoeconomic projection; wider, because new alliances are being drawn on the Libyan game. Who are we with? In the state, we appear isolated: no European nation follows us; we invoke the help of the United States, but then we sign the memorandum with the Chinese and mess with Venezuela. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is true that someone in Libya plays under the banner of war, while publicly reciting the script of the good pacifist, but be careful not to let Italy interpret the part of the sorcerer apprentice. I do not understand, Mr. Conte, what a role you imagine for Italy in the Libyan conflict (and I say this with concern, without controversy). Are we a force of dialogue between the parties, as I think we should be, or partisans of one another who do not want to displease one another, getting the result of discontenting one another? We pull our jacket from Maitig, making us tell the columns of the newspapers what we must do; the same that in recent months has worked to weaken the already precarious al-Sarraj. Do we make ourselves dictated by the quartarini, becoming a sort of ally of the Muslim Brotherhood, or do we try to draw up and suggest an agenda for the truce? Do we want to stop arms supplies in Haftar or do we think we're gonna arm Tripoli under the table, as someone is rumoring? You talk a lot about strategies, but I can only see the big talk that comes with it. If anyone thinks that our interest is to make some agreement with some Libyan militia that runs in Italy cheaply, here, I think we would make the same mistakes again as the recent past. Then be careful to play with the fire. If, after this offensive of Haftar, your idea is to replace the weak al-Sarraj with some other exponent dear to us we would make a big mistake. Finally - and I conclude - attention to the terrorist threat. Both sides of Libya accuse each other of encouraging the return of a terrorist offensive, trying to discredit the other; but in this confrontation we are the real risk. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are serious people, we are not among those who support the foreigner for petty shop interests. You have a duty to unite Parliament and the country. If you take a serious and responsible path, in defence of the peace and stability of the area, which is seriously threatened, in defence of Italy's interests, on that road, Mr President, you will meet us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u113	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u114	Mr President, Mr Conte, the Italian Government, the European Union, the UN, the United States and Russia (I refer to all the main players in the international community), all of whom, albeit not with the same strength and conviction, have asked General Haftar to stop his military offensive immediately. These appeals remained unheard of. It is now clear that Haftar, rejecting the commitments previously made to promote a political process of reconciliation and national reunification, aims to conquer Tripoli by force, cutting down the Government of al-Sarraj recognized by the international community. Libya is sinking into a civil war that has already caused hundreds of deaths and thousands of displaced people; and so far it has been fought in sparsely populated areas and with limited use of aviation and heavy artillery. We all know that if the fighting does not stop and involve more densely populated urban areas and if more lethal weapons are put into action, the current emergency will turn into a humanitarian catastrophe of unimaginable proportions. From one day to the next we could find a new Syria on the doorstep, with a biblical exodus of hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing to the Mediterranean; and I assure you that, in such a scenario, no closed port or ministerial directive will be able to stop this flow. Then think of the other fundamental aspect in this circumstance, that of security. Terrorists belonging to the diverse galaxy of the region's radical groups in Libyan chaos would have more and more easy lives, enjoying an ideal environment to prosper the various illicit trafficking that is lifeblood to finance their activities. With this in mind, reorganising themselves, even in order to launch attacks on Europe, would be an extraordinarily simplified route for them. Not to mention the risk of losing access to energy resources of strategic importance also for our country. A catastrophic scenario, which must absolutely be avoided. Mr Conte, if the diplomatic and governmental talks you have just told us about do not succeed in stopping Haftar immediately, we will need to take more decisive action to impose respect for international law and the restoration of peace and security in Libya, actions that will necessarily have to involve the United Nations, the European Union, the African Union and the Arab League. The Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, in full respect of the prerogatives of the Government, hope that Italy will present as soon as possible to the UN Security Council a draft resolution that not only imposes an immediate ceasefire on the conflicting parties, but also approve the sending to Libya of blue helmets, a mission of peace - under Italian leadership and broad African and Arab participation - that will watch over the respect of the truce and facilitate national reconciliation. The alternative to an immediate cessation of hostilities in Libya, obtained today by negotiation or tomorrow with the sending of blue helmets, is a war with catastrophic results, not only for the Libyan people, but also for our country and for the whole of Europe. In this case, in order to avoid a massacre of civilians under the bombs in Tripoli or on boats fleeing from the coasts of Tripolitania and to prevent Italy once again from facing a situation that would be unmanageable and potentially explosive, a humanitarian corridor, indeed, European, indeed, international, will be indispensable. We need a major humanitarian relief operation involving the UN, the European Union, the United States, the African Union, the Arab League and Russia to activate from the Libyan coasts an air and naval bridge that allows to bring to safety Libyan refugees in all European countries, no one excluded, as well as in all African and Arab countries able to guarantee shelter even a small fraction of Libyan citizens. If the international community is unable to prevent Libya from sinking into chaos, it will at least have to bear the humanitarian consequences of its failure. This failure cannot be attributable to the Italian Government, which is making every effort to save Libya and remedy the mistakes of other countries and previous governments. President, thank you for what you are doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u115	I inform you that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 32 of 18 April 2019 laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the public contracts sector, for the acceleration of infrastructure interventions, urban regeneration and reconstruction following seismic events.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u116	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 27 of 29 March 2019 laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the agricultural sectors in crisis and for support to agri-food companies affected by adverse weather events of an exceptional nature and for the emergency in the Stoppani plant, located in the Municipality of Cogoleto (1249). Before finishing the session, I would like to take this opportunity to express to all those present, senators, senators, government representatives and their families the best and most warmest wishes for Easter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u117	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-110.ana.u118	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 29 April, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.14 a.m.
