ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1248.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u7	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business simply to reiterate - as President Marcucci did at the Conference of Group Leaders on Tuesday morning - that we want guarantees in relation to how they can continue their work. I am referring, in particular, to the imaginative amendments by the rapporteur and the Government, which have been mentioned for several days and which, to date, have not yet been seen by the parliamentary groups. Therefore, we do not know exactly what stage they have reached. Of course, we were hoping to be able to discuss the measure in its entirety - including the stage of the general discussion - in this House (which has the right to do so) since it could be significantly modified by these additional amendments. This is not possible and, of course, we ask you to ensure that the Government and the rapporteurs proceed as soon as possible to put us in a position to examine the new amendments, evaluating their importance in the course of the work, especially with regard to the appropriate time to submit them, which is exactly the request made by President Marcucci. I would add that, given the government's impasse, which has been evident for many hours now, and since we believe that this measure does not unlock a construction site and is only a damage to Italy, this delay can perhaps also be the occasion for a rethinking, as well as to withdraw it and re-present it in a more serious way in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u8	Senator Ferrari, as you know, at the Conference of Leaders, however, it was decided to proceed pending the submission of further amendments. In any case, it is the Presidency's concern to put this House in a position to debate and decide with knowledge. So now we are going to proceed with the rapporteurs' reports and we are going to update ourselves during the sitting, moving forward in the work, of course with the concern you have highlighted, given that there are no other requests, including from the Democratic Group. The rapporteurs, Senators Santillo and Faggi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Santillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Decree-Law No 32 of 18 April 2019 comes to the Chamber after a lengthy investigation into the Commissions of public works and the environment. The amendments adopted during the examination in the Commissions have expanded the content of the measure, bringing considerable improvements to the text, aimed mainly at providing for the introduction of simplifications for businesses and ensuring greater protection for citizens, territory and the environment. Allow me to thank the majority and opposition senators, with whom we have carried out a constructive discussion which has enabled the decree-law to come to this House today. It is also necessary to extend special thanks to the offices of the Commissions meeting 8th and 13th for the valuable support they have provided during these complex days, in particular to Doctors Marci and Cavallucci. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Coming to the contents, the decree-law in question contains urgent provisions for the relaunch of the sector of public contracts, for the acceleration of infrastructure interventions, urban regeneration and reconstruction following seismic events; it consists of thirty articles, but there are also six new articles introduced during the examination in the Commissions, divided into three chapters. The Chief I have rules on public contracts, acceleration of infrastructure interventions and urban regeneration. Chapter II contains provisions on seismic events of the Molise Region and the Ethnea area. Chapter III contains provisions on the seismic events of Abruzzo in 2009, Central Italy in 2016 and 2017 and in the municipalities of Casamicciola Terme and Lacco Ameno on the island of Ischia in 2017. Article 1, the subject of several amendments that I will detail later, brings many innovations to the Code of Public Contracts, aimed in part to simplify the award procedures, receiving some indications emerged in the course of the public consultation carried out in autumn by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and in the context of the cognitive investigation carried out by the 8th Commission, and in part to allow the overcoming of the infringement procedure n. 2018/2273, initiated by the European Commission for the non-compliance of some provisions of the Italian Code with the 2014 European directives on contracts and concessions. In particular, paragraph 1 re-introduces the single regulation with provisions for the execution, implementation and integration of the code, to be adopted within one hundred and eighty days by decree of the President of the Republic; authorizes the contracting stations to entrust on the basis of the definitive plan, instead of the executive one, all the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance operations, with the exclusion of the extraordinary maintenance operations that provide for the renewal or the replacement of structural parts of the works or plants; provides that for the public works above threshold the feasibility project is always preceded by the document of feasibility of the alternative projects, while under threshold it is faculty of the contracting station to require the drafting. With two amendments approved by the Commissions (amendments 1.11 (text 2) and 1.40 (text 2)) it has been foreseen that the technical and economic feasibility project should identify, among other solutions, the one that presents - in addition to the best relationship between costs and benefits for the community - also the least possible land consumption and that the feasibility study should be prepared on the basis, inter alia, of checks on the possibility of reuse of the existing real estate and the regeneration of the disused areas. The Commissions then abolished the period introduced by the Decree-Law to Article 24 of the Code of Public Contracts, under which the assignees of design assignments for projects placed on the basis of tenders can be entrusted with public works concessions provided that the grantor takes appropriate measures to ensure that competition is not distorted by their participation, while limiting, with the approval of amendment 1.98, the discipline of the criteria of energy and environmental sustainability to the assignments of amounts equal to or greater than the Community thresholds The decree, by letter b), introduces the possibility that the assignees of design assignments for projects placed on the basis of competition can be entrusted with the concessions of public works, but condition this possibility to the fact that the grantor takes appropriate measures to ensure that the competition is not distorted by their participation. The rules governing the calculation of the estimated value of contracts awarded in respect of separate lots shall also be amended in order to provide that, in such cases, the total estimated value of all lots shall be taken into account. Provision shall be made to extend the forecast of the price to be paid to the contractor also to the services and supplies (letter (e), number 3)). In addition, the rules governing contracts under threshold (letter (f)) are amended, on which the Commissions have taken action with further amendments, in particular by providing for direct custody after consultation of at least three economic operators (for works) or five economic operators (for services and supplies). The negotiated procedure is foreseen for work between EUR 150 000 and EUR 350 000 after consultation of at least ten operators; for work between EUR 350 000 and EUR 1 million the negotiated procedure after consultation of at least 15 operators; for work more than EUR 1 million and the Community threshold the open procedure is foreseen. The Decree-Law also provides that contracting stations may always decide, provided that it is provided for in the notice in which the invitation to tender is made, that tenders are examined before the verification of the documentation relating to the fulfilment of the general requirements and those of suitability and capacity of the tenderers. The Joint Commissions have made it clear that contracting stations which make use of this option must carry out such verification before the final award. The decree-law also makes optional for municipalities not the capital of Province the use of central purchasing bodies, aggregate subjects, unions of Municipalities or the single purchasing station constituted in the Provinces, metropolitan cities or entities of wide area, authorising them to proceed directly and independently (letter g). The Commissions together, through the approval of amendment 1,233 (text 2), then provided for the inclusion of archaeologists among the subjects eligible to participate in the procedures for relying on services related to architecture and engineering. The measure, in point (h), establishes the modification of the requirements for the participation in the invitations to tender by consortia, providing that stable consortia perform the performance with their own structure or through the consortia indicated in the tender, without this constituting subcontracting. In the case of an integrated contract, the decree provides that the minimum requirements for the performance of the design covered by the contract must be laid down in the procurement documents in accordance with the Code and the Implementing Regulation. These requirements must be met by the undertakings certified for construction-only performance through a designer grouped together or indicated in the tender, able to demonstrate them. Companies certified for design and construction performance must instead document the requirements for the performance of the executive design, where such requirements are not demonstrated by their design staff. It is also provided for in point (m) that, in the event of failure or insufficient availability of experts registered in the ordinary section of the National Register of Selection Boards, the Board shall be appointed, even partially, by the contracting station, taking into account the specific characteristics of the contract to be entrusted and the related competences. The following point (n) amends the rules governing the grounds for exclusion from participation in the invitation to tender. The Commissions have provided for the abolition of the possibility of the economic operator being excluded from participation in the invitation to tender if the contracting authority can adequately demonstrate that the contracting authority has not complied with the obligations relating to the payment of taxes or social security contributions which have not been definitively established. The Commissions also amended Article 83 of the Code on selection criteria, providing that the general and special requirements set out in that Article should be held by competitors until the conclusion of the tendering procedure. The decree, in point p), also clarifies that the activity of attestation carried out by the bodies SOA must be exercised in compliance with the principle of independence of judgment. The bodies issuing the SOA shall perform publicist functions. The period of documentable activity is extended from ten to fifteen years, in order to take into account the economic crisis that has led to the impossibility for some companies to certify works in the last ten years for the amounts provided for in current legislation. The Joint Commissions have established that, for the purpose of proving the absence of grounds for exclusion for the economic operator participating in the procedure, for the entities from which the economic operator makes use, as well as for subcontractors, certificates and other documents shall last six months from the date of issue. The Decree-Law, in letter s), then made some changes to the discipline of the criteria for the award of the contract providing, among other things, that they are awarded exclusively on the basis of the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer the contracts of services and supplies of amount equal to or greater than 40.000 euros and characterized from remarkable technological content or that they have an innovative character. On the point of the award criteria, the Commissions have provided for the re-introduction of the 30% ceiling for the economic score for the purpose of identifying the value for money, of which the decree-law has stated the elimination. An amendment approved by the Joint Commissions also provides that, in the economic offer, they must in any case be considered to include labour costs and company charges relating to the fulfilment of the health and safety provisions in the workplace of the economic operator and that the contracting stations, in respect of labour costs, shall verify before the award that the provisions of Article 97 (5) (d) have been complied with. The provisions of point (t) shall also provide for the rules for the calculation of the anomaly threshold, replacing the five alternative methods set out in the Code so far by a single calculation system, in which certain variables are introduced. With regard to the sub-contracting rules, the Commissions have provided that the contracting authority may decide in the notice that the subcontractable works may reach 40% of the total amount of works, services or supplies (while the decree-law had raised this percentage from 30 to 50%), and have provided for the re-introduction of the prohibition to entrust the subcontracting to those who have already participated in the procedure for the award of the contract, of which the decree-law had instead ordered the elimination. The removal of the obligation to indicate the tern of subcontractors in the tender and the extension of the direct payment to all cases where this is required by the subcontractor shall remain firm. The Commissions have also reported the 2 percent incentive to the purposes originally provided by the Public Contract Code, eliminating the incentive for the design activities reintroduced by the Decree-Law. It is also planned to extend to 31 December 2019 the period within which existing concessions will adapt to the obligation to entrust 80% of contracts for works, services and supplies by means of a public evidence procedure. It also provides for the extension of the list of entities that may submit proposals for public-private partnerships to the contracting stations in accordance with the first period of Article 183 (15) of the Code of Public Contracts, including institutional investors. The following letter (gg) provides for the elimination of the national register of persons who may hold the roles of director of works and tester in public works contracts awarded with the general contractor's formula. The rules governing the qualification of the general contractor to the implementing regulation are laid down, eliminating the provision that the certification of the fulfilment of the requirements of the general contractor was carried out through SOA, and providing for the establishment of the qualification system of the general contractor, managed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Point 6 (mm), extends further and extends the scope of the transitional provision allowing motorway dealers to start tendering procedures for the granting of the concession even on the basis of the only requirements established by the grantor, limited to the measures to secure the existing infrastructure. Pursuant to paragraph 3, the amendments referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to procedures whose notices are published after the date of entry into force of the decree-law in question. An amendment approved by the Joint Commissions provides that, in the case of direct custody, the amendments made by the Decree-Law under consideration to the Code of Public Contracts will apply if, on the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law itself, the design of the work has not yet been started. The Joint Commissions have also postponed the time limits for the start of the execution of the works for the municipalities benefiting from the contributions provided for in the 2019 Budget Law for the safety of schools, roads, public buildings and municipal buildings that have started the design for the realization of the investments but have not yet started the execution of the works. Paragraphs 4 and 5 amend the rules on the abbreviated procedure for contracts provided for in Article 120 of the Administrative Process Code. Article 2 lays down provisions on custody procedures in the event of a crisis, aimed at eliminating problems of coordination between the public contract code and bankruptcy law and at strengthening the incentive towards the company temporarily in difficulty, which has already characterised recent interventions in the field of bankruptcy law. Article 3 lays down provisions on the simplification of construction, with particular reference to the regulation of infrastructure interventions in seismic zones. Firstly, it makes a number of amendments - aimed at simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucratic burdens - to Article 65 of the single building text, in relation to the denunciation of the construction work and the report on the completed structure of reinforced, normal and pre-stressed conglomerate works and to Article 67 on static testing. The amendments approved by the Joint Commissions provide that the Ministry of Infrastructure may authorise laboratories other than those listed in Article 59 of the single text of the building to carry out tests and controls on building materials on existing structures and buildings; they provide for communications between manufacturers and one-stop shops to be carried out by certified e-mail and, finally, they introduce a time limit within which the Minister of Infrastructure must define the guidelines for the identification, from a structural point of view, of the relevant interventions, of minor importance and of no relevance, as well as the substantial variations for which the notice referred to in Article 93 is not necessary. The last article of which I am rapporteur, on 4, provides that, in the case of infrastructure operations considered to be priority, the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, and after consulting the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, shall have the appointment of one or more special commissioners. Extraordinary Commissioners, who are responsible for any determination necessary for the start or the continuation of the work, shall ensure that projects not yet contracted are redesigned and approved, working in conjunction with interregional authorities on public works. Extraordinary Commissioners may be authorised to assume directly the functions of contracting station and act as a derogation from the statutory provisions on public contracts, subject to compliance with the provisions of the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws and the prevention measures and mandatory constraints arising from membership of the European Union. They also work in conjunction with Investitalia, the mission structure to support the activities of the President of the Council of Ministers on the coordination of government policies and the political and administrative direction of Ministers in the field of public and private investment, the institution of which is provided for by the Budget Law for 2019. Paragraph 6 provides for the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner in charge of overseeing the programming, design, custody and execution of the interventions on the road network of the Sicilian Region. Paragraph 7 states that the infrastructure programmes "6000 bell towers" and "New intervention projects" have been completed. The resulting economies are allocated to a new program of infrastructural interventions for the small municipalities up to 3,500 inhabitants. The paragraphs 8 to 12 govern the realization and completion of the works in the areas of the Campania and Basilicata Regions affected by the seismic events of November 1980 and February 1981, following the cessation of the commissionerial management. In particular, the Campania Region is entrusted with the completion of the fast-scrolling road Lioni-Grottaminerda. The implementation of the completion interventions will be examined by a special supervisory committee, established by decree of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development. The Joint Commissions have extended to the contributions, to be allocated to the Municipalities for the year 2020 for interventions related to public works to secure buildings and the territory provided for by the Budget Law for 2018, the allocation procedures provided for the similar contributions allocated by the Budget Law for 2019. With reference to the contributions to the Municipalities provided for by the Stability Act for 2018, the Commissions have then provided that, in the event of non-compliance with the terms and conditions provided for therein, the Ministry of the Interior does not proceed to the recovery of the contribution in cases where the non-compliance with the terms has been determined by the establishment of a dispute in relation to the procedure put in place by the Municipality. For contributions allocated for the year 2018, recovery shall not apply to institutions benefiting from the same contribution which have put in place, within the time limits laid down, the activities prior to the assignment of the work detectable through the monitoring system, provided that the custody takes place by 31 December 2019. Mr President, in view of the vastness of the matter and the narrowness of the time, I reserve the right to submit a more detailed report to the documents. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u10	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u11	Mr President, before I start my speech, I too would like to join in the words of thanks from my colleague, Mr Santillo, and first of all I would like to address them to him with whom I have had the opportunity to work in a fruitful way, to all the offices, both the Senate and the Ministry. I would like to thank Mr Rixi for the technical and political support he has given these days, and also Mr Toninelli, as well as Mr Crimi and Mr Santangelo, undersecretaries. During the 18th legislature, a series of legislative measures were put in place to assist the territories of the country affected by the seismic events of recent years. These are the decrees-laws no. 55, 91 and 109 of 2018 and Decree-Law No 32 of 2019, as well as the Budget Act 2019 (Law No 145 of 2018). About 50% of these resources (i.e. EUR 700 million) were allocated in 2019, while for the year 2020 some EUR 238 million were granted, or around 18% of the total resources allocated. New resources for the 2018 financial year amounted to around 185 million euros, equivalent to 14% of the total resources foreseen for the 2018-2023 period. Finally, in the three-year period 2001-2023, some EUR 220 million were allocated, with resources being allocated gradually decreasing as the end year of the period considered approaches. Overall, the new resources allocated amounted to around 1.35 billion for the period 2018-2023. Finally, it should be noted that, with the 2019 Budget Act, some 360 million funds have been allocated in favour not of specific seismic events, but more generally for national emergencies and disasters. Coming instead to the articles of Decree-Law No. 32 of 2019 to be converted, we are also talking about reconstruction following seismic events and urban regeneration. Article 5 of the Decree-Law contains rules on urban regeneration; in particular, it provides that the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces must adopt derogations from Ministerial Decree No. 1444 of 1968 on urban planning standards, as well as provisions on the spaces to be allocated to residential, productive settlements, those reserved for collective activities, greenery and parking spaces, within the framework of the definition or revision of urban planning tools that are nevertheless functional to an overall and unitary aspect, or specific territorial areas. This is in order to guide the municipalities in the definition of the limits of building density, height and distance of buildings in established urban areas. The article also provides that, in any case of demolition and reconstruction, the latter is still allowed in respect of the legitimately pre-existing distances, provided that it is carried out ensuring the coincidence of the area of sediment and the volume of the building reconstructed with the one demolished within the limits of the maximum height of the latter. The provisions aimed at facilitating the reconstruction in the municipalities of the Molise Region and the Etna area listed in Annex 1 to the Decree-Law, contained in Chapter II, Articles 6 to 20, generally provide for the appointment, in each of the two geographical areas, of an extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction, which lasts until 31 December 2021 and operates under the competences and functions assigned in full administrative, financial and accounting autonomy, using a structure placed at its direct dependence. In Article 6, the Joint Commissions approved an amendment requiring the plans drawn up by the Commissioners to be aimed, in addition to the transformation and possibly urban relocation, also at the repair and reconstruction of private and public buildings. In Article 18 some changes have been made to the structure of Commissioners, providing that, in the event of absence or temporary impediment, the duties of the commissioner are exercised by the manager in service at the structure, which only ensures the completion of acts of ordinary administration; that the structure ceases not on the date of expiry of the commission of the commissioner (as provided for in the decree-law), but on the date of expiry of the extraordinary management, scheduled for 31 December 2021; that the operating expenses of the commissioner structures other than those indicated in the preceding paragraphs of Article 18 shall be provided at the maximum limit of 45,000 euros for the year 2019, € 90,000 for the year 2020 and € 90,000 for the year 2021. The Commissions have provided for the inclusion in Article 7 of the above-mentioned functions of assistance in support of undertakings located in the territories concerned, as well as the recovery of the socio-economic fabric of the areas affected by seismic events. It has also been foreseen that the microzonation plan, which the commissioners must prepare in agreement with the Civil Protection Department, should be limited to the municipalities listed in Annex 2 for which no measures have already been taken to grant contributions for the adoption of the same instruments. Finally, the Commissioners were authorised to use Invitalia in the performance of their duties. For the implementation of the interventions of immediate necessity, the measure has set up a dedicated reconstruction fund, with an initial allocation of EUR 275 million for the five-year period 2019-2023, to be allocated to the special accounts in the name of the two extraordinary Commissioners, according to the breakdown indicated in the measure. With particular reference to private reconstruction, the provisions of the Decree-Law provide first of all for the granting of contributions for the reconstruction and restoration of private buildings destroyed or damaged, according to priorities established by the Commissioners on the basis of the extent of the damage suffered. They shall specify the types of intervention, damage and buildings eligible for financing, which may cover 100% of the expenditure, identifying the beneficiaries and governing the procedure for requesting and granting assistance; this in Articles 9, 10 and 12. I try to shorten, because I understand that time is short. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He still has a minute and a half as usual, but he can also pass. Please, Senator Faggi, I'll let you know. FAGGI, rapporteur. Then, if I may, I would pass directly to the parts that have been modified, skipping those in which the text of the decree-law remained unchanged. Therefore, if the Senators concerned follow, they may know which parties have been modified. Senator Faggi, I would remind you that you can also attach the remainder of the written report. FAGGI, rapporteur. Thank you, President. The Joined Commissions have extended the prohibition of granting contributions, already provided for in the decree-law in the case of damaged buildings subject to demolition or restoration order given by the criminal court, to cases in which the order for demolition or restoration has been given by the administrative authority. They have also ordered that - for the interventions on buildings of historical and artistic interest - the application for the grant of contributions must be attached the documentation attesting the possession, by the entrusted undertaking of the works, of technical skills commensurate with the type of building and the type of intervention. The Joint Commissions have provided that, in order to implement the planning of public reconstruction operations, Commissioners are allowed to provide directly for interventions for which the owner institution has not expressed its willingness to perform the functions of actuator and that Commissioners acquire the necessary opinions and no obstacles from the competent bodies, including through a dedicated conference of services for the evaluation of the projects submitted by the implementing entities. The Commissions have established that the tasks of design and management of the works for the reconstruction or repair and restoration of damaged buildings can be entrusted by the private individuals to persons who are in possession of adequate levels of reliability and professionalism and who are not in conditions hindering the release of the DURC. They have also introduced the direct assignment of design and architectural and engineering services and other technical services and for the elaboration of urban planning and planning acts in accordance with the guidelines defined by the Extraordinary Commissioner for amounts up to EUR 40,000. Above EUR 40,000, the negotiated procedure remains, after consultation with ten parties (depending that they must be not generically professionals, but subjects referred to in Article 46 of the Code of Public Contracts), but the use of the lower price criterion is eliminated. With the exception of particular and proven reasons related to the specific type and size of the intervention, contracting stations shall entrust the drawing up of the design to the executive level. The Commissions have doubled the extraordinary contribution to the Municipality of L'Aquila, providing not only 10 million for 2019, but also for 2020 [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] ; deferred from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2019 the period until which natural persons resident or domiciled and legal persons having their registered office or office in the municipalities affected by the earthquake of Central Italy are exempted from payment of stamp tax and registration tax for applications, contracts and documents submitted by the public administration. The Joint Commissions have recognised to the Extraordinary Commissioner and to the experts the travel, food and accommodation costs related to their activities in the overall limit of 80,000 euros for 2019 and of 80,000 euros for 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u12	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u13	FAGGI, rapporteur. The Commissions have specified that, in case the subjects hired by the Municipalities for the special offices for the reconstruction are professionals, a declaration of non-registration, or suspension, is necessary from the special list of professionals to which can be assigned assignments of design and direction of the intense activities. The investigation for the release of the concessions of contribution and of all the consequent obligations, which can be handled by the Municipalities, in agreement with the special office for the reconstruction, not only for private buildings that are classified inaccessible with outcome B or C, as provided for by the decree-law, but also E, limited to the operating level L4. In municipalities with more than 50 percent of buildings declared unactible with success And there are municipal authorization and a whole series of urban and building facilities that concern both private and real estate reconstruction. Finally, it is recalled that the Commissions have provided for the establishment of two funds aimed at providing the financial resources needed for the installation of closed circuit video surveillance systems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] in schools and socio-health and social assistance facilities for the elderly and persons with disabilities, whether residential, semi-residual or day-to-day, in order to ensure the widest possible protection for children, in education services for children and in public and peer-to-peer nursery schools, as well as for those hosted in the above-mentioned facilities. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u14	Minority speakers, Senators D'Arienzo and Ferrazzi, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u15	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, although some of the amendments to the Procurement Code are, as you know, a consequence of the infringement procedure that came from the European Commission, because of discrepancies with the directive... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u17	Excuse me a moment, Senator: I would ask colleagues to leave the government stand free so that their representatives can follow the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u18	D'ARIENZO, minority rapporteur. Mr President, I was saying that, despite part of the incipit of the measure under consideration, we regard very negatively relevant parts of the proposal that you have provided with this decree-law. For us, the lack of answers to the various issues that have emerged, both in the very long survey we have carried out as a Commission of merit and in the hearings we have conducted, are more than obvious. I believe that there have never been any measures which have received the opposition of such a large number of stakeholders, who are protagonists in this area. In practice, it has been clear to all - and we first of all - the dual will, on the one hand, to tacitize the National Anti-Corruption Authority, marginalizing and compressing the principle of legality, and, on the other hand, to return to the old system of the lowest price, overcoming the principle of competition for and between companies. It is a combination which, in our opinion, will unlock absolutely nothing, because it has not dealt with the real nodes of the procurement code. We are convinced that the multiplication of the instability of the rules, the continuous change of the norms, just when the code of the contracts by now is coming into force and producing results (like an increase of 30% of the contests banned in 2018), and therefore the making changes while everything is being consolidated, do not bring anything good; indeed, the code loses the unity of the disciplined matter and, from what we have seen, will certainly add other problems. For reasons of time, on the merits I highlight only some points that we have not absolutely shared: the abolition of the guidelines of the National Anti-corruption Authority, the ANAC; we believe that the government regulation that must be issued will not have the same cultural value as the guidelines; the negative confirmation of the limit of 150,000 euros as the maximum threshold so far foreseen for negotiated procedures; the return to the mechanism of the lowest price, moreover integrated with an abstruse calculation of the exclusion thresholds, that certainly will facilitate the rebirth of the cartels between entrepreneurs for the award of the races, which we had tried to avoid with the code of contracts. In addition, we believe that the application of the energy sustainability criteria is very negative only in relation to trusts exceeding the thresholds laid down by the European Union, and the multiplication of purchasing power stations, i.e. procurement stations. The same applies to the cancellation of the ban on subcontracting to undertakings participating in the same invitation to tender - which could favour the famous cartels - and the re-introduction of extraordinary government commissioners for infrastructure operations considered priority, even with the possibility of derogation from the rules in force. I have mentioned only a few aspects on which our opposition has been expressed. By also accepting the demands of our many local administrators, we have participated constructively in the evaluation of the measure, as was acknowledged earlier by the rapporteur, Mr Santillo. With our proposals we have tried to improve the text and to contain some amendments which we have considered to be negative. Our amendments have a set of objectives such as speeding up procedures in legality, facilitating the work of contracting stations and protecting them and correcting parts of the code that have proved to be difficult to operate. Among the proposals that we have put forward, we consider the one that has been approved to be important. I refer to that of my colleague, Mr Mirabelli, in relation to the integrated contract and, in particular, to the deletion of the rule which, as you know, provided for the possibility for those entrusted with the granting of public works to be entrusted with the projects put to tender. Of our proposals that we submit to the House's assessment, I quote a few of them. We call for, for example, to restore the EUR 40,000 threshold beyond which to apply the negotiated procedure to the trusts. With the budget law it was raised to 150,000 euros. With regard to the verification of the requirements, after the analysis of the tenders, we call for them to be restored to the successful tenderer by the contracting stations that we have used the negotiating procedure. As far as subcontracting is concerned, we ask that those who took part in the competition should not be allowed to carry out the work as subcontractors. It is clear that this proposal will allow agreements between companies during the races to take place in a negative way, in our view. On the merits of anonymous offers, we propose to remove the new calculation criteria, which in fact bring back to predetermined award mechanisms and, therefore, to restore what was previously foreseen because it worked. On the procurement criteria, since you have removed the 30% percentage for the economic score for the most economically advantageous bids, we ask that the price score should not affect all other characteristics in a dominant way. In order to qualify contracting stations, we have amendments that aim to reduce the number of contracting stations, also allowing municipalities not the capital to activate them exclusively in the presence of personnel who are properly trained. In fact, over the years, we have noticed, that this was one of the problems especially for the smaller municipalities. On the controls, the execution and the testing, we propose the restoration of the figures of the director of the works and the public testing in the general contractor, which we have no longer found in your proposal. On the extraordinary commissioners for priority works, as already noted in the so-called objective law of the past, we ask to establish accelerated and simplified procedures precisely for the great works that can put at risk, if poorly designed or poorly realized, the outcome of these assignments. Of absolute importance is also our proposal - which has been approved, moreover, by my colleague Margiotta - regarding the need for Commissioners to ensure reconstruction through specific plans for the repair and reconstruction of damaged buildings and not only through plans for urban transformation and relocation. As for seismic events, we have long considered how to make sure that work, reconstruction and funding can be speeded up as much as possible. For seismic events in Molise and the Etna area, there are amendments calling for private buildings destroyed or damaged to be repaired or rebuilt by guaranteeing those entitled to 100% coverage of the damage suffered. In relation to the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009 and the earthquake in central Italy in 2016, as also requested by the regions concerned, we ask: to increase the staff for the special offices for reconstruction; to grant further simplifications; a greater increase in resources compared to those mentioned by the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi. For the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna of 2012 we ask for the further extension of the state of emergency until December 31, 2022; additional assumptions; the exemption of the payment of the IMU on inaccessible properties. On the collapse of the Morandi bridge, we ask: the increase of the resources for the refreshment of the damages suffered by the citizens in the areas of yard; the recalculation of the times in order to estimate the reduction of the turnover of the enterprises for having refreshment and the reimbursement of the greater expenses incurred for the transports also for enterprises and free professionals. I'm closing on Radical Radio. We've requested an extension of another six months of the conventional regime on Radical Radio. We want to serve democracy through the dissemination of information necessary for the formation of consciences and the conviction of Italians. To turn off a vocabulary so detailed, very followed and unique in its kind for constancy and direct insights, would be a danger for all those who care about knowledge and freedom, principles for which - as is known - many Italians before us have granted their lives to obtain them. This is, in summary, the package of proposals that we submit to the House's assessment in the hope that, although we have done our part, it will be able to share them, in order to improve a measure that - I repeat - although largely correct, as it is, does not fully satisfy us. It was difficult to do such an operation, but this is the outcome of the measure at our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrazzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u19	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, this measure in the title highlights an urgency, that of choosing and then properly giving rise to infrastructure works important for our country; it also highlights the urgency to intervene on our cities against urban degradation, as well as to intervene to overcome once and for all the state sometimes of abandonment of the areas affected by the earthquake and those related to the shameful disaster of Genoa. There is a "but" because we have become accustomed in this year of government-no government of this majority to have measures in which the title, or the communicative summary of the title, tells exactly the opposite of the content. A long series of names could be made here: just think of the decree of dignity and what it has instead involved; it was the decree-law that had to abolish in a single stroke poverty in our country, but we have seen instead that it has increased. We can then go through all the measures of these years to arrive at today's measure, which the majority wanted to call unblock yards. In fact, we will demonstrate in the course of this day's debate and tomorrow's votes with the tabling of amendments that this is a decree blocks yards. Colleagues, during the weeks of work and the days of hearings we were able to see plastically how this measure discontented everyone: from the ANCE, i.e. the manufacturers, to the environmental associations, from Confindustria to the unions, from DAC to the Court of Auditors. It is a measure that does not modify at all the possibility, in our country, to do what would be necessary to do, and neither the speed of realization of works, large or small, of works of ordinary maintenance and works of extraordinary maintenance and targeted. It is a measure that seeks - and this is the political node - to overcome the political inability of this Government, and in particular of Minister Toninelli, through a modification of the contract code. [[Applause from Senator Parente]] But it is not with a modification of the procedures that is compensated for the political inability to govern and decide. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a need for a Commissioner in this measure, that means that we need to support a Commissioner in Toninelli, because that is the real problem. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is the political and administrative crux. We must be Commissioner Toninelli, that is the truth, because by commissioning Toninelli probably fundamental works, even small ones, of ordinary maintenance, can be done without babbling only as the Minister has been doing for years. Colleagues, it must also be said that this change to the code of procurement is an embarrassment to the system of decisions, because there is a problem of timing, there is a problem of harmonization, but also of communication and organization. You've changed the procurement code four times in just a few months. This is the fifth change in a few months of government. You amended it with the so-called simplification decree in December 2018, you amended it a few weeks later with the budget law, again in December 2018. Shortly before, in October, with the so-called security decree you had done the same as in September with the so-called Genoa decree and then, with the discussion in October, you proceeded to modify it again. This - everyone has said it - clearly leads to decision-making and harmonization times that will lengthen for years and will entangle the work of those who must unlock the works in our country. Let us now turn to the other central issue, namely the question of cities and suburbs. This majority speaks of peripheries, it rightly speaks of degraded areas, because it is so, in all cities there are areas in deep degradation, which are no longer peripheral from a topographic point of view, but from a sociological and cultural point of view. The outskirts have now also entered the historic centers and urban centers. That's the truth. Therefore, a real structural investment plan for our cities is absolutely necessary because through the development of our cities passes the improvement of the quality of life and economic growth of the whole country. You, ladies and gentlemen, are presenting Article 5, which should finally restart the regeneration and transformation of our cities. Please note that in paragraph 1 of Article 5 that you present, you define bold objectives and that we share until the last letter. In fact, you say that it is necessary to drastically reduce the consumption of the soil, to promote the regeneration of the existing building stock, to facilitate the redevelopment of the degraded areas, to facilitate the redevelopment of the abandoned buildings or in the process of disposal, to facilitate relocation, to promote the development of energy efficiency, to promote the development of renewable sources, to ensure seismic adaptation also with demolition and reconstruction. Well, then let's keep reading the article to see how you want to achieve these basic goals. And then we discover that, with a subsequent paragraph, we modify the provision according to which the Regions may provide for derogations from Ministerial Decree of 2 April 1968, n. 1444, establishing that the Regions introduce derogations. Colleagues, it's nothing, absolutely nothing. Among other things, Ministerial Decree No 1444 does not mention urban regeneration and none of the themes mentioned in the title of the measure. Evidently, because of the political battle within you you have not been able to put anything into it. It is established that the Regions introduce derogations, but with what content and addresses and within what time limits? And if they don't, what are the sanctions? The nothingness of nothingness. On the cities you are only chatting - this is - while the theme would require a real structured intervention. We have tabled specific amendments which, analytically and profoundly, change existing regulations, from the reference urban law, which dates back to 1942, to the law of application (which dates back to 1968 which defines heights, volumes, distances and urban density), to all tax levers and so on. We propose an organic intervention, so that - finally - in our country we can really do the good of the cities, the suburbs and our citizens. Colleagues, there are cities that live in great paradoxes and it is therefore serious that you do nothing in this direction. Today, while occupying 30 hectares of virgin land, we abandon in the historical and urban centers what urban planners call brownfields, that is the already occupied and disused areas that we do not know how to regenerate. We abandon and create black holes in historic and urban centers and, since we don't know what to do with them, we build outside by occupying virgin soil. We continue with an expansive urban policy when 80% of our country's residential buildings are of the worst energy class (i.e. the G). And you do nothing with the measure under consideration, which also possesses this in the title. We need a great public direction, a great plan for cities, a national plan and an agenda for the city placed at the heart of the government's action. The public direction must then descend to the local level, because the design of the cities must pass through the discussion and public participation, the address of the municipal councils and - then - the ability to involve the private. In fact, all over the world, urban regeneration is only done if there is the ability to have public funding alongside private ones. Those who say otherwise don't know what they're talking about. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this measure, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow we will examine the amendments that we have tabled, which contain ad hoc proposals. Let me turn to the last question, Mr President. As the rapporteur has already said very well, the intervention in the field of earthquakes is absolutely minority and contains secondary measures. We are, at least, taking good will and, through the introduction of a number of amendments, trying to make them more effective in favour of the municipalities, the cities affected, the economic and productive categories and, above all, the citizens. Here are the rules on personnel and simplification for reconstruction, in favour of workers and enterprises (this is with reference to the areas of central Italy affected by the earthquake of 2016, to Molise and the ethnic area and to all the Regions that you want to insert in the measure). The same is true of the Genoa issue. It is not possible, in this country, to continue to have the utmost political and administrative attention only when there are headlights of public opinion. It is not that the problems of Genoa, after the disaster, are overcome with a magic wand stroke. We must constantly follow them and the government must do so every day. The amendments we have tabled, in particular Senator Pinotti, go in the direction of supporting administrations, businesses, professionals and, above all, the citizens of that area. [[Applause from Senator D'Arienzo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u20	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Astorre to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u21	Mr President, given that there are considerable doubts as to the constitutional legitimacy of the measure under consideration, we note that the decree-law provides for the multiplication, at the discretion of the Commission, of extraordinary commissioners with powers in derogation from ordinary legislation and the same code of procurement. It is a model very similar to that of Civil Protection during the Berlusconi Governments, even strengthened, which, due to the indeterminate nature of the rules derogating from the ordinary law contained in the decree, is in serious contrast to Article 97 of the Constitution, which requires strict determination by law of the spheres of competence, the specific powers and responsibilities proper to public officials. In view of the fact that the multiplication of the commissioners and the simultaneous provision of powers derogating from the rules of law to commissioners discreetly appointed by the Government is in clear contrast to the principle of legality and risks leading to the constitution of a real parallel administration, not regulated by law, deprived of the necessary impartiality and direct dependence of the Executive, such a new administrative organization, established discreetly by the Government by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, is contrary to the Italian Constitution which requires, in Article 97, that public offices be organized according to legal provisions, precisely in order to ensure the good performance and impartiality of the administration. It was noted that Article 4 provides for the appointment by the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, of one or more special commissioners for infrastructure operations deemed to be priority and gives these Commissioners the power to assume any determination deemed necessary for the start or the continuation of the work, even suspended and to establish the conditions for the effective implementation of the work, is not clarified by the rule whether the provision under consideration operates by way of derogation from the current rules on planning of priority infrastructure, giving the President of the Council of Ministers the power to consider priority infrastructure interventions not classified as such by the current programming instruments provided for by the law. Our doubts also take into account the fact that the approval of projects by the extraordinary commissioners is a substitute for any authorization, opinion, view and no obstacle necessary for the start or continuation of the work, for opinions relating to the protection of cultural and landscape goods and for those of environmental protection, moreover, the principle of silence is established - consent for the release of acts leading to the approval of the project. We also review the generality of the forecast of silence assent, in cases where there is provision for the acquisition of no obstacles to environmental, landscape-territorial, cultural goods and the health of citizens without specifically indicating in the decree, with appropriate normative references, the procedures in environmental matters and the protection of cultural and landscape goods whose terms are subject to simplification, risks endangering interests of particular constitutional importance such as those of the protection of the health of citizens and the health of the environment. In addition, a fifteen years of disastrous application of the rules deriving from the so-called objective law has shown the danger of accelerated and simplified procedures precisely for the great works, which can most put at risk, if poorly designed, poorly realized or built in the wrong place, the protection of landscape, cultural and environmental goods. After all, it was precisely this approach that the new 2016 Procurement Code intended to overcome. It should also be assessed that, for the figure of the Special Commissioner, introduced by Article 13 of Decree-Law No 67 of 1997, it was provided at least that the measures taken by way of derogation from the laws in force should contain the indication of the main rules to which it was intended to derogate and be justified, whereas in the rules of the Decree on Special Commissioners, not only such determination is not required, but there is also no obligation to justify the derogations. In our constitutional order there is still the principle of legality and the Government's attempt to circumvent it, reserving the appointment of persons who will operate outside the law, leaves the citizens at the mercy of arbitrary acts of commissioners of direct political appointment, without any guarantee to protect the transparency and impartiality of administrative action and giving to the arbitrariness of a few the integrity of the landscape, the health of the environment and the health of the citizens. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that these rules of the draft law No 1248 be not examined. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u22	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u25	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, I believe that there are a number of critical aspects to this measure. It certainly does not run counter to the principle of legality alone, but it contrasts heavily (I am thinking of the whole matter of derogations) with the rules of environmental protection, landscape protection and cultural heritage, guaranteed by Article 9 of our Constitution. In my opinion, the most sensitive point and the obvious violation of constitutional rules by the decree-law in question, on which I believe it is absolutely necessary to dwell (and why we shall vote in favour of the question for a preliminary ruling) is the violation of Article 77 of the Constitution with regard to the conditions of necessity and urgency. You have justified the decree-law on the need and urgency to unblock the works, but the operation on extraordinary commissioners takes place without even having a list of priority works. I would also like to point out that this decree-law was approved, except in agreement, in the Council of Ministers, it wandered for a month, then it was adopted again. It is clear that there are no conditions for the application and compliance with the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution. For all these reasons, the vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u26	As there are no other requests for intervention, pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in order to focus on the importance of the decree-law unblocks construction sites from two data. Firstly, the ANCE (the National Construction Association) has recently estimated in almost 600 the medium and large works blocked, worth as much as 50 billion euros, which go up to more than 100 billion, if you calculate the repercussions on the entire national economic system. Secondly, in last year's Update Note to the DEF we recalled that in Italy between the allocation of resources and the actual delivery of the finished work was estimated to spend on average two years for works of less than 100,000 euros, while up to fifteen years for works of more than 100 million. The reason is simple and I do not say it, but the experts in the sector: half of the time - wasted - is to be blamed for excessive bureaucratic slowness. In recent years we have spent just 4% of the EUR 150 billion allocated to infrastructure and only 19% of the European 2014-2020 funds (and I stress that five of the ten years have already passed) and, finally, only 1.5% of the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund allocated to the infrastructure allocation of our territory This is the legacy in front of which the present Government is located and to remain hand in hand, as has already been done in the past years, was no longer possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For the first time in history the government gave without asking for anything in return, even to local administrations. I remember that we have recently allocated: 11 billion euros for a plan for the protection of the fragile Italian territory, renamed "protecting Italy"; 400 million in favor of small municipalities for the safety works of the local infrastructures and 500 million, always for the benefit of the municipalities, for works of energy efficiency of the public real estate. However, we must also be able to spend the large mass of resources allocated over the years by the various maneuvers, resources incredibly bogged down in the quicksand of bureaucracy. In fact, the Ministry of Economy has certified that, of the 150 billion euros already foreseen in the budget (allocated in fifteen years) for public investments, as many as 118 are immediately activated. I come now to the decree-law under consideration, the unblocking of yards, which has inside it the best garrisons for the proper functioning of the procedures. I would like to stress the introduction of a new open procedure for works contracts up to the Community threshold, i.e. EUR 5.2 million, which does not at all provide for the award of the contract with the maximum reduction criterion, as someone wrongly and instrumentally argued. The rule in fact provides for the award with the criterion of the lowest price, quite different from the maximum decrease, with an automatic mechanism of exclusion of the so-called anonymous offers, that is those offers so low that of course they cannot guarantee a serious execution of the work. The mechanism is simple: the supply closest to the average of the basses prevails. The action that we put in the field caress different disciplines: the world of renewables, the environment, cultural goods, the government of our territory and, indeed, the building. These are different facets for a change that we hope can be tangible in a short time. In fact, in the short term we will unlock up to 300 public works, exposing the propaganda of those who want to paint us as a political force hostile to infrastructure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are and will always be against the waste of public money, but we are also part of a government that is relaunching public investment, collapsed to the historical minimum of 1.9 percent of GDP in 2017. It is not by making bureaucratic life difficult for small businesses to fight corruption. In the budget law, we put money to raise public investment to 2.1% of GDP by the end of 2019 and 2.7% by 2021. Not surprisingly, the figures for the first two months of 2019 give us reason, with an exponential increase in procurement payments and calls for tenders in the Regions (+89.4 percent) and municipalities (+21.8 percent). It is continuing, as we are doing, that we will give new life to a sector that represents the central pivot of the Italian economy. Italy must start again and thanks to the measures put in place by this Government will finally be able to do so in faster times. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u28	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u29	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to discuss now is a fundamental measure for our economy. I know that we often tend to emphasize what we are doing and therefore we use the expression I have just used. In this case, however, I believe that my expression is particularly appropriate for a number of considerations. If, coming out of here, we went to talk to entrepreneurs, free professionals, artisans and asked them what, according to them, the biggest problems we have in our country at the moment, we would almost always receive the same answer and that is that the problem is taxes and bureaucracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I know that someone may seem to be talking about slogans, but that is not the case: I am convinced that we are talking about policy points to be achieved and, to reiterate my statement, I would like to open a small parenthesis on the first of the two problems that I have indicated that we need to intervene on: taxes. We have often said - especially we of the League - that reducing taxes is a necessity for the production system of this country. We have always added that this would not only improve our GDP and our employment force, but also our social and health system and we say so because history teaches us that it is so. If we go back a few decades, to 1982, to be precise, to when Ronald Reagan, in application of Laffer's economic policies, reduced taxes, and went to see what the consequences were, we would make sure that not only the US production system benefited from them for the next fifteen to twenty years, but that the US tax system also benefited equally. Not surprisingly, for almost ten consecutive years, from 1982 to 1990, the revenue for the treasury increased every year, from about 600 billion dollars in 1982 to almost 2,000 billion dollars in 1990. However, we must not go so far in time and space to have other positive examples. If we were to think of the virtuous European examples of those states which grow more than others or which are more easily overcome by crises, we would find that in these realities there is always a fixed system of taxation, such as the flat tax that we want to introduce, which is still at very low levels. Even in Italy we have a positive example in this regard, because when the dry coupon was introduced many said that it was a measure that we could not have put in, but the revenue for the treasury increased, because at that point it became no longer economically viable to escape and, consequently, the revenue suffered positively. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, we also had always negative examples in Italy, to show that the opposite has deleterious effects. In fact, if we thought of that period defined by many historians as an Italian miracle, that period of the sixties when Italy grew more than anyone else, we would find that one of the peculiarities of our country was a lower tax level than that of many other states; it was therefore no coincidence that our growth was higher than that of most other States; likewise, it was not a coincidence that in the seventies, when our tax level adapted to that of other European countries, even our productivity aligned; equally, it was not a coincidence that when our tax level has become higher than that of other countries, our productivity and competitiveness have collapsed and we have found ourselves to be not only taillight in Europe, with levels of growth or decreasing ever worse than all others, but also a bad example at world level. For this reason, at a time of difficulties such as the present one, in the presence of a weak economy such as ours, a measure that solves one of these two problems, namely that of the possibility of starting work, therefore of simplifying bureaucracy, is fundamental. The measure under consideration includes measures for the acceleration of infrastructure interventions and, waiting to be able to lower taxes (another programmatic point of our party), it is certainly the best solution that we could propose to our country in a time of difficulty that - let us not hide it - could become even worse, because normally the economic cycles are not as long as the current one, that now for ten years presents positive signs, without considering that the war of the duties in existence and the other international criticalities could affect ulteriorly a scenario that already positive is not. Therefore, to start the work, to start what could become, indeed that it will certainly become the largest construction site in Europe is a quick, effective response and one of the few that we can afford, given the situation of our public accounts. I have mentioned what will be the largest construction site in Europe, so I also go into the details of some of the measures that we have provided for in the decree-law in conversion, namely those in favour of the earthquake victims. We are well aware that, unfortunately, an excessively cumbersome and bureaucratic approach to reconstruction has so far prevented the departure of shipyards. With this measure we intend to be able again to facilitate those populations, those territories (I say again because much has already been done with the conversion of Decree-Law No. 55 of 2018 and No. 17 of 2019) and can represent a response not only to those people who have only a request among their own priorities, i.e. to return to their homes, but also a positive response in terms of employment and GDP. In fact, referring again to the teachings of history, it is shown that starting the realization of works (little important if public or private) does nothing but raise the economy in difficulty. We were taught by the Marshall plan, which, after the Second World War and with a situation compromised by the conflict, did not cause the consequences of the conflict to degenerate, but rather allowed a recovery of the economy. I read Mr Marshall's statement when he presented the plan, which was adopted precisely to avoid what he described as 'a very serious deterioration in political, economic and social conditions', precisely because - as I said before - all the measures that promote employment, all the measures that promote work and all the measures that promote the economy cannot but, inevitably, favour the whole population, even in terms of social and health care. So the measures we are about to adopt now will have positive consequences on all aspects of our lives. I was saying before that many of the measures we are preparing to take concern the earthquake. I see that I have been a little longer and that, unfortunately, for reasons of time, I have to conclude, so I will just make some references. The first is related to article 23, paragraph 1, letter a), which provides the possibility for the municipalities to agree with the special offices for reconstruction the transfer of the instructors to the municipal technical offices of the houses that have been successful And with L4 operational level. For those who are not a technician, I refer to the most damaged structures, whose Aedes card has succeeded E, which must be demolished and rebuilt (operating level L4). This measure will not only facilitate the reconstruction of the destroyed countries, because it is obviously aimed at those countries, but will finally reduce the approval process of the projects, which at the moment, despite the small number of practices presented, is already absurdly long. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Pazzaglini. Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well, Mr. President. Many times in this House there has been criticism of the fact that it already takes too many months for the projects to be approved today. Allowing municipalities to manage the investigations on these practices can only facilitate the whole process. There are many other predictions, both in favour of the earthquake victims and in favour of those in a situation of weakness and difficulty (such as cameras in kindergartens and nursing homes); I am sure that my colleagues will be more exhaustive with regard to these measures. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, public procurement is a complex and sensitive matter, because it has always been a serious risk of corruption and concussion and because it is the way in which business committees and crime bind themselves to politics. The unblocking, acceleration and simplification of procedures in this sector, which are treated as a cutting off of bureaucracy, have repeatedly been the source of measures which, instead of favouring companies and workers, have only increased the work of magistrates and law enforcement agencies. The changes we are debating are the return to an old weaponry, which I hoped had been overcome with the introduction of the new procurement code. This decree-law has very little to do with the aim of unblocking the yards, but it seems more to concern in general an unblocking corruption, a loosening of the rules of transparency and vigilance, an underestimation of the rigor necessary for the authorizations, thus reducing the protection of cultural, landscape and environmental goods, a systematic and unjustified reduction of the role and functions of the National Anti-corruption Authority. I do not have much time to highlight all the critical passages, but I would like to stress at least negatively the return, until 2021, of the integrated contract, the old contract contest, that is, the design and execution of the works by the same subject. The design independent from those who have to realize the event was one of the cornerstones of the new code of contracts and was intended to increase the quality of the projects and the search for technological solutions that at best could insert the works in the environmental, territorial and urban context. The return to the old regime is also completed by the exhumation - alas - of the extraordinary Commissioners. In this respect, given the extent of the powers of derogation granted to Commissioners, it would have been appropriate to provide at least for the reasons for the derogations. That is why I have tabled an amendment, which I hope will be accepted. A return to the past is also generated by the extension of the quota of works to be put in competition for the concessions, by the increase of the subcontracting, by the training of the controls and the threshold of the intense activities under private negotiation, by the destructuring of the authorization procedures in the matter of strategic infrastructures, solutions already tried in the past, that have not absolutely increased the intense activities, but only the poor quality of the public works, some remained unfinished and moreover an unjustified increase of the costs, besides, as I have already said, serious episodes of corruption and concussion. Dear colleagues in the majority, it is hardly necessary to send out messages of rigour with one hand, if, with the other, the threshold for direct assignments of works without competition stands out, if the criterion of the lowest price for works of millions of euros returns, if the freedom of subcontracting is re-introduced, if the guidelines of anti-corruption are deleted. To my 5 Star colleagues I say: were you not those of legality, honesty, transparency? This measure, like others that you have voted in this last year, goes - know it, but you know it - in the opposite direction. The voters noticed, half of them escaped. Are you sure you want to keep this up? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u32	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year after the beginning of the legislature, it seems that this Government has finally noticed that delaying, analysing, rethinking and finally trying to delete any work that can create work, growth and development is not exactly what the country needs. In fact, it seemed to us that it was not so difficult to understand that people are legitimately interested in creating the conditions to enable them to do business, to give work, to work, to move quickly and in a sustainable way between our cities and towards Europe and the world. That is why we have never stopped supporting the right ideas, working on projects that allow to reduce taxes, to make the state more efficient, to improve school and university, to propose investments in research and development, to use the opportunities that come from Europe, to carry out the many infrastructure projects that can make the country more competitive. Now it seems that at least on the public works front the Government has noticed how necessary it is not to postpone but to act, not to analyze and rethink but to carry out. However, taking note of the government's alleged awakening brings with it at least two considerations. The first is that if it is necessary an intervention that allows to start or restart the yards, then all the premises of method that this Government had given itself up to here, that is that the works from the TAP to the TAV should not be carried out, fall. They were wrong premises and it's time for the government to explicitly admit it. The second consideration that the decree-law that we are about to convert naturally leads us to do is that, despite the attempt once again, it is not enough to use a linguistic formula to succeed in doing things properly. The seemingly captivating formula of unlocking yards, in fact, is not enough for the yards to unlock, so that we can move from saying to doing. Of course, we know very well why this seemingly evocative formula has been chosen, the idea is to make the citizens believe - or perhaps we should tell the voters - that even a government that stands thanks to a well orchestrated permanent disagreement and that more than action tends to draw to life can do something for the development, the growth and the unblocking of what there is to unlock in the country. Unfortunately, this is not the case: once again, the decree-law, long meditated by the Government, with biblical times between the announcement and the publication, has no content even at the level of the formula with which it has been synthesized, which therefore goes immediately redefined, because here we are certainly before an intervention that does not unblock the yards. The decrees and implementing measures present in the text are wasted and will therefore spend months before the framework, variously hypothesized, can find a concrete implementation. Moreover, even worse are the many criticalities of merit contained in the text and over which the majority decided not to intervene, not only when constructive criticism came from the opposition, but also - and this is even more serious - when they came from the different audit realities, from the country therefore, that once again this Government does not want to listen. It is proposed a unblocking yards that, even if it had been well designed, would have been a warm cloth. However, we do not look at those who create jobs and those who work, we do not encourage the re-use of buildings, we do not finally say clear words about the continuation of fundamental works such as the TAV, the Third Pass or the Highway 33. It is time for this Government to act in an effective and incisive way, not only through mere lexical disguises. The country needs to grow and look to the future. It is time for this majority, together with the shipyards, to unblock itself and decide whether it really wants to work for Italy or if it does not prefer to desist. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u34	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u35	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating (public contracts, acceleration of infrastructure interventions and urban regeneration) insists on the code of procurement, which has already been the subject of some of our interventions: in the Decree-Law on simplifications, with an exhaustive and no longer exemplifying list of cases of professional wrongdoing; in the Budget Act, on the purchase of goods and services of the state, central and peripheral administrations; on the safety of roads, schools, public buildings and municipal assets; on the identification of a structure for the design of public goods and buildings, precisely for the speeding up of design activities; in the Safety Decree, which introduced a new case of negotiated procedure for a limited period and for works below the Community threshold; in the Decree-Law on Genoa, with the introduction of a national computer archive for certain types of public works. This is to say that the Government in office, right from the start and with every measure with which it has been possible, has tried to remedy the criticalities and the points of confusion existing in the new code of contracts of 2016, even updated in 2017. The unblocking of construction sites is the result of a study and a prompt work on fundamental principles, for an effective intervention in a very delicate but decisive field, such as that of public contracts, on which rarely one intervenes in an effective and timely way. A first novelty of this measure is the re-introduction of the single implementing regulation of the Procurement Code, which will regulate the content of the design in the three levels (preliminary, final and executive) and the minimum content of the demanding framework that the contracting stations must prepare, greatly slimming down the forecasts of the ministerial decree referred to in article 23 of the Code of Contracts never implemented. A simplified framework directly applicable to the award of contracts providing for ordinary and extraordinary maintenance shall be introduced, provided that they do not include the replacement or renewal of structural parts of works or installations. It is therefore a simplified modus operandi, which allows the entrustion of the work on the basis of the final project, which has a minimum information content indicated by the norm, and the possibility to carry out works without drawing up or approving the executive project. In fact, design levels are not eliminated, as someone wrongly claims, but action is taken on Article 23 of the Procurement Code, only by allowing the completion of the first stage to be no longer conditioned by the context, but solely by the amount of the contract, with regard to public works above or below a threshold of European relevance. With regard then to the assignment of the services of architecture and engineering, the discipline of the participation of contest in the concessions of public works of the entrusted subjects of the assignments of design for projects placed to base of contest to the European discipline, according to which the outgoing concessionaires that have prepared the planning to place to base of contest are entitled to participate in the procedure of contest for the assignment of the concessions of the public works. The process of entrusting work under threshold is streamlined by allowing the prior consultation of only three operators instead of ten and the scope is extended to all works of up to 150,000 euros and obviously equal to or greater than 40,000 euros. For the assignments of works of an amount equal to or greater than one million euros and up to the threshold of European importance it is previewed the confidence through the recourse to the open procedures with participation therefore of all economic operators endowed with qualifications and characteristics suitable for the assignment of a given contract and with the criterion of the lower price. Colleagues, these changes go in the only direction to allow a speed of the procedures of confidence in the full legitimacy of the procedures themselves and the fact that for those under threshold the contracting station can provide in the notice the automatic exclusion from the invitation to tender of tenders that have a percentage of decrease equal to or above the threshold of anomaly guarantees the protection of possible illegitimate situations. Paragraphs 2-a and 6-a of Article 120 of the Code of Administrative Procedure relating to the above mentioned rite, which, while complying with European law, presents the limit of actual knowledge by the participants to a tender for the reasons for the unlawfulness of the measure, which would be liable to challenge immediately, with the compromise of the right of defence, with charges borne by the undertaking and without in fact achieving the acceleration of the custody procedures, are deleted. Therefore, the defects relating to the admission to the competition can now be invoked in ordinary forms. It is possible, with attention also for small municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, to conclude the infrastructure programs, referred to in Decree-Law No 133 of 2014 for the realization of public works. In the same context, it is expected to assign to a new program of infrastructural interventions for Municipalities up to 3,500 inhabitants from the economies resulting from the previous programs for works of immediate cantierabilità for the maintenance of roads, public lighting and municipal public structures. For urban regeneration is expected the necessity and not only optionally, by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, of the approval of provisions derogating from Ministerial Decree No 1444 of 1968 regarding the limits of building density, height and distance between buildings with adaptation by the Municipalities of their urban planning tools, introducing a containment of the consumption of soil, a regeneration of the existing building stock, a redevelopment of degraded urban areas, a development of energy efficiency and an improvement and seismic adaptation of the existing building stock. I conclude by saying with certainty that this measure, strongly wanted by the Government and supported by this majority, will finally give impetus to the productive system of the Country, constituted by Italian companies that in this particular period of economic stagnation need to be supported in their activity through the introduction of measures to simplify the administrative and regulatory framework. It will allow a rapid use of the economic resources planned for the infrastructural interventions indifferent, for the necessary interventions in the seismic zones slimming down the bureaucratic iter, for the infrastructural interventions of immediate cantierabilità, for the building interventions of urban regeneration, for the mobile services of communication in the territories concerned from serious emergencies. All this is carried out in the sole, exclusive and predominant interest of Italy and Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u37	Mr President, in this parliamentary term we have always had a non-prejudice position with regard to the measures put forward by the Government, behaving correctly and on the basis of the programme, and therefore the director whom we have given ourselves with our centre-right voters. Much less have we had a preliminary attitude towards this decree-law, when it was announced with the roboating title, like all decree-laws of this majority, of decree unblocks yards. The latter perhaps is not the one to which the colleague of the League first recalled, comparing it to the Marshall plan, which in the post-war period unblocked the infrastructures and the productive economy of Italy and Europe and which allowed to realize the economic miracle to which the Vice Premier and Minister of Economic Development referred at the beginning of the current year, announcing for this year, precisely, the economic miracle. It is not the Marshall plan and it is not the Marshall plan because there is no General Marshall here in this House, nor is there the Minister for Infrastructure. So much importance attaches this majority to the measure under discussion that there is no Minister in this House. There is no Minister Toninelli, who may still be in the Brenner tunnel to see if the cave is a tunnel. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] However, he is not here, precisely because he himself and this majority do not give any value to this provision. This is in the face of a problem that exists in the country. It is true, as has been said during the hearings of the social partners, unfortunately all criticism of the measure, that there are EUR 150 billion of infrastructure that could be implemented. In the last two years, that is, in the year of this 5 Star-Lega Government and in the previous year of the Silver Gentiles Government, less than 4% has been used. 4 percent of 150 billion means 6 billion, that is nothing. The 150 billion could be a Marshall plan if they were unlocked. Will they be unlocked? The process of this measure is emblematic: it was adopted a first time, then put in the drawer, then re-submitted, after another month, to be re-approved with amendments, then presented in Parliament and, for a month, we have been waiting to discuss it in this House, because they should have agreed, in the election campaign, on the changes to be made to improve the measure and really unblock the yards. In fact, the League had tabled an amendment in the Commission to impose clarity on the implementation of the TAV, high-speed trains, and that amendment was withdrawn by the Commission and there is a rumor that it will be presented in the form of a palliative, that is, an agenda on the day, that is nothing, a fake. But we do not know yet, because the amendments have yet to be tabled. It has been three months and we are still waiting for the version that the majority will embroil in tabling this amendment. This against 150 billion euros blocked and blocked, because the measure of this Government is the stalemate, the blockade. How many implementing decrees have you made of the financial economic maneuver that should have changed the magnificent fate of this legislature? You have done 20 out of 345: 16%, that is: all the great economic maneuver of the Government is blocked by the lack of implementing decrees. We hear that the House has suspended the Commissions on the decree-law growth. Of this other great development track, along with the decree-law unblocks yards, which was stopped at the House waiting for the government and the majority to agree in the electoral campaign, the examination was suspended and postponed for another two days. I understand the murmur that had been there before, because we were all discussing the election results, but in the meantime there has been a plebiscite, defined by the League itself: 85% of the Piedmontese voted for forces - largely centroright but also others - which are strongly in favour of high-speed trains. There was a plebiscite in the European elections, where six million voters abandoned the 5 Stars. And what did the government decide? That tomorrow, in the face of this plebiscite, will not bring together the Council of Ministers because tomorrow will really be held the vote, the referendum, which was not that of the European elections nor that of the renewal of the Piedmont Region. No, colleagues of the League, the referendum you are waiting for is that of the platform Rousseau: 20,000 registered and "blinded" people who will vote according to a certificate not recognized such by the Authority that guarantees privacy, and therefore also computer science. What will they vote for? Sorry, they will vote is a wrong term because it is too democratic: what will they confirm? Trust in the political leader Di Maio as in all referendums in the Soviet Union. It confirms the trust of the lider máximo Di Maio and waiting for 20,000 people to decide - or rather that Housewife decides - the Government suspends the activities. So today Prime Minister Conte went to the Head of State, after seeing the Vice Premier, and told everyone that he has a busy agenda of measures and measures to implement that he will commit us for the rest of the legislature and that he awaits the referendum of the Rousseau platform. To know if the legislature can continue, 20,000 citizens will decide against 50 million voters who have already decided last Sunday and their response is clear. In view of this and the paralysis which affects all measures, can you tell me how many decisions the CIPE has made? It seems to me that the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning has been standing still for months and that every decision is blocked. Can you tell me anything about the measure on savers cheated by banks and the decrees implemented, announced and trumpeted in the electoral campaign? Or the so-called paralyzed growth decree in the House? Will savers ever get what you promised over a year ago? This government, when it legislates, hurts it only by looking at the titles - and I can say that under the dress of the titles there is nothing or almost nothing - and then it is paralyzed completely by the implementing decrees that you cannot write. So the measures lapse one after the other because you do not know how to implement them in so far as they have to be implemented. Well, there would be a need for an unblocking-cantiere decree; there would be a need for investment in infrastructure; there would be a need for simplification and deburocratization and for what there is, even if the mountain of the title - unblocking-cantieri - gave birth to a small mouse, we want to give strength to that mouse with the amendments. We will see whether it will be possible to do so in the Chamber, when you decide to table the amendments and see what you will be presenting in the next few hours; whether you will present them or if you will block the work here as you did in the Chamber awaiting tomorrow's referendum, for which all international observers have also sent delegations to see if the Country of Casalegio will really allow Di Maio to continue the legislature and to us to take over the busy agenda of Prime Minister Conte's commitments, submitted today to the two Vice Premiers before going to the Head of State (back with what?). You will have to respond to the European Commission by Friday on the deficit and debt that has increased this year. Who will write that answer if the Council of Ministers cannot meet tomorrow because it awaits the response of Casaleggio? I believe that that response has already been given by the Italians and we hope that they will give it in an even more convinced and free way to the forthcoming parliamentary elections. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u40	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. We have now been handed over, through the offices, the first package of government amendments. These amendments were sent to the Offices at 4.30 p.m. without being communicated to the House and the deadline for submission of sub-amendments was set at 5.30 p.m. (i.e. in practice less than an hour). The general discussion is under way, and I would ask the Government to postpone the deadline for submission of sub-amendments, to ensure that there are adequate deadlines and, if necessary, to announce in this House the submission of future amendments. Nobody asked to interrupt the general discussion; the request is only that there be adequate time for submission of sub-amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u41	Senator Mirabelli, as you know, the government's amendments are four and had been announced in the short way to the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u42	Sorry, Mr President, we knew that amendments would be tabled in this House and also, as we agreed in the Commission with the Government, that we would have adequate time for the submission of sub-amendments. The Offices received four amendments, while the information received from the Government was that fifteen were due to arrive, so we would like to know if more should come. However, the amendments arrived at the Group Offices at 4.30 p.m. and the deadline for submission of sub-amendments was set at 5.30 p.m., which seems to us to be a little short. Furthermore, the acceptance of our request would not lengthen the time for work because, as we said in the Commission, we are prepared to present the sub-amendments without interrupting the debate in this House. I therefore call on the Government at least to postpone by a couple of hours the deadline for submission of sub-amendments and to advise the House if any other amendments are tabled, and in this case also to allow time for submission of sub-amendments. [[Applause from Senator Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u45	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I too wish to speak on the order of business. We had put this issue very clearly at the meeting of yesterday's Conference of Leaders. We were assured by both the Government and the Presidency that we would have absolutely sufficient time to examine the amendments and prepare the sub-amendments. The amendments arrived at the offices at 16,37 - this is the time - and we are here not to repeat the request, but to remember the assurance given to us at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. I therefore agree with the request to have a more reasonable time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u46	I would remind you that it is only these four amendments, which had been announced. Therefore, the Presidency's decision remains firm on these four amendments. On the following, as foretold... MIRABELLI (PD). Preannounced to who? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As had been announced and agreed at the Conference of the Leaders. [[Senator Margiotta's comments.]] However, the Presidency had spoken on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u49	MIRABELLI (PD). President, I understand that you have spoken, but telling us something that I do not think is true. That there would have been only one hour between tabling amendments to the Offices and the deadline for submitting sub-amendments is something that we do not find to have been decided anywhere with the agreement of the Groups. On the contrary, the Government and the rapporteurs had asked and obtained the guarantee that we would have more time. Mr President, I am simply asking you to give us two hours more time and postpone the deadline for submission of sub-amendments by two hours. I don't think that's an extravagant request. And it is a request that I believe the Presidency has access to.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u50	The Presidency takes note of this and, since these four amendments are being tabled, it provides for the extension of the deadline to 6 p.m. Then there are other amendments and, in this case, of course, an appropriate and appropriate deadline will be agreed, just as I had guaranteed myself at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u51	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Technical Institute for Geometries "Gaetano Salvemini-Duca d'Aosta" in Florence, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u52	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the members and Presidents of the 8th and 13th Commissions for their work, with a constructive climate for the good of our country. A special mention to the speakers, Senator Faggi and Senator Santillo, for the competence and passion made available to all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unlocking yards, simplifying procedures - sometimes made too subjective in the application of the procurement code - means raising Italy's head, starting it up again. To restart a country that has been blocked by the shortsighted policies of past years. Regenerating urban voids, giving clear and immediately applicable rules to return entire areas to the city, means making our territories more livable. I've been the mayor, I know what it's like to do, to know that I have to do and not succeed for too much bureaucracy. Those who have found themselves like me to be a local administrator or a professional know what it means to be faced with some articles of the procurement code, in the difficulty of application, in the interpretative doubts of municipal technicians, little incentive to find solutions compared to too much responsibility in the interpretation of the rules. This, together with the cuts of local authorities (only in the last budget law were finally unlocked the administrative surpluses for the virtuous bodies), had led to a total blockage of local public investment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Within the measure is rendered justice to all those Municipalities that were excluded in the allocation of resources from the calls for works of security of the territories, which provided absurd criteria, established by the past Government, with allocation of funds exclusively to the Municipalities in financial failure, creating a huge harassment towards those Municipalities that had given correct proof of good administration. Reviewing the thresholds for entrusting the work in order to be able to speed up the practices is essential in order to speed up and be able to make direct trusts, without regardless of the guilty local administrators, technicians or companies. For its consistency and diffusion in our territory, the public procurement sector is an important lever of our economy. If the intention of the legislator with the public contract code was to make public spending more rational and the process more transparent, in reality, this has resulted in a strong aggregation of demand, with a worsening of market access by medium and small enterprises, which are a pride and a heritage to be safeguarded, to be helped to grow and not to close, as the wrong policies of the past years have done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The way forward is, yes, to simplify and make processes transparent, but to reduce the burden on businesses, to facilitate access to our small and medium-sized enterprises and, by making clear the rules for easy application, to prevent interpretations from leading to disputes around every corner, which slow down our economy. The construction sector has suffered a great deal in recent years. Thousands of businesses have closed their doors to the crisis, thousands of skills and shattered jobs. Here: to restart the yards means to give new life to the field, a strategic field for our economy. That is why this measure, together with the incoming growth decree, is important; that is why the constraints imposed by Europe show that it does not know the country Italy, a country like ours, made of many small and medium-sized enterprises, made of 8,000 municipalities, which bases its policies in direct contact with the citizen; a country that must review those European bonds that blocked our investments and that we as legislators have the duty to review. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This does not mean that the great infrastructure works we need are less important and that we believe are fundamental, but we must not forget the immediate need and need for ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, schools, roads, bridges, public buildings, which will benefit from the acceleration of practices and which will consequently benefit our economy. Too much has been stopped. You need to start again. You need to believe that. This is a start, certainly not the solution of everything, but a good start. Let's go again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u54	Mr President, in these few minutes I would like to begin by saying that I do not want to be praised for the old contract code, because it does not deserve it. I shall therefore confine myself to pointing out the inconsistencies or problems that the inclusions in the old contract code will create or create. I would also like to say that I have heard some members of the majority talking about the decree in our examination, but I believe that a text other than what I have has been distributed to them, because the things they have said are in the text I have not found them. However, I found, for example, in the case of grounds for exclusion from a tender, the following situation: the previous text said that if a subcontractor had been convicted of a whole series of offences definitively, including those of an associative nature or even of flanking a mob association, the contractor would also be excluded, because of the subcontractor's fault. Now it won't be like this: therefore, the risk is that the contractor tries (as happened in the case of Genoa in which the anti-Mafia district management caught them later) and then says that he didn't know or didn't notice (but meanwhile he tried). Making such a gift from those who have spoken of legality for five years seems quite dangerous to me. Secondly, for five years we have said that the issue of subcontracting was a major problem. Well, subcontracting comes back stronger than ever. In fact, the old legislation excluded that those who lost in a tender could participate as subcontractors for those who had won the competition and this in order to avoid cartels; now this eventuality is allowed again. The Lombardy case and the arrests linked to this type of case obviously did not teach anything and did not even do jurisprudence in a negative sense. Another very perplexing prediction, which was also raised in the preliminary ruling, is that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly reiterated that the use of an extraordinary commissioner is a compression of constitutional rights. Well, it could be justified when the Commissioner arrives ex post, i.e. he has to solve a situation that has stranded over standardisation, but here it is put out of the blue that there will be a list of priority works (not yet present) for which the Commissioner arrives in advance: it is a preventive commission and clearly a forecast outside the Constitution, seen and considering that for five years we have said that the ordinary route was the only one that had to be pursued. Suddenly this condition is completely erased and even admitted in a preventive way. Not to mention the fact that the Commissioner arrives and has the opportunity to derogate from everything and that the time limits for issuing opinions beyond which silence takes place are halved: this is written in the text (which I obviously have, but do not have any other colleagues in this House). A real blow in my opinion is also the article that goes to unravel the papers on urban regeneration and the draft law on land consumption that we are discussing and for which we have held more than eighty hearings in Environment and Agriculture Commissions. There is a very dangerous phrase within this context, where it is said that before the Regions could produce legislation on matters of national competence with regard to the regeneration and use of the soil; now it is no longer a faculty but becomes a "do it": the Regions proceed to do it. In this way, even before they can understand it, the Regions will have put their hands on the regulatory plans and expansion plans and will have potentially made a disaster against the national legislation that in this case is the responsibility of the State. This is a very dangerous forecast. Another thing I wanted to point out is the following. A small piece has been inserted, a modification that allows to start the works for those who have won the race without waiting for the times of the appeals. We know that there is an instrumental appeal, but I ask a question for which there is no answer. Suppose one wins the race, does the work, gets to the bottom and then one of the losers wins the appeal. In this case, who puts their hand on the wallet for compensation? It is not clear, while the norm should foresee it, because it does not stop the instrumental appeal, but opens the door to ex post appeals and therefore to further causes and disputes. I believe that, when the contract code was put into practice, it should not have been done so lightly. Finally, one final point. It is clear that, as it emerged during the hearings, these rules are designed to unlock the reconstruction procedures, especially in the areas of central Italy which are - even rightly - subject to strong landscape constraints. To intervene then on the code of contracts for these areas with a change that applies to all is just as dangerous. In this case, rules should have been provided for derogation only for those specific situations and I would like to give an example: the opinion of the Superintendence is definitively "excerpted" from the opinions requested in many cases, whereas it should have been limited to a truly emergent situation. We should have thought about this and worked a little more calmly because - and I conclude - the old contract code is already under revision, so that such a heavy tampering was not really right to exist. Thank you. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Act in question has been designed in order to start the resumption of public works: construction sites, production activities and whatever else may represent the first motion for a resolution of the beginning and continuation of activities that will contribute to economic growth in our country. As many have said, Chapter I of the decree baptized "unblock yards" does not represent, as many have asserted, the reform of the code of the contracts, that is to say of the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016: it has basically a propedeutic function to that that it will be the real reform of the code of the contracts and that this Government has in program to realize. The amendments introduced have as a priority the simplification of the procedures for the award of contracts through the transposition of some of the most significant indications received in the framework of the public consultation procedure called by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, formulated directly by the enterprises that operate in the field of public works, which, in virtue of their everyday experience on the field, have the full awareness of the criticalities inherent in the current normative apparatus. Among the changes introduced to Chapter I of the decree is the obligation to indicate: the intervention in the matter of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance works, which can be entrusted on the basis of the final draft; the modification of the thresholds for the assignment of the works by negotiation procedure and those relating to subcontracting; the extension of the cases in which it is possible to proceed to the award on the basis of the criterion of the lower price and the modification of the mechanisms of determination of the threshold of anomaly (which have generated in the previous experience difficulties applicative and important litigation), to conclude with the introduction of rules that will give to the designers who collaborate with the contractor more certainties on the payments of their compensations. Dear colleagues, allow me to focus my attention on the interventions of reparation and post-seismal reconstruction, in particular in my beloved land, Sicily, and more precisely in the nine municipalities hit by the so-called earthquake of Santo Stefano, of 26 December last, namely Safferana Etnea, Viagrande, Trecastagni, Santa Venerina, Acireale, Aci Sant'Antonio, Aci Bonaccorsi, Milo and Aci Catena. After the timely response of the Government, with the visit the next day on the territories of our Deputy Minister Luigi Di Maio, a series of normative interventions have taken place, including the orders of the head of the Department of Civil Protection, which governed the first urgent aid following the seismic event that affected the ethnic area, aimed at curbing the state of confusion, confusion and uncertainty of the future that has pervaded the affected population. Since the first night, all families, citizens have been placed in the condition of sleeping under a roof, in local accommodation facilities, except for those who have provided self-catering. The intervention machine, therefore, started immediately. All that was the responsibility of the central government has been put in place, recording, unfortunately, the not always timeliness in the carrying out of the interventions of particular relevance of the local authorities, as well as a public information often uninformed (it is not for me to judge whether deliberately or not). Finally, what was originally to be a measure of its own was included in this decree-law n. 32 of 2019; therefore, after about five months from the earthquake in Catania and ten from the earthquake that affected the city of Campobasso, it will be possible to give refreshment to those citizens, municipalities and companies that have long been waiting for this moment. In addition, extraordinary contributions and various interventions aimed at accelerating the reconstruction phase in the areas of central Italy and L'Aquila, affected by the earthquake of 2016-2017 and the earthquake of 2009. I think it is important to point out that the Government, which is close to the needs of the population, cannot confine itself to the allocation of funds, and then, periodically, to have to fill the coffers of Regions and Municipalities due to a lack of careful planning of reconstruction activities. That is why there is a need to request an extension of the time taken to carry out the work (and, in my opinion, also of restructuring) first having to carry out geological studies and specialized third-level microzoning. This is why reconstruction should be relocated, for example in areas near active seismogenetic faults and in any case, even if last generation anti-seismic criteria were adopted, in areas identified as high seismic risk. This is in order to optimize resources and safeguard the safety of the population. I make this clear because locally even some mayor affirmed, in the past months, that, with the anti-seismic criteria of the last generation, it was possible to rebuild even in areas with a high percentage of seismicity, in contrast to the vision of the workers, such as geologists, and engineers. On the territory, with activists, mayors, committees of citizens, engineers and geologists, we have created a technical table from which came a series of amending proposals, whose relevance and validity are assured by the observation on the ground and listening to the needs from below. Therefore, a regulatory activity has been carried out that has decoded real and not supposed needs, by inductive procedure. Faced with an Italy that already in the first three months of the current year has recorded a slight increase of the GDP (+0.1%) and the transformations of the contracts of employment from fixed time to indefinite time between 75% and 126 percent, we are happy, with this measure, to contribute to the reversal of tendency with solutions whose relapse and whose fruits, in terms of investments, economic increase and social stability, will be noticed only in a few years. To posterity the arduous sentence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] FARAONE (PD). Where do you live? SUDANO (PD). Only walkways you can do! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u57	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Senator Faggi and Senator Santillo for having worked tirelessly in these weeks to conclude the examination of the measure; they were very good. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Then, after a small electoral break, this House's action continues at this point, which - it is now clear - meets the people's favour, given the result of last Sunday. It was, in fact, an excellent result for the majority, with a success that is still above 50% after a year of government. In this framework we are therefore going to approve the bill of conversion into law of the decree-law so-called unblocking-cantieri, that is, a package of measures that aim to share the work in the field of construction and public procurement. The Commissions 8a and 13a have met for a long time in recent weeks to improve the starting text and I believe that a really good job has been done, a level job, son also of the numerous hearings that have been held in the last months in both the Commissions and that have allowed us to gather the views of every actor in the field: we have auditioned from the professional associations to the unions, from the representatives of the local authorities to the state participants most involved in public procurement. On the one hand, therefore, I would like to thank the opposition for making a positive contribution to the Commission and avoiding obstructionism, and on the other hand, I congratulate the majority on the text that has emerged from it and which I believe will then be supplemented by the latest amendments by the Government. I believe that this measure is undoubtedly moving in the right direction that we must take. We have set a course, which has been defined by the incessant requests for help that have come to us from the innumerable associations in the sector, brought to our knees by a mass of regulations, laws and procedures that have exalted the concept of bureaucracy up to the limits that only we Italians can reach [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have therefore acted substantially on three fronts: the procurement code and shipbuilding, urban regeneration and post-earthquakes. On the procurement code and the shipbuilding we have operated on the current legislation, keeping firm the rules necessary to guarantee an adequate level of safety against those who are dishonest, but modifying some norms that have become real chains for all that majority of honest contractors and entrepreneurs who simply ask to be able to work. In Italy there are in fact about 600 important stationary yards that are worth alone approximately 36 billion euros, pairs to approximately 2% of the national GDP, and that, if we consider the induced one that could be generated by unlocking these yards, become 125 billion euros, pairs to 7 percent of the GDP [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For someone the responsibility coincides with talking only and exclusively about public debt; for us it is irresponsible not to legislate for growth and increase of GDP [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These data are not invented by me or the League, but are a cry of pain launched in March by the Italian Federation of Construction Workers and Related Workers (FILCA) of the CISL: since the beginning of the crisis, in fact, certify that we have lost 600,000 jobs and have closed 120,000 companies in the construction sector alone; companies and jobs that, translated, mean women and men who lose their independence and their future. (17.28) (Follows CAMPARI). This, ladies and gentlemen, is not just an alarm, but a real tragedy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have therefore intervened by giving the administrations the opportunity to contract the works in a more slender way, as well as creating the conditions so that the main works that have been firm for some time could be unlocked thanks to the new figure of the Commissioners ad acta. Allow me to make a small remark, because it is also worth pointing out that an amendment signed by Senator Saponara of our Group and signed by all political forces has finally allocated the necessary fund to install cameras in kindergartens and nursing homes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Santillo]] On urban regeneration we have introduced some important innovations, which aim to recover the existing and deteriorated building heritage, avoiding further unnecessary land consumption. We have focused on upgrading and improving existing structures in terms of safety, quality of housing and technological innovation. On the post-earthquake, situations present in different areas of Italy in the last fifteen years, we have put hand to the gaps present in the current law and on the one hand we have provided to the municipalities those regulatory tools that were indispensable to speed up the constructions, while on the other we have given to the private citizens the possibility of access to a series of tax reliefs, to be lifted from the obligation to pay taxes on goods that were now non-existent or unusable (it seems normal to us). We have therefore remained faithful to our idea that those who work in this sector cannot and must not be considered as smart regardless, but rather must be helped to do their job well, because we base believe that administrators work for the good of our own community and we are sure that good entrepreneurs generate jobs, often risking their own and often getting very little satisfaction. I am saying that there, at home, behind the word "entrepreneurs" there are people who deserve an answer from politics, who have been missing for too long. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If someone is wrong, it will have to pay the bill heavily to justice; it seems more than obvious to me. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that this measure marks an important discontinuity with the past and we are proud, as a League, to be able to say that we have collected the demands of a very important sector in crisis for a possible revival, finally turning them into a good law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u59	Mr President, I am always speaking when you are chairing this House, so I am in charge of bringing my suggestions and notes to the Government, which is represented here by a Undersecretary, but I am addressing the whole Government and the whole majority, because I want to put my speech on the list of lights and shadows. I think it is commendable that all governments have set themselves up to speed up the procurement system. I believe that this is a very sensitive matter. In my opinion, these substantial and important changes are already the new procurement code, because if we make a new code in three or six months, we risk changing again and wasting more time. Instead, here it is said (lights) to proceed with the regulation within one hundred and eighty days and it is said no to the guidelines of the DAC and the implementing decrees. I synthesize it, but between the lines you can read this. I think it is very important - as other Members have already pointed out - to set up the yards and solve many problems. GDP would increase, employment would increase and the environment would improve, because today public works are built with different criteria, planting in free areas, avoiding queues to the circulation, increasing the possibility to circulate on the roads and in the surroundings around the cities. It would also improve the budget, which is upset and "dirty" because of too many residues, which date back to the past years and which create a problem when they become cash - because they have to be paid - and when they become implemented works, especially if new laws are made to allocate new resources. On the one hand, these new laws must be made, but on the other hand, I would prefer the works corresponding to the Development and Cohesion Fund to be carried out; according to statistics, 6-7 per cent of the works have been carried out and the duration of the Fund has been extended. As far as sport and the outskirts are concerned, the conventions have been signed, but the funds have not been paid out, and the same applies to the degraded areas; I am talking about the funds for local authorities. ANAS funds also have very long procurement procedures; therefore, there are still some residuals in the budgets of local authorities, agencies or the State. In my opinion - and this is another suggestion that I would have tried to give to the Presidents of the 8th and 13th Commissions - a technician of a municipality of up to 5,000 inhabitants, a technician of a municipality of between 5,000 and 20,000, and so, depending on the demographic class, a technician of a province, a technician of Anas - as well as engineers, architects, geometries and even administrative staff - who are responsible for the procurement procedures - should have been able to tell us where the problems in the procurement procedures lie. Shortly following the texts of some articles, I have to say that it is positive what is expected that it can be contracted in cases of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, excluding projects that are too incisive and that involve the replacement of structural parts of the works, proceeding on the basis of the final project, because a passage is accelerated, that is that of the executive project. However, it is expected - and this is a shadow - to give a different definition of the feasibility project which takes into account the lowest possible consumption of soil - I believe that this is implicit - and, through an amendment, the best relationship between costs and benefits for the community. I believe that these documents - we have seen the one for the TAV - can be pulled from all sides and therefore can be - as it were - comfortable. In addition, the feasibility project for the works above threshold must draw up other documents - and this is another shadow - such as environmental and landscape feasibility studies, description of compensation measures and mitigation of environmental impact. I believe that all this is already included in the general project. There is an article, which I consider to be important, that amends Article 31 which requires the DAC to adopt guidelines for the definition of the task of the OR of functions and also of the compensation to the OR, that of 2%, which has created several interpretation problems in recent years. I have the experience of the Province of Cuneo Authority, which has regulated the provisions that concern 2% through a class - also in this case - of the amount of contracts, so 2% is only for works under 500,000 euros, because from 500,000 euros to one million - if I remember correctly - we talk about 1.5; if you exceed one million we talk about one percent, and it determines who goes within the offices. If the compensation to the OR goes only to a natural person, there is an excessive disparity with the other members of the office, which results in the blocking of work. I approve of the amendment to Article 36 concerning contracts under threshold, when it comes to establishing, even in discrepancies with the provisions of the budget law, that from 40,000 to 150,000 can be contacted 3 operators; from 150,000 to 350,000 can be contacted 10; from 350,000 to one million there are 15 operators. I think that's a good choice. With regard to the rule that the contracting station for contracts under threshold can normally award on the basis of the lower price criterion, or, subject to justification, on the basis of the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer, I have seen in practice that the criterion of the economically advantageous offer can be used by justifying it, and it is the most efficient one because it allows an evaluation of other parameters; while that of the pure price can create problems, because it can be detrimental to quality or bring disputes in the final accounting. There is a rule that I judge very good and that will be manna for the Italian mayors, and it is the one that amends Article 37 making optional the CUC (the single central of commission), that above all for the amounts of the small and medium Italian Municipalities represents a cost and has generated a whole series of problems of constitution and operation. The possibility of considering it optional will therefore be welcomed. I would also like to make a few more comments. Good is the rule that the issue of the SOA certificate takes into account an earlier period not of ten, but of fifteen years, in order to meet the parameters of judgment that do not suffer from the crisis. The amendment to Article 97 on abnormally low tenders revises the mechanism for determining the anomaly threshold, based on a single criterion and a formula that does not allow for possible agreement between participants. Article 4 of the Decree-Law contains provisions on special Commissioners and I fully agree with that. Once upon a time, the Commissioners were normally the Presidents of the Regions: today this is no longer the case, but it is to be assessed. When you make the list of extraordinary commissioners, I book the work Asti-Cuneo, which is the classic case in which we can insert a work that is struggling in the system of the extraordinary commissioner, who has special powers in the possible reworking of the projects of the procurement system, and so on. With regard to the system of works linked to earthquakes or natural disasters, I believe it must be determined whether the funds that the commissioners have in their hands, if they have actual powers, are used for the Forces of Order, which guarantee the tranquility of the places, used in favor of the works. Moreover, having spoken to people in those places and who have gone away, I consider that the contributions to private individuals should not include the competition of the private to entrust the works: at my house I entrust the works to whom I want. The advice of the ANCE (National Association of Construction Manufacturers), such as the fact that the CIPE limits the role and control programmes (and this would not be an authorization); that the Board of Governors should give its opinion for works exceeding not 50, but 200 million; that the times of the Conference of Services should be permanent; that the failed undertakings should be excluded, without prejudice to those with undefined accounting records - and there was a rule in question, of which I do not know the outcome - that they should be allowed; that the payments should be certain within 30 days; that the arbitration system should be preferred and the split payment abolished. These are some suggestions that I have taken from the directions of the ANCE, which I believe should have been taken into account and adopted and which I believe can still be taken into account in this or in other measures. Therefore, referring to the title of the measure under consideration, I think that the Government or the Presidents of the Commission, in the light of the comments made and the amendments tabled, can make minor constructive and procedural changes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is geologically very fragile and the great natural risks - seismic, hydrogeological and volcanic - afflict it from North to South. The danger of natural phenomena and the vulnerability of the built create very high risks, with gigantic thresholds along the Apennines. We are scourged on average by a destructive earthquake every four and a half years and at each earthquake we find ourselves doing the count of deaths and damage and intervening in emergency, during the earthquake with civil protection measures and after it with reconstructions very often problematic. We know that only prevention can mitigate the seismic risk, but the policy on this practice has always been fugitive. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As soon as it was established, this Government has undertaken a virtuous path towards the prevention of natural risks, the only way to guarantee the security of the territory and safeguard life. It is archaic that, with the expenditure imposed by the temporary and patchy emergencies, you can invest in durable and accurate prevention. Unfortunately, in the absence of prevention, we are chasing disasters. The severity of the emergent phase follows the slowness of reconstruction, due both to the objective difficulties of restoring devastated territories and to the bad past political and administrative managements. In this year of government we have already dealt with the overcoming of delays and failures accumulated in the past reconstructions after earthquake. Here we deal, among other things, with the acceleration of infrastructure interventions and reconstruction following seismic events. Chapter II contains provisions relating to the seismic events of the Molise Region (Sysms of Montecilfone of 15 and 16 August 2018, with magnitude 4.7 and 5.1) and the Ethnea area (Safferana etnea earthquake of 26 December 2018 with magnitude 4.8). The rules are aimed at regulating interventions for the repair and reconstruction of buildings; assistance to the population; economic recovery of the territories of the municipalities affected by the earthquakes mentioned. The appointment of the extraordinary commissioners for the reconstruction of the territories of the Molisan Municipalities and the Metropolitan City of Catania, which provide, through specific plans of transformation and possibly urban relocation, the reduction of seismic and hydrogeological risk situations and landscape protection with a financing of 276 million euros in the next five years. Among the functions listed there is the possibility to equip the municipalities with a plan of seismic microzonation of third level, as detailed as possible. I stress the spirit of such prevention of these competences: to mitigate the natural risks and to study the seismic response of the earthquake for a correct anti-seismic adaptation of the structures. Article 10 lays down general criteria and procedures for granting private reconstruction grants different depending on the damage. Article 13 is devoted to the demolition, reconstruction, repair and restoration of public buildings and infrastructure, as well as to interventions on the assets of artistic and cultural heritage. There is also a plan of interventions on the areas affected by hydrogeological failure, with priority given to disruptions that constitute danger to inhabited centres and infrastructure. It is intended to facilitate interventions to repair ancient land failures in order to prevent further serious consequences in the increasingly frequent atmospheric phenomena exacerbated by the current climate change. Chapter III lays down provisions for the seismic events of 2009 of L'Aquila, 2016 and 2017 of Central Italy and 2017 of the island of Ischia. Article 21 provides for an extraordinary contribution of EUR 10 million to the Municipality of L'Aquila for 2019 and another EUR 10 million for 2020. Article 23 amends Decree-Law No 189 of 2016 to accelerate public reconstruction in regions affected by seismic events of the years 2016-2017. There is an increase in the additional contribution planned for the technical activities aimed at local seismic response analysis, which concretely allow to adapt the structures at seismic risk of the foundation site. Further provisions of Chapter III concern the Civil Protection Code to exemplify procedures for the recovery of damage to economic and productive activities and private individuals as a result of calamitous events. Restoration of damage to natural disasters; aid to the territories; reconstruction and protection of cultural and landscape heritage; attention to infrastructure; acceleration of interventions; simplification of rules; mitigation of seismic and hydrogeological risk and prevention are the key words of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So much can still be done to mitigate the great natural risks, beginning with the knowledge of the territory. In fact, greater coverage of seismic stations at sea are desirable, studies on seismogenetic structures and crustal models of speed of propagation of seismic waves, for a more precise location of coastal earthquakes and a better assessment of the danger. It is, then, essential to refinance modern geological cartography, which is strongly lacking precisely in the areas at greatest risk, a basic scientific tool for proper management of the territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are building, piece by piece, that necessary security of the country for so long, too long denied. The beacon of the collective good for the 5 Star Movimento is always bright. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u62	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u63	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I am quite surprised by the decree-law in question. You want to unlock the yards, but in it you do everything except deal with the real problem that concerns the yards. Indeed, the rules on legality and transparency are destructured. I always listen to my colleagues very carefully, first and foremost those of Movimento 5 Stars. But you're talking about another decree-law, not that. You're talking about another story, not this decree-law. Here all the rules on legality are destructured. As always, our country is commuting. We find that there are problems with legality and we make some rules on legality; then we discover that the yards do not go ahead and, therefore, we deconstruct the rules on legality. I'm just gonna give you an example. We have had a debate and we are also doing joint assessments - for example - on accidents at construction sites. It is clear, however, that if we increase the subcontracting - and increase it - we will in fact increase the accidents on the yards and the deaths on the yards. Just look at the data, colleagues. If you listen to me, I'm glad. Just look at the data and read it. Those provided by the Minister Di Maio and the Ministry of Labour are striking data in relation to the subject of subcontracting and the crisis that has passed through the construction company, which has produced companies that in fact have no structure and basically use labour. That is the problem of Italy. How many companies are real in building management? I have read the amendments and I hope that there are others - as I understood, Undersecretary Crimes - from the Government, to try to address the real problem: we have a public administration unable to manage public procurement. If we want to manage them seriously, we need to hire technicians, engineers, designers, staff capable of managing the work, and to be the OR, which we do not have in the public administration today. Otherwise, this measure unlocks yards will be: "Do what you want". And at the end of the fair, all this will mean corruption and increased costs of public administration. How many variants will be made? How and who will control the variants? How are the contracting stations? What is the level of qualification of the contracting stations? Do you know how many qualified procurement stations we have today in Italy? I ask the government, the rapporteurs. Answer me in reply: how many qualified procurement stations do we have in our country today? Colleagues, if we move forward in this direction, I do not think that the arduous sentence will be for posterity. Unfortunately, it will be up to us to take note of further damage to public administration and the ability to solve problems. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u65	Mr President, we of the Brothers of Italy are in deep harmony with those who support a great and no longer postponed plan of infrastructural development that re-starts our economy. We are being asked by our companies, our entrepreneurs, our municipalities, our territories and the categories that we have audited in the Commission. We discussed and touched on crucial issues relating to the subject of our examination: the integrated contract, the contract under threshold, the complex subject of subcontracting, the issue of tendering commissions and the award criteria. I say this briefly: Brothers of Italy made requests and gave their contribution, also obtaining something. I refer, for example, to the possibility of allowing undertakings that have debts with the Treasury not to be excluded from contracts; to the possibility of participating for companies subject to tax assessment; to the possibility for companies to acquire public contracts without having to fail. One of our most critical issues is the fact that there are entrepreneurs who decide to hang themselves because they can no longer pay their employees because the state does not pay. Brothers of Italy, however, wants to add a further question that it considers very important, namely that of wanting to certify the drama of our public works that are clogged, mortified, frustrated by a monster called bureaucracy. Here: this monster that trespasses into the meanders of public administration, in fact, affects the very nature of the leader and the politician. I - as I believe many in this House - was lucky enough to be a city councilman for public works in my city. I must say that all those who have had the opportunity to listen to Italian entrepreneurs have heard them talk about the developing countries and also about those belonging to the European Union as a sort of Eldorado, not existing according to them - in them the bureaucracy, that intrusive monster present in our nation. The politician himself learned not to do anything because, disturbed by some parties that shake the cuffs and from easy arrest, they prefer not to act. The same thing - I must say - is up to the leader of the Italian State who, in good measure, pretends nothing, puts his head under the sand and unfortunately is almost disinterested in these crazy critical issues. According to a study, our times are 54 percent longer than those of the rest of Europe. That is why we ask for more courage and we would have expected more courage, because the proposed measures have little impact, leave unsolved questions intact that block and slow down the realization of the works in an exasperated way. We must intervene on bureaucracy in the authorization phase of the works, eliminate those unjustified extensions of time, of ban, of evaluation of appropriation, of signing the contract and of payments that paralyse economic operators and, therefore, the citizens. I heard the League's friends share the problem. We're worried about that. I am aware that we have finally identified one of the causes of the evils of our nation, but we believe that a kind of cultural revolution is necessary, because we consider public procurement - the construction sites, which have been discussed extensively - a fundamental opportunity for development. You have guessed the name - as often happens to this Government - which is absolutely evocative. The real struggle, however, is cultural, because the sector is still considered an endemic evil where evil, privileges, corruption and degradation are lurking. The decree-law under consideration is not enough. That is why we of Brothers of Italy are fighting and will always fight for this Assembly to see approved measures that we would call, rather than unblocking construction sites, sweep bureaucracy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u66	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u67	Mr President, I will return to a number of questions tomorrow when we consider the amendments. However, I would like to mention here in this House the sense of some political issues inherent in the measure and the long debate we have had in the Commission these days. First of all, we would really need a law that unblocks construction sites that will restart an important and decisive sector for our economy and lift from the torpor, in particular, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and its collaborators. Instead, this decree-law is not and is far from it, as I will try to explain. From this point of view, this measure must be considered absolutely a missed opportunity, unfortunately not only useless, but - I believe - also harmful. You have in fact decided - as my colleague, Senator Errani, has said well - to dismantle the procurement code, in the idea - frankly denied by the numbers - that it is the cause of the stalemate of public works. It's not like that. Last year the public works, the notices and the awards have had a marked increase and decided, as shown by the data of the Cresme. The thesis is therefore fallacious. There are many other reasons why there are delays. One of them is the lack of reform of the qualification and reduction in the number of contracting stations. This measure not only does not deal with the issue, but it moves completely against the trend, even allowing it to no longer rely on the purchasing power stations, which were a first important step forward. It also abhors the guidelines that the DAC should have issued to accompany the code (which it has largely done) - i.e. the so-called soft law - to replace them with the regulation, which you are committed to having approved within one hundred and eighty days. I wish. The last time the regulation took four years to be approved. For as long as the Regulation is not approved, guidelines will remain in force which refer to a code that is exceeded by the measure under consideration. The confusion in the contracting stations will be enormous and the difficulty of entrusting jobs, following them and making them complete and correct will be even greater. It's more than unlocking construction sites! I challenge you: we will see how many races have been blocked in a few months. You have all heard the concerns of the DAC, on which President Cantone has returned today. The measure is not only not effective in unblocking the works, it also contains criminal and very dangerous elements from the point of view of transparency. The threshold of legality is so low. We have not even called Mr Cantone to the Commission to listen to him, but we will be back. The thresholds have been defined also of 350.000 euros with possibility to entrust the works for private negotiation, without a real contest. Even back to the lowest price mechanism up to the threshold of 5.5 million euros, and we had set it at 2 million euros. The lower price criterion is equivalent to less protection for workers and less guarantee of the quality of the works. The names of the directors of the works and testers in the general contractors are abolished. This is absolutely crazy, because this gives the possibility to a general contractor to entrust, intuitu personae, tasks (also of the value of millions of euros) to those who want. Above all, there is a total retrograde to the fundamental foundation, which I will always defend, contained in the code, i.e. the centrality of executive design and, above all, the distinction between the enterprise that it realizes and the third designer, with respect to both the administration and the enterprise. On the contrary, he puts again the designer under the clutches of the enterprise, substantially reducing and demeaning his work and, at the same time, the centrality of the design. Mr President, I hear you chirping. Don't tell me I've run out of time. May I have another minute because I want, correctly, to highlight the work done by the rapporteurs, Senators Santillo and Faggi, with the direction of Senator Patuanelli, who have accepted our proposals and have eliminated some of the ugliness. If you don't allow me to list them, I come back to talk about the bad things that have remained in it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Margiotta, I remind you that the time of your speech sets it by your Group and not by the Presidency. MARGIOTTA (PD). I know, Mr President, but I wanted to give more time for speeches. I insist only on one point, which seems to me to be negative, and on which I conclude. Mr President, the discipline of the Commissioners is insane, as it is written today. It is not said what works a commissioner can be appointed to: theoretically, on all. It is not said what kind of criteria the Commissioner must have, of good repute and professionalism, in order to play the role and, above all, it is written that he can operate by way of derogation from the laws. You give him a huge power, this criminal yes. We will fight against these things tomorrow and we really hope to be heard. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u68	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the League is proud of this measure, which, for an important part, more than twenty articles, still deals with the earthquake victims, because of the earthquakes that have affected many parts of our country over the years. The decree-law deals mainly with the reconstruction of the earthquake that last year hit Molise and part of the Province of Catania, Sicily. Here it is expected that two special commissioners will be appointed for reconstruction, one for each of the two areas, chosen in agreement with the regional presidents. A budget of almost 260 million is planned for five years to cover expenditure. For private reconstruction, up to 100% of the costs incurred are expected to be recognised. Public reconstruction of public buildings, churches, cultural heritage and interventions to provide services by negotiated procedure are foreseen. An urban free zone is established for businesses and also for professionals. Then we also intervene for the 2009 Eagle earthquake. To the contribution of ten million to the city of L'Aquila, already planned for this year, in the amending phase we have added ten more for 2020. And it is hoped that tomorrow we will approve the extension, throughout the current year, of the deadline for companies to report and comment on the measure opened by the Commission of the European Union for State aid declared unlawful. Above all, in this decree-law we still intervene with many measures for the earthquake of Central-Italy of 2016 which, in fact, is and will be for many years the largest shipyard in the country, that of reconstruction, which must give hope for the rebirth of those affected communities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For Central Italy, after the important measures introduced by this Government by Decree No. 55 - moreover the last had been issued by Gentiloni - with the decree extends July terms, with the decree for Genoa of September and with the 2019 budget law, other new measures have been introduced in this decree, already at its enactment, and others have been further improved and increased during the conversion phase. It is the confirmation, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this majority, especially the League and the Interior Minister Salvini, have at heart the earthquake communities, which have never been lacking and will never lack support in the future. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would remind you that in these four measures we have included a large number of measures, over sixty, for the benefit of families and businesses. We have modified urban regulations, appreciated by almost forty thousand professionals working in the crater area, among engineers, geometers, architects and geologists. For example, we have regularized - and I would like to remind you - the small discrepancies in private buildings that paralysed the reconstruction and repair of damaged buildings. We have included - I remember - many fiscal measures, such as the extension to 2020 of the urban free zone, increasing from 60 to 120 the installments of the heavy pay envelope, and we have excluded until 2020 from the income the buildings that cannot be used for the calculation of the ISEE, for the purposes of Irpef and the income of the companies. With this decree, especially for Central Italy, we are still working in these last hours and in the last minutes for the largest construction site in the country. Unlocking to rebuild: this is how the League has always understood its commitment to the earthquake communities. The League wants the municipalities to be the protagonists in the reconstruction and we have created the conditions so that the mayors and the municipalities can become it: central and protagonists. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Coltorti]] The municipalities, in fact, can optionally - I emphasize - carry out directly the preliminary investigation of private reconstruction operations classified as "b" and "c" (light reconstruction) and at "e" level, that is, heavy demolition and reconstruction. This measure, together with that which provides for the recruitment of 350 fixed-term employees in the municipalities themselves, which I hope will be approved tomorrow, will lead to an epochal turning point in reconstruction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Coltorti]] For the municipalities, again, it was provided the refreshment of the exemption of the advertising tax and the public land occupation tax for the commercial exercises in the crater, which therefore had further aid from the Government and Parliament. For public reconstruction, significant simplifications are envisaged for the assignments of design tasks: direct assignments for tasks of less than € 40,000 and higher thresholds for simplified negotiated procedures. For the private sector, however, we have introduced a further four-month extension of the deadline for the start of the repayment of the heavy paycheck payments: basically, the first reimbursements, instead of taking place from June, jump to the end of October of this year. The exemption of stamp and registration tax for applications, contracts and documents submitted to the public administration was extended for 2019. The benefit of the urban free zone, which we had extended to 2020 in the budget law, has also been extended to professionals. Finally, the ban on the sale of the destroyed and inexhaustible building already receiving aid was lifted, which in fact prevented reconstruction work. Other important innovations are - for example - the criteria established to avoid the concentration of contemporary tasks to professionals in private reconstruction: what is not superfluous - I stress - since few enterprising technicians have created real monopolies representing, there in the crater, funnels and, therefore, delays in interventions. What then about the rule that, respecting the unique text of the environment, finally introduced the limit to the presence of asbestos in the rubble? We will at last avoid the blocking of the removals, which happened many times in the past, even because of the presence of a small amount of this dangerous rejection. The last measure I want to stress is that which aims to prevent depopulation and abandonment, especially in small countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For municipalities with more than 50 percent of properties declared inaccessible and destroyed, authorisation is provided for the installation of temporary and removable housing facilities. Let me say that Grandma Peppina with her little house, for which - we claim - the determination of the League allowed the dissecting and therefore the use, represented an example to be able to follow and authorize throughout the area of the crater. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I should like to conclude, not before I thank the rapporteurs, Mr Faggi and Mr Santillo, my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Public Works, Mr Rixi, Mr Crimi, and, above all, the Offices, who have developed a great deal of work. For the earthquake communities there is still much to do, but we are convinced as League that, continuing to listen to the affected territories, populations, mayors, professionals and employers' associations, we are really defining more and more measures and tools to do well and accelerate reconstructions. During the recent European elections, those earthquake communities of Central Italy that remember the SAE (emergency housing solutions) of Renzi arrived with years of delay - expensive (even 5,000 euros per square meter), many of which are falling apart - gave over 40% of the League's approval, a figure that certifies that citizens and entrepreneurs affected by the earthquake are appreciating our commitment, deciding to put their trust in this Government and the League for a rapid reconstruction. Thank you, Mr President, I have finished. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u70	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u71	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is simple corrective and does not unlock yards. It is the best assessment of this measure that I have heard in the Commission during the hearings of representatives of the various economic and business worlds and associations representing our local authorities. Many, many, indeed, are the problems of this text. It is evident the Government's intention to put in a piece to curb the dismay of public opinion and businesses caused by the extemporaneity of stopping the country's public works. However, as always, with a piece in it, the result produced is not conclusive and optimal and the proposal is partial, insufficient and in many parts wrong. I want to make some considerations. First of all, it should be noted that among the folds of the decree-law, which should be an urgent measure, there are at least 15 decrees and implementing measures that the Government must adopt, but not only. For the adoption of the Single Regulation, for example, which will replace the ANAC Guidelines and the implementing decrees of the Procurement Code, the deadline is 19 October. The timing, therefore, will not be those of immediate operating standards, as would require the stalemate of public works. The same applies to the extraordinary commissioners, who should deal with priority infrastructure interventions, to appoint one or more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Infrastructure, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs, without a peremptory term, for which he stands horse. We speak of extraordinary commissioners for interventions on the road network of the Sicily Region, for the reconstruction in the province of Campobasso and for the 30 municipalities of the metropolitan area of Catania, for the exemptions IMU and TASI, for electricity, gas, water and telephone for distracted or inaccessible buildings, for the earthquake of 1980 and 1981 in Campania, Puglia, Basilicata and Calabria (forty years), Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche, Umbria and I remember the attention to the streets of Spoleto, which is the leader among the Municipalities of the crater of Umbria. With the same decrees are provided the terms, the modalities, the timing, the possible technical support, the activities connected to the realization of the work and the compensation for the extraordinary commissioners. Therefore, the main measures of this decree-law require further implementing rules which are certainly not very short-term. In essence, there are few yards that will be able to be unlocked before the end of this year; therefore, the impact of this decree-law on the economic growth of 2019 will be laughable, if not null. Very worrying is the return to the system of the maximum decrease, which risks producing an alleged acceleration of the realization of the works, that would happen, however, only at the moment of the custody, with obvious risks, instead, for the realization phase, that is the most important one, deriving from a less containment of the Azzardi in the phase of offer. The price must be aligned with awards, references and certifications that the professional has. All you have to do is make exaggerate discounts and make the war of the poor. [[Applause from Senator Toffanin.]] The risks to the quality of employment are also very obvious. Specifically, in sub-threshold contracts, the criterion to be used preferentially is defined in the lower price, albeit corrected by the method of automatic exclusion of the abnormal offer. I am thinking, for example, of security personnel: they cannot be paid downwards. The revision of the regulation of the automatic exclusion of anonymous offers is inadequate to the objective (to limit the excess reduction), and could favour - here is the risk - the return to cartel agreements, as there is no efficient anti-disturbation mechanism. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Fortunately, thanks to the adoption of an amendment of ours, the rules on exclusion clauses that provided for the possibility of excluding the company from the competition in case there was no payment of contributions and taxes, even in the presence of disputes not concluded. Some immediate benefit will come for the small and very small races, where the effort of simplification of the Government should give a shock reducing the time of award. But it is still a question of tenders to be banned, not of yards put or put back into production immediately. Even the system of regulatory incentives (and tax incentives in the decree-growth law) to trigger urban regeneration operations through demolition and reconstruction of entire buildings does not convince operators who judge both bonuses too weak. On the investment front, the real game, as I said before, is played on the commissioners' table. The Minister for Infrastructure Toninelli announced the arrival of a first amendment - we are waiting for it - to give a Commissioner the task of putting in place the Gran Sasso water safety projects. The way of the amendment to speed up individual works or plans is, however, very risky because it can trigger a race to jam the decree-law of ad hoc norms instead of making an agreement, soon and well, on the works and plans to be unblocked by a decree of Palazzo Chigi. Without this key step that really starts the Commissioner's season, the ambition to reboot quickly will remain so. Not to mention, then, the boomerang risk of a new braking of the calls because of the necessity of the contracting stations to adapt documents and procedures to the burst of new arrivals. The decree-law as a whole seems, therefore, twisted and not usable immediately. It is likely to complicate the state of affairs, it concerns little the environmental aspect and is almost all concentrated in the regions of the South, but I remember that the great earthquakes occurred also in the regions of the North, like Friuli, which is not at all named. In the unblocking of construction sites, then, there is no provision for the most important thing: prevention. The decrees-laws and laws in general are always made at random. I recommend that we really pay attention to prevention, by investing resources now to save money in the future, and not just save money, but very often human lives. Our territory is fragile. In fact, how can we talk about seismology, interventions and more if we have not yet covered Italy with geological maps, with Cargo projects that allow us to know and prevent, with an overall geological mapping, before predicting new public or building works? Otherwise I call to build on the clay. It is therefore necessary to make geological maps immediately. It would be like building a skyscraper without the project. In unlocking yards there is still too much power at DAC, but those who follow will specify it. The local authorities, which are the most concerned, confirm the disorientation of local public officials: for the municipalities there are too many variables to consider, the obligations to be carried out and the acts to be issued after the adoption of the new code, with normative confusion and contradiction with the jurisprudence in this matter, with guidelines sometimes considered unclear. There are many passages of the Court of Auditors that we have heard, in which it is evident the existence of several recurring problems that can be grouped in two great questions, one of which is the difficulty on the part of the contracting stations to correctly apply the legislation in the matter of identification of the contractor, with frequent recourse to direct custody, even outside the cases allowed by law and of non-compliant use of the code of the institution of the custody in house, or of the recourse to the extension of the pre-existing contracts. This is why it makes a programme of strengthening, professionalising and specialising human resources, of technicians within public administrations operating in the field of procurement unparalleled. Many small municipalities, in fact, do not have these professionalism. Therefore, it is necessary to aggregate the procurement stations, which are currently more than 32,000, and to increase their size and competence. In simple terms, therefore, the decree-law under consideration will not do much good and will certainly not unlock anything in the short term, as they are planned: six months to draw up the new procurement regulation, rewriting 13 provisions of the old code; total absence of rules to simplify the way of the cross procedures; long time to appoint the commissioners; the risk of regulatory chaos. In conclusion, the key words with which the measure had started are missing: urgency, unblocking of the firm yards, Commissioners immediately, use of the 150 billion resources already allocated and never left. This umpteenth measure with an evocative and captivating title is actually another act that, inside a box inked, contains a series of accessories that will not solve the infrastructure and environmental problems of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unblocking law deals with one of the most important emergencies that this Government has had to deal with since it took office: the fact that many public resources, tens of billions of euros, are not being spent because of the complexity of the rules, the interpretation of the rules and the disputes that arise. This leads to severe delays in the implementation of public procurement, the blocking of huge resources already allocated that could be injected into the real economy, the proliferation of judicial disputes, but above all the deprivation, for citizens, of public services deliberated by the various administrations. The public procurement market, according to the latest estimates of the European Commission, is now worth on average in Europe about 2,000 billion euros per year and only in Italy in 2017 about 139 billion euros per year in respect of trusts amounting to 40,000 euros or more. However, let us also remember that a research by Tor Vergata University a few years ago shows how the waste in the procurement sector amounts to about EUR 30 billion per year (2 percent of GDP), of which 13% is due to corruption and 87% due to the inability and incompetence of technical offices and administrators. Over the last few months, the 8th Commission has carried out an enormous amount of work in the process of reforming the contract code, a work carried out mainly with the hearing of dozens of stakeholders who have highlighted critical issues and decisive proposals. This work, summarized by the speakers Santillo and Faggi, together with that of the undersecretary Vito Crimi, whom I thank, were fundamental in the drafting of the decree-law. By entering into the substance of the regulatory framework, a number of articles deal with how to simplify and reduce the interpretation of the specific public procurement legislation. However, I would like to concentrate on the second part of the text, which relates to the reconstruction of areas affected by seismic events. I am a Marche and the Marche Region is the one in which I live and where I have carried out my activity as a geologist and university researcher for decades. It is also one of the Regions of Central Italy that has suffered the most devastating effects of the earthquakes of 2016 and 2017. The previous Executive had already legislated with several decrees, followed by others, issued by the current Government, which, in changing step to speed up the reconstruction, have in fact simplified and healed some critical issues (see for example the building differences). Now, with this new decree-law, we are going to add further measures, which will lead to further deburocratization. In addition, new funding has been provided to address requests for accelerated reconstruction, both in terms of recruitment of staff and the strengthening of the structure responsible for examining requests for contributions. Other resources are intended to compensate for the higher expenses and lower revenues of the municipalities, including that of L'Aquila, hit by the seismic crisis of 2007 and still in a truly backward state of reconstruction. Greater contributions are made to the needs of the technical offices of the local sectors and the compulsory school, including nursery, road and public green. It was also envisaged, again by virtue of a sharp acceleration of the reconstruction, to give the municipalities concerned the possibility to manage the procedure relating to buildings affected by minor damage, in agreement with the special office for reconstruction. On minor damage, however - excuse me if I leave the technical aspect of the decree-law - it is necessary to remind me how many public resources have been wasted to shore the buildings with minor damage, instead of giving immediately the possibility to the private to act directly with the repair of their buildings, then to report the expense. There is a doubt that these unholy policies have not been driven by public interests; I personally believe that it is necessary to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry to check how the billions of euros allocated to the earthquake area have been spent, both for props, and also for the implementation of the SAE areas. It is recalled, to those who were not aware of it, that some aspects of reconstruction are open judicial procedures. For the public reconstruction, unfortunately firm to the pole for the bad and wrong choices of those who preceded us, with this decree-law is extended the possibility of entrusting technical services, including the elaboration of urban planning and the services under threshold, after consultation of ten professionals enrolled in the special register of the commissioner. The services can also be entrusted with the criterion of the lower price and not the maximum decrease, as many have feared. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] The lower price, easily calculable through an algorithm, prevents excessive reductions, which then affect the quality of the materials and the professionalism of the staff used. Of great importance is the increase in expenditure recognised by the Commissioner to professionals for surveys and specialist performance, such as the local seismic response (which has not yet been included), geological analyses, environmental and landscape relations. These analyses make it possible to raise the safety thresholds enormously and therefore to deal with future earthquakes with greater serenity. The danger thresholds of the rubble containing asbestos are also redefined, allowing to transport to landfill heaps of rocks and lands with really ludicrous percentages of asbestos. In addition, compensation was provided for the lower income in the municipalities as a result of the exemption of municipal taxes on advertising and the permit fee for the employment of public areas. An article concerns the simplification of procedures for the recovery of damages suffered by economic activities that have been carried out outside the Region. It is a measure covering sectors between the four regions affected by the earthquake. The rapid donation of the contribution will allow to resume the activity, sometimes at a short distance from the original damaged place, ensuring that the territory does not become depopulated and avoiding one of the main problems of the seismic area. One of the most important provisions of the decree consists in the procedures of activation of the IT-alert system, which no one mentioned. Current technologies allow real-time warning messages in the event of a disaster. It is a rule that the country has been waiting for a long time and that must gradually be extended to all regions. In practice, during an event, the office in charge launches an alarm warning who is equipped with the simplest receptors, such as a mobile phone, of what areas or roads to avoid and how to behave to cope with the disaster and emergency. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The Government of the change with this decree brings a substantial contribution not only to the acceleration of the reconstruction processes of the areas affected by the earthquake, but begins a virtuous path to deal in a functional and immediate way with emergencies. We want our beautiful territories hit hard by natural disasters to return to normal as soon as possible, through the rebuilding of local communities, economic growth and the usability of the areas. We will work tirelessly for this. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u74	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Santillo. I would remind my fellow rapporteurs that they had one hour and used fifty-nine minutes. I'm not saying we replicate in a minute, but in a little more.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u75	Mr President, I will try to be very quick. I would like to remind all my colleagues that this measure is not decisive for the whole code of contracts because, as they will remember, we have incardinated the draft law delegated to the Government for the reordering of all the matter; instead, from what emerged during the discussion, it seems that the intention was to resolve the problems of contracts in Italy with this measure, but that is not the case. The measure is a so-called unblocking yards, because for us to hit the real cancer of contracts in this country we had to hit the award procedures and this is how we wanted to intervene by changing paradigm and, instead of preferring the most economically advantageous offer in contracts under threshold, we move to the open offer with procedure at the lowest price. I would remind you that this is a transparent procedure and it has nothing to do with the possibility of more accidents in the workplace or the fact that there are black workers. The same is true of the fact that PD linked raw materials to the percentage of subcontracting. I would like to remind you that there are some infringements reported by the European Union such as Italy's obligation to go towards 100% of subcontracting, we do not feel it, we have increased to 40%. I can also say that the will to make sure that the competitor cannot be a subcontractor is indicated by Europe, but we know well how the work is going in our country and therefore for us that can be a way for cartel agreements that absolutely must be prohibited, because behind it you can nest the mafias. In conclusion, I would like to remind Senator Gallone that the earthquake that occurred in Irpinia has left not only dead, but serious wounds on the territory, so the Lioni-Grottaminerda grafts into one of these paths, to recover infrastructure and to ensure that citizens can move from one region to another. The President of the 8th Commission, Mr Coltorti, first made it clear how to talk about the maximum fall is completely different from talking about the lowest price. I would remind you that in Article 97 of the Procurement Code, the application of the formula provides for the calculation of the sum and the average of the rebates. The expression "maximum decrease" is invented by you. I conclude by saying that in the Commission we have done a good job, some amendments have been collegial, such as the one aimed at removing the maximum of 30% of the economic offer within the most economically advantageous offer and especially in Articles 6 to 20, finally in this country we have intervened to help those populations affected by earthquakes up to now perhaps forgotten. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u76	I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u77	Mr President, I will try to be brief too. I shall touch on a number of points concerning both the part relating to the earthquake and the part relating to the issue of the Procurement Code. I would also like to mention one important thing: the Code of Procurement for a hundred years was regulated by a Royal Decree of 1985. With the creation of the European Community, in 1990, a series of legislative decrees were issued which tried to regulate the matter from 1992 to 2004, up to 163 in 2006, with its regulation, which is the decree of the President of the Republic n° 207 of 2010, for the reordering of the matter, in an attempt to reunite everything. From 2007 to 2012 there were 13 legislative decrees, some of them corrective, which intervened to try to regulate the rule again, and four decrees of the President of the Republic for implementing regulations. Following these, but only with the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/23/EU, 2014/24/EU and [EU], it was possible to arrive at the need for a further full update and revision, which resulted in Law No 50 of 2016, which is the current one (to which another corrective was applied, one year later, which amended 130 articles). The norm of the code of contracts and contracts is a regulatory compendium not only full-bodied, but rather articulated - as you know who is counting in its completeness - because it affects so many situations, trying to compress them in a code and adapting them to the needs that sometimes prove to be different from each other. This is proof of the fact that we have held seventy hearings in Commission 8a, thanks to the patience and capacity of President Coltorti, during which we have noticed not only that the needs are different from each other, but that sometimes even those of the same category are very diverse, so the situation is quite complex. What you've been trying to do here isn't a commercial, as I've heard, that aims to fix something. It struck me above all to hear from Senator Grasso, who I listened with great attention, the openness to probable illicits and corruption: he sees, Senator Grasso, I have always followed her with great attention as a magistrate, but I do not think it is a norm to be able to prevent illegals being committed or to favor them; It is men and women who ensure that a rule is applied correctly or not. I'm sorry, but I don't adhere to the theory that the content of the rules here laid down may favor corruption, although I repeat that I have followed it very closely, Senator Grasso. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the earthquake, I would like to reply to Mr Ferrazzi - whom I would like to hear without speaking on the telephone - who rightly pointed out, according to his reasons, that the decree shows good will, which has been translated into 1.35 billion, divided into four measures, which concern situations in which to intervene and which are not constituted by a lawn, but by rubble, where the seismic schism continues to go on for months and years. So what we tried to do, in addition to lightening the regulatory provisions that had to be simplified for the reconstruction and to implement the provision of money, was to combine the intervention with the emergency situation. Those who have been with Civil Protection and Fire Departments simply visiting the sites affected by the earthquake know that often, before the start of the work and to see something, the earth has to settle down because nature is difficult to control. I think it is a good measure, which does not claim to solve everything, but has the condition, the will, the strength and, above all, the determination to continue in that regulatory path, which has lasted for more than a hundred years and which still sees us here even if we are almost in 2020, in order to try to meet the different needs that each of us brings and that, in their differences, must be listened to. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u78	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u79	Mr President, we have followed the debate and the many speeches. I would like to thank my colleagues who have examined some of the points, but we must point out that many of the demands and proposals have not been fully matched. There is a narrative that does not correspond to reality. There are those who claim that the current procurement code has substantially slowed the country down and blocked the most important works. In fact, looking at the data, as we have also been exposed both in the cognitive survey and in the subsequent hearings, the procurement code has reduced corruptive phenomena. Italy has grown in the special ranking of countries where there is less corruption and assignments only in 2018 have grown by 30 percent. These are indicative data that were hopeful, all the more so because the code had to be in place now, but now we change everything. The narration that accompanied the revision of the code of contracts absolutely does not correspond to the reality. Of course, there are problems and we have tried to deal with them with our proposals and our amendments. For example, your proposal for a revision of the procurement code, pompously called unblocking yards, does not address the nodes that so many administrators of all political parties have repeatedly raised and are not the most economically advantageous offers. Therefore, it was not the guidelines or oppression by the Anti-Corruption Authority; it was not the negotiation procedures or thresholds. It was more than that. It was the lack of funding. If I think of the Anas cut, the state works entrusted to the Anas for 1.8 billion euros, that moves forward tens and dozens of yards around our country, you understand well what the problem is; other than unlocking yards! I also think of cost-benefit analyses (which are slowing down, if not blocking some strategic works in our country) and the plethora of purchasing power stations, with a country that struggles with changes. President Coltorti said so earlier. Some technicians are not prepared and are stuck on nothing compared to the contracts they are carrying out. Many purchasing power stations - now even widening them - do not have the appropriate professionalism for certain types of procurement; many cases of failure following the assignments: these things have been said in the Commission in the context of the survey. There is nothing of this in the proposal made with the decree-law. On the contrary, the lowest price is applied, the most favourable price, the decrease, call it whatever you want. We know what it has done in the past: lower wages, cannibalism between companies, less quality, less safety on construction sites (with what could happen). Or the elimination of the prohibition of subcontracting to the companies that participated in the contest: but what does this mean if not an agreement, a cartel between the companies that participate in the contract and then divide the contract itself? Reduce the role of the DAC and rely on a regulation that will be drawn up by the Government within one hundred and eighty days: I imagine that this regulation will be part of the ANAC guidelines. But if the ANAC guidelines were a problem because they blocked procurement in this country, how will we get past them if you bring them into the future regulation? So a debate, almost a rhetorical exercise, what is presented to us. Raising the threshold to 150,000 for direct trusts we know well what that means. Do we want to get back to that system? Was it the DAC's fault or was it the country going in a certain direction? And when we increase the contracting stations, do we or do we not pulverize the experiences, instead of centralizing them, at least at the provincial level, do I not say at the level of the city? So I can see in the future the increase in corruptive phenomena. We have spoken on this with a number of proposals; we shall see in the parliamentary debate. Mr President, I am closing with a final lock on the Commissioners. We have considered that the absolute powers which you will give the Commissioners to derogate from a number of procedures is a negative fact. But at least it's worth it. If you really want to appoint extraordinary commissioners, do it first of all for the strategic works on which you have shown hesitation, if not even will to block them. Then appoint Brescia-Padova, Verona-Brennero and Third Pass commissioners within a few days, for example. I do not want to dare mention the Turin-Lion on which there are contracts within the Government. Let us make sure that there is indeed a return, but ready to correct the distortions that those Commissioners, on the basis of the rules that you are approving, will be able to produce in the future. So it remains a negative judgment. We had made constructive demands and we were recognized, I said so before. Having not been there at least in the debate - then in the vote we do not know, since many things have changed and just see the content of the amendments tabled in this House - no response to our amendments and our requests, the judgment remains negative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrazzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u80	Mr President, this is not the first time that we have talked about extraordinary Commissioners. Objectively, already in 1997 the Prodi Government intervened through the prefiguration, the constitution and the identification of this figure. But it was a completely different issue, because it provided for the institutionalisation of extraordinary commissioners for works already planned, financed and blocked. It said: after the debate, once the country has determined the great objectives, it has financed the works, which for many reasons cannot be achieved, it is the extraordinary commissioner. And they were also planned for works of great strategic value for the country. Here, however, and today's debate has not affected this evidence, we are not talking about these works for two fundamental reasons, the first of which is LaPalissian: you define the figure of extraordinary commissioners for infrastructure interventions considered priority, but what are these interventions? Playing for paradoxes, suddenly, in our country, the majority could say that the plan of the pavements is priority because the citizens continue to break their legs walking through the cities and maybe one would forget about works such as those that the rapporteur has now spoken about, of fundamental works such as Brescia-Padova or Verona-Brennero. A list must be drawn up. You have to have the courage to put in black and white the works that you really want to unlock. Among other things, Mr President, there is a major real problem, because service contracts must be concluded, for example with Anas and RFI, for which billions are available. Citizens, territories and mayors are waiting to do those works and there is an indecent ballet going on with Anas and RFI, so these public structures no longer know what to do and we are not even in a position to know what the Government's intentions are. Then we do not know what the Commissioner wants to do and where the Commissioners are needed, and we will support this line, if the works are really important. The ballet is finally closed on service contracts and you have the ability to decide. By the way, with regard to the issue of purchasing power stations, we do not even know how many are in our country, because there are various hypotheses. Definitely from 30,000 to 40,000. Is it possible, in a country like ours, not to work on the rationalization and the qualitative increase of these procurement plants? This measure, we repeat, does nothing. I do not want to talk about it, because I have already mentioned it before, the issue of cities. You have said nothing, of course, about the amendment and Article 5 on urban regeneration. I have heard only such statements: with this measure we have aimed at a great plan of regeneration of the quality of life and technological innovation. It is not clear what the link between these words and the article is. Finally, with regard to the earthquake, we note that our amendment, 6.1, was adopted in the Commission. This amendment defines that Commissioners must work not only for relocation but, indeed, primarily for repair and reconstruction on the spot, because safeguarding the place where the communities have been affected and therefore the housing of those places is fundamental and we take note of this. Of course, however, all the shadow areas we talked about before remain and the fundamental question is that the municipalities, since they are often small, do not have the competence but above all do not have the human resources to manage ordinary administration, let's imagine to manage extraordinary administration, as in this case. So we will insist on and resume the amendments that go in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u83	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a request. I take it for granted, at this point, since the government's amendments have not yet arrived, that the deadline for sub-amendments will be extended until tomorrow morning. Tomorrow we have the national leadership of the Democratic Party convened for 3:30 p.m. Of course, we cannot ask for the House to be suspended all afternoon. However, we would ask that we resume the debate on the measure at 5 p.m. to have an extra hour to participate, after the question time that should end at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u84	We'll assess your request and then let you know. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u85	Mr President, I will try to be very quick, as I reserve the right to give more detailed consideration when considering the amendments. First of all, allow me to thank the rapporteurs, the Offices (who have worked tirelessly) and all my colleagues - both by majority and opposition - for the way in which the measure was dealt with in the Commission, I must say with calm tones and collaboration, trying to find solutions. We still have work to do in this House, as so many things need to be addressed. One thing I feel like saying is that the measure, in the first five articles, serves to unblock the yards and ensure faster procedures. In subsequent articles, however, it addresses the issue of the earthquake. The first articles also allow to unlock the largest yard in Italy, the one following the earthquake of 2016, because they contain simplification rules that can automatically apply, as introduced in the code of contracts, for public reconstruction following the earthquake of Central Italy. As far as the part about the earthquake is concerned, allow me to represent the following. I hear that this provision does not solve the problems. This provision comes later. This is a measure that adds simplification, bringing some extra elements; it will bring additional staff, will bring different models of processing applications for contributions and simplifications. The model that has been applied in particular to the earthquake of Central Italy has manifested, to date, all its failure. It's no use hiding it. If we are talking about failure today, it is because perhaps that model that has been applied - whoever has defined it, studied it and written it should simply acknowledge it - has failed. I repeat, that model failed. This is the reason why we apply a different model on the ethnic area and on Molise, which puts the municipalities at the centre and is the model that, with some intervention, we are trying to move also on Central Italy. We cannot, of course, intervene with a shock measure, completely canceling the current model, including governance, of the earthquake of Central Italy, as it would mean starting from scratch and unfortunately we cannot afford it. We must therefore take steps gradually, as is the case with this measure. For example, it is expected that the municipalities which are able to do so and have the will to do so will be able to assume the management of all the investigation of the sheets of type b), c), level e) and parameter L4, as approved in the Commission. It is recognized to the municipalities, in agreement with the reconstruction offices (USR), the possibility to choose methods of management of the instructors closest to the citizens, that can be more direct and easily verifiable. In fact, today' s big problem with citizens is that when they want to know about their own demands and the process they are following, they must actually follow a backward path, to the point of getting back to more and more distant offices. This is the model that failed. So let's put the municipalities back in the center. At this moment we put at the center the municipalities of Central Italy, without imposing anything and leaving the faculty to start this path, which we will experience because it can only bring something more. Maybe other municipalities, which initially will not decide to follow this path, will align in a short time. Probably; we will also be able to decongestant the USR, which will be able to deal with the heavy reconstruction, the a bit more complex and for which it needs great competence, and the public one, which is the even more problematic and firm one. Thanks to the simplification rules contained in the measure, public reconstruction can be accelerated. A fundamental rule, for example, is that for planning, urban planning and technical services up to 40,000 euros, municipalities will be able to rely on direct custody. You will tell me that this is already provided for in the Procurement Code, because that is the case. Too bad that this forecast had not been included in the earthquake of Central Italy. BELLANOVA (PD). Ask yourself a question and give yourself an answer. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. This forecast with the special legislation, made ad hoc for the earthquake of Central Italy, had not been included. Slower and more difficult legislation had been introduced than the Code of Procurement in ordinary situations. This was the paradox in which the Municipalities had found themselves: the most complex initial phase, that of the planning of the urban plans and anything else, was subject to a certain iter, but this already before the unblocking yards was simplified for all the rest of Italy. These rules have been introduced and others will be introduced during the examination of the bill here in the Senate. In fact, there are so many amendments by Members who are to be accepted because they will bring further innovative elements into the reconstruction process. Thank you all again. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSdaz groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u86	Thanks to Undersecretary Crimes. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u87	Colleagues, a moment of attention: I propose that tomorrow morning's 9 a.m. be set the deadline for submitting amendments to the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the Government, so that, again at 9 a.m., the Budget Committee can be convened to express its opinions. I propose that we resume the work of this House at 12 noon and then move on to the question time at 3 p.m. At 17 o'clock we will resume with the discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law unblocks yards, reminding everyone that it is not planned closing hours and, since I preside, I intend to keep to this pact. If there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u90	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I apologize if I make this speech today, but yesterday I did not have time to book. Yesterday, it was the 45th anniversary of the massacre in Piazza della Loggia, where a bomb during a rally caused the death of eight innocent and defenceless citizens and the injury of another hundred. From that day on, all kinds of interventions, falsifications, silences, lies and misconceptions were carried out, including by deviant sectors of the State, the secret services, all aimed at removing the possibility of ascertaining the truth. But, nevertheless, after forty-three years from the massacre and after three trials a final sentence recognized the criminal responsibility of the massacre in charge of Carlo Maria Maggi and Maurizio Tramonte, militants of the Venetian neo-fascism. The former was the local head of New Order and the latter, besides being a militant of the same organization, was an informant of the secret services, hidden under the pseudonym Triton. After waiting so long, we finally know the performers. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you to invite my fellow Members to silence: we are talking about a massacre in which people have died.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u91	Colleagues, let me ask you for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u92	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). As I said, after waiting so long we finally know the performers, but probably not all senders. From the procedural papers we learn that Tramonte, or the source Triton of the secret services, inspired an information at the then CIS (the Defence Information Service, that is, the military secret service), which dates back to July 1974, in which it was specified that in the previous months some meetings of the New Order had been held (the neo-fascist organization officially dissolved the previous year) during which it had been decided to resume secretly the subversive activities. In one of these meetings, held three days before the massacre, Carlo Maria Maggi had stated that a great attack had to be organised and that it was necessary to continue in the wake of the massacre strategy begun on December 12, 1969 in Piazza Fontana (strage also matured in the environments of the Venetian neofascism). The objective was to instill fear, chaos, terror in the population and, therefore, to create the basis for the outbreak of a real national conflict that could only end with limited measures of freedom and armed confrontation: this, of course, in the intentions of the exversors. The re-reading of the sentence on the massacre in Piazza della Loggia is reopening a wound never healed. The papers show that the secret services and General Gianadelio Maletti knew perfectly well what was happening at those moments and what the neo-fascist terrorists were organizing, but they did not stop them in any way, nor did they inform the magistrates after the massacre. In the sentence it is written in cubital characters that the culprits are Maggi and Tramonte, but that, I read: "Others, equally responsible, have left this world or even only this country, placing a tombstone on the too many interweavings that have characterized the criminality even institutional at the time of the bombs". This makes me understand - and I begin to conclude - the overall picture of those years, in which an undeclared war was fought in Italy, which some define at low intensity: on the one hand, there were paramilitary groups pervaded by a mad ideology and bloodthirsty (which, as said, could use unconfessible institutional banks and count on unspeakable international agreements) and, on the other, there were innocent and helpless citizens. The symbolic places of this clash were Piazza Fontana, Piazza della Loggia, the Milan police station and Italicus. On the 45th anniversary of the massacre piazza della Loggia, remembering the victims, I end this intervention by adding a single sentence: it must never happen again. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-115.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 30 May, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.11 a.m.
