ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, since the Conference of the Leaders is still in progress, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference. (The sitting was suspended at 4:37 p.m. and resumed at 5.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, as you know, in the early hours of Sunday in Iraq a vile ambush perpetrated through an explosive device has seriously injured five Italian soldiers. Their task - I stress with gratitude and pride - is to support and train local troops against the danger still represented by the militiamen of ISIS. A commitment that our country has undertaken and carries out, as well as in all the most difficult scenarios of the Planet, to promote peace and bring help and assistance to the civilian populations. The same commitment that, on November 12, 2003, again in Iraq, in Nassiriya, saw the sacrifice of two Italian civilians and seventeen soldiers, who fell for the Homeland, that we cannot and must never forget. Allow me, then, to wish Andrea, Emanuele, Marco, Michele and Paolo a speedy recovery and a greeting to their comrades and their families. Allow me again to thank all women and men in uniform, who with dedication, professionalism and humanity represent the pride of the entire nation. In the memory of the martyrs of the massacre of Nassiriya, I invite you to a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u5	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the schedule of proceedings until 6 December. The current week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions on the draft budget law and the decree-climate law. On Tuesday 19 November, the financial year 2018 and the Senate's draft internal budget for 2019 will be discussed, when the requirements of Article 165 of the Rules of Procedure have been completed. Next week's calendar also provides for the discussion of the decree-climate law on Wednesday 20, with suspension between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. and on Thursday 21. The week from 25 to 29 November will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In the week from 3 to 6 December the state budget for 2020 will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of November and December 2019: - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Documents defined by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings until 6 December: The week from 12 to 15 November is reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 19 November h. 16.30 - Doc. VIII, Nos. 3 and 4 - Statement for the financial year 2018 and draft internal balance sheet of the Senate for the year 2019 (where the obligations provided for by Article 165 of the Regulation have been completed) - Draft law no. 1547 - Decree-Law no. 111, Climate (expires on 13 December) (from Wednesday 20) Wednesday 20 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 21 " h. 9.30-20]] The week from 25 to 29 November will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 3 December h. 16 - Draft law n. 1586 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2020 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 4 " h. 9.30 Thursday 5 " h. 9.30 Friday 6 " h. 9.30]] The Budget Committee will conclude its work on the Draft Budget Act in time to be able to report to the Assembly on Tuesday 3 December. The deadline for amendments to draft law No 1586 (Budget) will be fixed in relation to the work of the 5th standing Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1547 (Decree-Law No 111, Climate) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 35' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 50' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 37' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1586 (State budget for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022) (30 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 3h Minority Rapporteurs 1h Government 3h Votes 5h Groups 18 hours, of which: M5S 4h 5' FI-BP 2h 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 2h 46' PD 2h 8' FdI 1h 38' IV-PSI 1h 36' Mixed 1h 35' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 1h 21' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u10	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, while I agree with the timetable that was decided by the Conference of Leaders, I would like to explain our vote against the timetable. Already last week, in a very clear way, on the contrary, I apologise for not being sufficiently clear and detailed both at the Conference of the Leaders, and in my speech in this House, we have asked - I am trying to make this clear - for the presence of President Conte in this House to explain the disaster of the former Ilva and the abandonment of ArcelorMittal as a result of a breach of contract. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]] We do not use this event to defend a company, but to defend 20,000 jobs, the right to employment and health of tarantinos and the right of Italians not to lose the steel industry that has made our country the main partner for all companies that wanted to invest in that sector. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (17.20) (BERNINI followed). This will no longer be the case because of the inability of this Government to deal with the situation. Colleagues, I have asked President Conte to report because what is happening in the government is a carousel of voices that say different things. This certainly helps the chaos, it helps the continuation of this strange group of government, but it does not help the credibility of our country on an international level and does not help the tarantini; it does not help the Ilva of Taranto, it does not help the plant of Genoa, it does not help the plant of Novi Ligure. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We need to know what President Conte's version is. We know that President Conte is consulting with his ministers today and that at last - we have been asking since last week - he is gathering his collaborators in a conclave and probably meeting his partners. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] If this is a demonstration of your ability to be in a democratic assembly, I congratulate you. Congratulations. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]] You're laughing at tarantine skin. I'd suggest you be a little embarrassed. You're laughing at tarantine skin. Have the ability to contain at least a little.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u11	Senator Bernini, I have not had time to intervene as I always do when those who are presenting a proposal or a point of view are interrupted. However, I would ask you, like my colleagues, to address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u12	I repeated at the Conference of the Leaders, and I repeat this in this House, what was not heard last week. We will ask every week for the presence of President Conte in the Senate to explain what he intends to do with the former Ilva and the skin, the work and the right to health of 20,000 tarantini and a section, I repeat, indispensable for our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why I ask, on behalf of my Group, Mr Forza Italia-Berlusconi, to be able to have President Conte in this House next week to explain what he has to explain to all of us or, if it is not next week, the week after that. Mr D'Incà gave us his reassurances, told us that he will consult President Conte and we believe him and thank him, but since he said so last week, we have refrained from voting on the timetable to see if this will really be the right time. We hope so, not in the interests of our Parliamentary Group or Parliament, but in the interests of the country and the tarantoes. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u13	For the sake of clarity, Senator Bernini, you are asking for President Conte to report to the House next week on the Ilva affair and to change the timetable accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u16	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group also calls for a change to the timetable. Specifically, we call for the President-in-Office of the Council, on a day of his choice and according to his willingness, to communicate to the Assembly on the issue of Ilva and on the question of conflict of interest, which are the two issues that we have been putting at the Conference of the Leaders for several days. We call for President Conte to make communications, in the sense that we want a political act and a precise vote to be taken by this House. In order not to repeat the words of Mr Bernini, on the Ilva case we have heard the President-in-Office of the Council declare on more than one occasion that he would also be willing to put back the criminal shield; on the other hand, we have heard Senator Lezzi declare that he would not vote for it even if the President of the Council put it back. We would very much like this debate to take place in Parliament and not in the newspapers, because this is the right place to debate and get to a vote, so that everyone assumes their responsibilities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP and FdI Groups]] To this end, I would remind you that the Democratic Party itself formally asked last week for President Conte to report on the Ilva issue, as a possible consequence of the intervention made by Minister Patuanelli at the event "Partita a bordo campo." A similar speech also concerns the issue of conflict of interest: we are not satisfied that President Conte has made an information to the House, in the sense that this should make us safe and secure. We have also called for the President-in-Office of the Council to communicate to the Senate, because we also want a clear and precise vote on this, given that President Conte has always declared himself available, ready, never fearful, transparent and willing to come and discuss all the sensitive issues. Well, if the conflict of interest, on the one hand, and the Ilva case, on the other, are not to be brought to the attention of this House, I wonder what they might be. This is therefore our simple request and we really hope that it will find acceptance by the Senate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u19	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise quickly to join the requests made by my colleagues in Forza Italia and the League regarding communications which we believe President Conte should make to this House about what is happening - and changes every day - for the fate of Ilva-ArcelorMittal. I would add that at the Conference of the Leaders we also asked for the possibility of using at least one hour - would be enough - to discuss our motion linked to the celebration of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, a motion that concerns the future and the fate of the orphans of feminicide and other very hot and very urgent issues. Finally, with regard to Ilva - and I am going to conclude - I too would like to say, if there were any need for it, that such a great and tragic issue for the fate of tens of thousands of people employed, families and for the same industrial destiny of the country deserves a detailed report from President Conte and a debate in this House, also because every day, as I said before, we read discordant statements from representatives of the majority on the future of Ilva itself, on the nature and future of the confrontation between the Government and the Franco-Indian company. It is in this House of the Senate that President Conte must report and where, if possible, the political nodes must be dissolved and the majority must fully assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u20	Mr Ciriani, if I understand correctly, you add the proposal to discuss the first-signed motion by Senator Rauti on 25 November. As there are no other proposals to change the timetable, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Bernini, so that next week the President of the Council will report to the Assembly on the Ilva issue. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Romeo, to include the President of the Council's communications on the Ilva issue and the conflict of interest in the week from 26 to 30 November. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Ciriani, to include the debate on the motion on violence against women at the first signature of Senator Rauti on 25 November. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for work, which was adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and which I communicated to the Assembly, remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u23	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, fortunately, there are not only episodes of bullying, violence and social intolerance among children, but we often find examples of solidarity and help to others. Among the many positive episodes, I want to mention here that of little Rebecca, whom I want to thank, who with her constancy, her availability and her love more than fraternal and disinterested, opened her friend, her classmate, on the world, letting her out of silence and loneliness. Rebecca, for her, had become so much more, the friend of the heart, the friend of everyday life. In Lucera, a small town in the province of Foggia, it was realized, in a simple and spontaneous way, without clamor or emphasis, a real miracle of humanity and solidarity, which goes beyond time and space, capable, however, of realizing the true respect of the human person in its whole physical and psychic. Little Rebecca followed her loving instincts and did what her soul whispered to her: to help her friend who was differently able and in serious difficulty. But for Rebecca it has always been the simplest and most natural thing to do over the years: a simple gesture, for her child, that may seem extraordinary for us adults. The serious disability of her classmate did not discourage her: her perseverance and her Carthusian commitment was rewarded. With her help, but not only, the classmate with severe disability came out of silence, starting a verbal communication, even if poor, with the whole class. Simple gestures such as caring for the partner, helping her to eat by staying close to her, creating a true and indissoluble bond, have perhaps achieved more or at least optimally completed the only rehabilitation therapies. With her friend of Moroccan origins, she had created a real empathy; in small, a real process of social integration, which went beyond the school relationship: a strong and indissoluble bond. Rebecca is a simple child, who lives in contact with nature, with excellent school results, practice sports and play piano. Its simplicity and loving dedication moved Italy as a whole and our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who appointed it together with twenty-eight other people "Constructors of community." With his affection and sensitivity, he created in the class a more open and inclusive environment, where diversity has become an opportunity for growth for all. In the construction of a community of solidarity, cohesive and tolerant, the spontaneity of little Rebecca, is much more incisive and cementing than so many words and so many speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u26	DI MICCO (M5S). Mr President, last week the Council of Ministers decided to dissolve the municipal council of Orta di Atella, in the province of Caserta, for the infiltration of organised crime. It is the second dissolution for the same reason in only ten years: predictable, for a municipality that has been the subject of aggressive building speculation, exercised to satisfy the appetites of unscrupulous entrepreneurs and criminals, who have devastated its social, economic and urban territory. It is in this same context, of a community marked by connivance with crime, that the news of a few hours ago is placed, about the aggression against the reporter Mario De Michele, director of a local journalistic newspaper, who in the past has been the victim of intimidating acts, precisely because of his activity of daily denunciation of facts that have seen the involvement of politicians, officials, professionals and entrepreneurs of the municipalities of Agro aversano and other equally problematic territories. As far as we know, the journalist would have been approached while driving his car by two individuals with a covered face, on board a scooter and armed with an iron bat, who would have slapped him, later damaging the body shop of the car, imputing to him the responsibility of the dissolution of the municipal council of Orta di Atella and ordering him to block another investigation, still in progress, concerning alleged illegal in the procedure of granting the use of a sports facility of the Municipality of Succivo, contiguous with that of Orta di Atella. Apart from the investigations that will follow, the situation is worrying: this is yet another unacceptable attack on a press professional who is guilty of doing his job in a territory characterized by a widespread presence of organized crime, which implements persecutory methods against anyone who tries to light a light on his criminal conduct. To Dr. De Michele and to the many journalists who daily have lived and live the discomfort of having to operate in territories so difficult and in conditions so precarious for the safety of their work and their personal safety, obviously goes our full solidarity and the closeness of all the institutions of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u27	We greet the City Councillors and the deputy mayor of the city of Bolzano. Welcome. [[Applause.]] We also greet, with particular pleasure on my part, the students of the State Science High School "Galileo Ferraris" in Turin, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u30	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, we consider the phenomenon of violence and abuse of children, perpetrated by those who should take care of them with affection, dedication and love, an extremely serious fact that deserves indignation and that, above all, should lead those who sit in the Republican institutions to urge the free and effective conduct of investigations. Those who must sanction it must ensure that the punishment is the most exemplary according to the laws; and those who must make the laws must do everything possible to ensure that prevention is at the highest level and maximum effectiveness. Precisely because this is our position, we do not tolerate that these problems, which are very serious and concern subjects who are in very vulnerable conditions, are "ridden" in a cynical, irresponsible and sometimes even in an inverbecable and unqualifiable way by political forces that have as their last thought the welfare of children, children and children, and as their first concern to draw a political profit from shameful campaigns. I say this because in recent days we have seen the publicity of initiatives that are really something very serious and that we consider unacceptable, because they are untenable combinations, and because they are real acts of political jackaling. I'm just going to give three examples. On Saturday, November 30 a conference is scheduled in Bergamo, it seems organized by ultra-traditional Catholic groups - as they are defined in the press -, which has the title "From Barbiana to Bibbiano"; I repeat, "From Barbiana to Bibbiano". It was presented as a convention that would be concluded by Senator Pillon; then Senator Pillon, when the controversy broke out, withdrew his participation in the convention. We are at the point of seeing Fr Lorenzo Milani and Barbiana approached, with all that they mean for civil Italy, for the Region from which I come, and for this nation in general, to a story like that of Bibbiano. Then there should be another conference, on December 9 in Florence, organized by the League, entitled "From Forteto to Bibbiano"; and a conference with the same title, on December 15 in Lucca, which has as an exceptional speaker the deputy Donzelli of Brothers of Italy, which has as its subtitle "The hands of the left on children." In these last two conferences the Commissioner of Forteto, appointed by the Minister for Economic Development, participates as a speaker: a representative of the State who is also the guarantor of childhood in his region and who, participating in these conferences, seems to me not to be a guarantor of childhood, but a person who lends himself to those who are exploiting it in an unworthy way. We in the Forteto do not give discounts to any of those who have made themselves responsible for the actions sanctioned by the judiciary. There is a committee of inquiry which was set up with our vote and which is why it leaves as soon as possible, but precisely for this reason we reject with indignation and firmness that this action of jackaling continues to be carried out, which is really a low moral as well as a political one. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u33	MOLES (FI-BP). Mr President, I take the floor at the end of the sitting - I would have liked to have done so earlier - to talk about what is happening in my region, Basilicata, which has been tormented since yesterday. Yesterday it was Potenza and the Potentino and today Matera, the whole Materano and Metapontino. It is a real tragic emergency situation. We have seen in these hours both on social media and on television many images and videos of the mud and water streams that have invaded Matera, the European capital city of 2019. Basilicata is not only Matera because the territories destroyed and martyred since this morning also belong to the province of Matera and Metapontino. I am here to ask on my behalf, as an elected senator in my region, Basilicata, but also on behalf of Forza Italia, for the Government to do whatever is necessary in these situations. I therefore call for the Government to recognise the state of natural disaster. We will not fail to support our citizens and I hope that the government will do the same quickly and reasonably. This is the only way to be of support to the territories; this is the only way to be of support to the citizens, who are all equal wherever they are, so that we do not remember Matera and Basilicata only when it comes to celebrating its beauty, but especially in times of crisis. At this time of crisis there are many citizens and companies in situations of extreme difficulty. It is right that the government is at the side of the Lucans and I hope that it will prove it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, since this morning the civilian population of Israel has been subjected to a massive missile attack. Probably several hundred arrived, certainly many tens, of which the last five minutes ago. They are attacks aimed at affecting the civilian population and come from the organization called Islamic Jihad in Palestine. This is considered a terrorist organization by the European Union, as well as by the United States, Canada, Great Britain, as well as of course by Israel. It is notoriously related to Iran. On 25 June last, I tabled my question 3-00935 asking the Government to respond to the Commission on politics with Iran and, that is, what account is taken of the objective situation of Iran and its relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran with respect to the total lack of respect for human rights, in particular for women, homosexuals and religious minorities; secondly, with respect to support for terrorism - which has been noted by many international bodies; and finally, with regard to the purpose - and not to the threat - and to the announcement of wanting to destroy the State of Israel in the coming years. I do not think we can ignore these circumstances, which - I repeat - are more than just threats. They are ads with countdown with a clock shown in a public square in Tehran. These things against any other country would arouse great international attention and reaction. There is no difference in this case and, in particular, today, when hundreds of missiles arrive on the civilian population of Israel, most of which are intercepted by the extraordinary defensive provisions of the State of Israel, which, however, are not impenetrable. Many missiles have arrived at their destination, fortunately they haven't hit people, but they could do it from one minute to the next. I do not think we can remain insensitive to this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-165.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.51 p.m.
