ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, on December 12, 1969, a vile terrorist attack struck the National Agricultural Bank of Milan. The victims of what has sadly passed through history as the massacre of Piazza Fontana were 17, to which 88 wounded must be added. It was a real frontal attack on Italian democracy, completed with three devices that exploded in the following minutes in Rome, causing an additional 16 wounded. Since that day, the country has experienced the darkness of the years of lead, of exversion, of the subversive attack on the rule of law. In the fifty years that separate us from Piazza Fontana, the massacred terrorism has been defeated, thanks to a unity of intent that has seen citizens, intermediate bodies and institutions defend democracy at all levels. In the fifty years that separate us from Piazza Fontana, however, the possibility of ascertaining the facts, of ascertaining the responsibilities has been lacking. No material executor, derailment and distortion have denied justice to victims, their family members, the entire country. That is why the institutions still owe them a debt of truth. Honoring this debt, even proceeding diligently to the descretation of acts, as we are doing with President Fico, means honoring the core principles of the Republic and the values of our civil life. I invite you to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u4	The next item is: Debate on the financing of policy I declare the debate open. Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. 9.41 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u5	Mr President, I do not hide from you that I am embittered enough to have to deal with such a sensitive and important subject for the democratic life of our country, not for an impulse or an act of this House, but because unfortunately it is driven by a judicial initiative that requires us a debate that will obviously not help to find solutions. I do not want to go into judicial matters, Senator Renzi - it is not up to us and it is clear that we have faith in the judicial authority - but I would like to say with great frankness that it has left us perplexed the way in which the investigation is being carried out, frankly not yet denied, concerning the use of almost 300 financial resources that went to the houses of people who were frankly unsuspectable at dawn. Perhaps this mode could be avoided. I would like to start with a question: what idea do we have of our democracy? I have to tell the truth: photography is bleak. In recent years the parties have been reduced to simple electoral committees - this is the truth - and it all began with the Letta Government. In order to caress the belly of the people, of the voters, with the search for blood, the role of parties as intermediate bodies has been removed. We betrayed the Constitutional Charter in Article 49. We have taken up the challenge not to improve the role of the parties, but to delete them. We have canceled public funding from the parties and we have reduced ourselves to asking for money from private individuals, who are obviously afraid to finance politics today, because with the arranged combination of the traffic of influence the day after you have done it you have the Finance Guard at home. You see what circuit we've triggered. The many open investigations of the last few days should make politics reflect, make a whirlwind of dignity to defend the primacy of politics, and not the caste. In fact, we are defending here, not the caste, but the concept of democracy that we have. I do not want politics to be subject to finance, to the economy; politics must not go to beg money and I want all parties to have the same chance to speak to the sovereign people; then who has more appeal maybe raises private funds is what is unfortunately not happening. Nobody denies the crooks, the crap that happened, but here they threw the dirty water with the baby. And, therefore, today we are going back to discussing politics and electoral committees when there are electoral deadlines. We have deleted the sections of the parties; there is no longer any debate in the individual municipalities. Let's not fool ourselves, let's not fool the Italians by saying that there are social media! But the comparison is made with a tweet, with a selfie, with a live one and all behind with the hearts and likes? Is this the policy that we all want for our children? This shit sucks to me. I say this very clearly: this certainly serves to entertain, but not to build an idea, a country project. I therefore consider it useful, Mr President, to re-introduce public funding to parties in this country, with much tighter links and tighter controls. Unfortunately, I do not see Senator Lannotti here, but I would like the National Consumer Association - and therefore the citizens - to join the supervisory bodies. It is like that example that I made on the highways: because on the highway there is the risk that someone exceeds the speed limits, it has been decided to close them, instead of putting more tutors and controls; the same happened to the party system. I shall conclude, Mr President, because unfortunately time is tyrant, and I would also like to address the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars: make a qualitative leap, because you are now a government party and you are in the button rooms; you cannot hide or continue with a narrative that does not tell the truth. I do not allow myself to throw strails or suspicions on the Srl of the House, but you cannot fail to report that it is a vulnus and that it is an anomaly that in a democracy a Srl controls the largest parliamentary group. Imagine if in the Christian Democracy of the First Republic the largest group had been controlled by a Srl. [[Call the president back.]] I would ask you for one more minute, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u6	I already gave it to him.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u7	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). This is the photograph of the weakness of politics. I therefore very much hope that the whole of Parliament will have a sense of dignity. You see, Mr President, in all European countries there is a system of public funding for parties. Do you know where he's not? There is not in Andorra, Malta - and the current news tells us how that system works - and even in Ukraine. Why then should we be afraid to speak the language of truth to the Italian people in a competitive system? I hope that from now on there will be a leap of dignity to defend not this House or the caste, but our concept of democracy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u9	Mr President, I had prepared a speech which, in all honesty, I will not read, because, in rethinking at this moment and after hearing Mr Saccone, I have thought of other considerations. The previous colleague invited the Movimento 5 Stars to make a qualitative leap. It's strange to see how sometimes views change in the various situations of life, Senator Saccone. I am proud to be part of the Movimento 5 Stars from the beginning, first as an activist, then as a city councilman and finally - as you all know - after being paralyzed in bed for months and having gone to the wheelchair, as a senator. I see so many strange and particular situations, such as yesterday's, when we insulted ourselves, we said everything and more and suddenly we stood up to greet the new President of the Supreme Court. Since the 5 Star Movimento arrived, the funding of the parties has changed, pushing on Letta, who removed the public and turned it into private: in fact, however, the sensitivity to transparency has changed. Today, the Commission on the financing of parties that can start and the ensuing debate we have on this sensitive issue tend to bring the transparency that the citizens are asking of us, which we expect of us. Moving forward with such a Commission, and therefore with such a modus faciendi which brings again the contribution, perhaps of private individuals, is transparency. I am proud, as a citizen, to finance a party or a movement or whatever it does transparency and give me a service. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I'm not ashamed. We're really far from those words. The citizens are really far from those words. I don't have to fund a foundation secretly because my funding doesn't have to come out. If my contribution serves to finance a company or a foundation that makes a service, as Rousseau does for us and for all citizens, I am proud to participate in the financing of Rousseau, because it offers me training, makes me choose, makes me vote, makes me participate. I'm proud to have met Gianroberto Casaleggio, to have shook his hand. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, on the media anyone can write about anything; they can say anything; they can try to muddle us. This is today's game: try to pull down the annoying part, which is the Movimento 5 Stars. I'm glad to bother you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As far as the issue of transparency in the financing of parties is concerned, we are absolutely in favour. Since it has been said, even in television programmes, by excellent personalities, that there is the possibility of returning to public funding, we clearly say that we will always be against the public funding of parties. We will always say no, because the participation of all citizens is what will change politics; because everyone's cultural shot will be the difference in this world. And if we all commit ourselves to taking that cultural shot, it is an account; if, instead, someone plays with the ignorance of people, that yes, it is a really regrettable game. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u10	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u11	Mr President, let this debate well come, because the financing of policy is a serious and sensitive issue, which does not deserve to be shredded into minor and instrumental polemics. Perhaps, however, it would have been more useful for the Senate to start from the head of the problem and not from the tail; that is, not from the financing of the state but from the state of our democracy, from the conditions of Parliament and from the role of the parties. The problem of financing is easily solved, in one sense or another, only if you want to do so; while restoring strength to a mortified democracy is much more difficult. The Italian institutional crisis is systemic. Its central point is certainly not the unresolved issue of the financing of politics as the decadence of Parliament, increasingly eroded by the decree-law circuit, maxi amendment, confidence. It is now clear that this progressive breakdown is nothing more than the other side of more radical designs, which have as their objective a democracy very different from ours. Until now, in the seventy years of the Republic's life, the constitutional structure of the state leadership had never been seriously questioned. And never in the past had he seriously doubted the parliamentary and representative nature of our democracy. It's not like that anymore. Clearly or implicitly, the centrality and role of Parliament are shaken and weakened by a progressive subtraction of functions and the simultaneous emergence of new institutional approaches. That is why we should rewind the tape and resume from the beginning the debate on the quality of our highest institutions, to choose to modernise representative democracy - as many say - leaving its supreme principles intact; or - as others say - adopt radically different models such as so-called direct democracy or authoritarian, leader, sovereign and anti-European forms. Until this bottom node is dissolved, the political battle will continue on other plans. Today is the turn of the financing of politics; yesterday of the reduction of the number of parliamentarians; the day before yesterday of the vitalitys; tomorrow of the confirmation referendum, of the online vote, of the closing of the ports, of the denigration of the judiciary, of the Bank of Italy, of the high public administration. There is consistency in the choice of these positions, but it is not constructive coherence. On the contrary, it has the effect of destroying important rules without caring for the consequences. In this cultural context, the issue of the financing of parties to which the Constitution, in Article 49, assigns the task of contributing to the democratic determination of national policy should be addressed. Of course, politics has a great responsibility for the non-implementation of Article 49, but nevertheless the parties, movements and leagues, in their pluralism, remain for the citizens the only indispensable form of aggregation and representation around a political line and a demand for participation. All democracies have been faced with the very delicate issue of the healings and parliamentary allowances for the highest offices of the State and the judiciary, with the basic objective of guaranteeing independence, autonomy, authority and decorum to organs representing the nation and guiding its fate. It is enough to read the acts of the constituent assembly to understand the important public interest that the constituent Fathers have assigned to Parliament's self-dichia and financial autonomy, as well as to parliamentary immunity, inviolability, insinability, parliamentary allowances and the independence of the judiciary. The financing of politics, which we should call the financing of democracy with more ownership, has the same ratio: it recognises that in a democracy the exercise of politics and the representation of citizens have the value in a real public good that must be supported to prevent distortions and degenerations. In the past, there have been times when some people's mistakes and misdeeds in managing public funding have deeply shaken public opinion, but it is not a good doctor who prescribes such a strong medicine to treat a disease to make the sick die. Even with all the limitations of a young democracy, the system of weights and counterweights designed by the Constitution has allowed us to grow, overcoming the post-war era, the fascist stragism, the red and black terrorism, Italian and international, the mafias and the severe economic crises. Some say that parties and movements should only be financed by private individuals. I heard it repeated earlier by a five-star group senator. This is happening in democracies other than our own by legal order and culture. There it may happen that for the election of the President the raising of private funds accounts more than the program; just as it happens that the President, once elected, in practice takes account of the interests of those who financed him also by attributing to the major financiers of his electoral campaign public offices and even the office of ambassador in very important countries. That is why reduced public funding for parties and movements is also necessary. It serves to guarantee their independence and their autonomy from the great economic powers; a financing which - as it is planned today - leaves the choice to the citizens whether and to whom to allocate a minimum fraction of their tax returns, or, in the alternative, a financing that provides the reimbursement of services vital to the activity of the parties, according to a scheme borrowed from the European Union. It is therefore not the amount and form of the financing of democracy that should be discussed at the outset by Parliament, but the relationship of funding with the very nature of our parliamentary democracy, together with the risks of a policy that no longer fights on ideas, which no longer compares different thoughts, but has adapted to the web, mostly through those social media that presuppose the use of expensive, expensive platforms of vague spin doctor and nourished teams of operators. Such a pounding digital propaganda, often vulgar, full of accusations and retaliation, specialized in personal denigration and fake news, manages to condition vast electoral quotas with a facility that no political program can ever match. Days ago I received a message that struck me and I would like to quote it by finishing my speech, President: After the noise caused by a recent judicial investigation, private funding will no longer exist, because no one will want to finance a political party even in the manner permitted by law. Only covert foreign funding, the Bannon or Savoini model, will remain. The Senate must have the democratic lucidity to say that whoever wrote this message is right and must also have the courage to draw the consequences from it. [[Applause from the PD and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u13	Mr. President, I'm leaving where Senator Zanda ended up. This debate was triggered by a judicial investigation into the instrument of foundations. I do not want to enter into this problem, because as a guarantor I believe that the guarantees apply first and foremost to my political opponents, even before I do. However, I would like to make a few comments on this form of organization, on why foundations were born and developed. To realize it, just look abroad. The phenomenon has depended on a change in party form, which occurred when the party, also because of those technical instruments to which reference has been made, has ceased its traditional functions, i.e. those of producing ideas, spreading them and forming a political class. In this context, these realities were born outside the parties, first in the United States, then in Europe. In some cases, foundations - I am referring to Germany - are even the target of public funding for policy, with these specific, independent and transparent tasks. The problem, then, is that foundations do foundations; that they are what they are in the United States, Germany and other parts of Europe, that is, a santabara of ideas, where solutions are produced - which are then placed in the clash through the channels of politics that are present within the institutions through the parties - and forges of formation of the ruling class. It is clear that foundations cannot be a substitute for the financing of parties, nor should they be the gathering of currents, where party form allows them to exist. For this model of foundation to be possible three simple elements are necessary: transparency, control of the activity and the fact that when you have positions of government you get "sleeping" from the foundations, you distance yourself and maybe you return then to the ranks when you have finished your task of government, exactly as happens in the United States, where entire political classes prepare within the foundations, here they find a contribution of ideas and solutions and then clearly carry out their service in favor of the State. How is this possible? Mr President, I think there is a very simple solution. It would be enough for there to be a register of foundations that responds to these needs. In Italy we judge everything, even humanistic research. The magazines are listed in three categories, A-series, B-series and C-series; if we were to judge today the Cross Criticism would probably end up in C-series, given the parameters of judgment, and can we not think of a high-profile transparency committee that judges foundations? Mr President, I believe that the last of the useful solutions is the one that is being adopted, namely that foundations are the same as parties; when we uniform them, after we have lost the parties, we will also lose the foundations. Until the next geremy on politics that expires and loses its ideals, on the ideas that are plagiarizing and on the political class that decays. Well, that doesn't seem to me frankly the solution. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Pittella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u14	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this debate, which is so important from my point of view at least, excites less than other clashes that we have seen in recent days, without outlets and without meaning, than to humiliate the institutions and Parliament in particular. But I am speaking in this debate because the question of financing the political and democratic activities of citizens has occupied the whole radical history from the start, with the various referendums including the one won in 1993. It has been a subject of radical attention for some time, not only in terms of complaint, but also in terms of proposal, to which I will return. First, however, I want to say very clearly that the trials are done in court; they are not done either on paper, on Facebook or on the other side. And the presumption of innocence must be a cornerstone that is not in alternate stages, for friends or opponents, but that defends all citizens. It's up to others to prove guilt. It's not up to me or us to prove innocence. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and IV-PSI, and Senator Pittella]] But it is clear that at this time of general confusion these firm principles do not seem to exist anymore: we see it, for example, in the prescription and in other worrying aspects of a policy of justice "cuffed"; it is only "cuffed" or of tightening of penalties. I repeat, trials take place in court. It is not new that of the veils, of those who have close relations with the judiciary, of those who leak the news. However, it is a very bad vice in a rule of law and with respect to the defence of the individual rights of citizens. I want to return to the other subject, that of our proposals, which must only be updated, in order to promote participation in the political life of citizens. It was a bill signed by Senator Theodori, I believe, filed and never discussed, immediately after the victory of the referendum in 1993. We had been convinced since then that the political participation of citizens in democratic life was an essential element of the rule of law and of liberal democracies. Instead, we have seen a stratification of laws, leggings and changes - some of which Senator Quagliariello reminded her, others I could remind her - until the last, so weird that, for example, a transparent political party cannot be financed by a non-Italian citizen. It's incomprehensible. The non-Italian citizen can finance candidates for elections, but he cannot finance a political party if he does not have a legal personality in Italy. It's completely incomprehensible. Mr Quagliariello mentioned the example of foundations, but I could make many more. We do not understand why - let us just take the case of a European citizen - he can personally finance candidates who stand in elections, but he cannot finance the political party that stands for them. It's really a twist I've never understood. Returning to us, we have always proposed to finance services for the participation of citizens. I'll give you an example you don't think of. We have the legal institution of the popular initiative bill. Since we are still in the Middle Ages, the signatures must be collected by hand and in the presence of an authenticator, which can be a city councilman. We do not really talk about telematic signatures, as they use in many other countries and how we use them, however, for much more demanding obligations than to sign a bill of popular initiative, but there is no way. You can't get through this. The same applies to referendary signatures: in this case, too, you must collect 500,000 signatures by hand like the Amanuans of the sixteenth century, in the presence of an authenticator because the identity card is not enough. Frankly, this is not the way you help your participation. I leave out the question of why the proposals for popular initiative law lie in Parliament and have no obligation to be examined, rejected or accepted. There is another element that will be the subject of a press conference shortly and it is access to the media. The public service called Rai, for which citizens also pay the fee, is linked by laws and regulations to a balanced and equal transmission of political ideas. This is not the case and this is demonstrated by the data, which is the result of a statement we are about to present and which I will not read because they are complex, but if the Presidency authorizes me I will attach them to my speech. I know the data better, of course, than More Europe. I don't have the tools to get to know others. I know for a fact that taking, for example, even the last two months of September and October, the antenna time per word and news is zero in all public or private channels. This is not a service to participation, it is a choice. It is always said that politics must stay out of the Rai and we do not even end by saying that politics occupies the Rai, depending on the government and the majority in turn. This is a fundamental vulnus. The participation of citizens is limited for their referendum or popular initiative proposals and there is no access to information tools for more than questionable choices. The statement submitted months ago was the subject of a recommendation from the Authority for collateral in communications, but nothing changes. That is the point that we should face with great strength. First of all, I believe that we must make it very clear that politics, good policy, is a value and as such, is a cost. As such, it is not free of charge, as such it fails to be or is in the absence of those services made available to everyone, from youth organizations to movements: I am talking about for example the seats. A long time ago we were thinking of mailers, postal discounts and everything that can facilitate communication between politics and citizens. Today the technologies have changed, the times have changed and communication must definitely be updated, but the fact remains that if we believe that only parties have the task of promoting democratic participation, we are again wrong, because movements, groups and associations must be able to have services to carry out their ideas. I hope that this will be taken into account. To be very clear if we are going to the elections, I do not know very well when, including Emilia-Romagna, those who are not already in Parliament with a group and I do not know very well what other form of training they must take, even if there are already signatures in Parliament and I have not been suspicious for a long time. I don't think it's much of a way to put everyone at the same starting point and say that he wins the best. Here are the best of the best that have their political propaganda tools for free, without even having to put some effort into it. I would like this to remain in the attention of this House. We now sign online, we sign anything, right? For a proposal for a popular initiative, one cannot: amanuansi in the rain and with so much authenticator, it is clear, because my passport is not enough to authenticate me. We need someone else more responsible than I - it seems - to be authenticate me: this is frankly no longer acceptable. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, PD and IV-PSI Groups, and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u16	The Presidency shall authorise you to attach the data as requested by you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u17	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a single judicial inquiry, to which we renew non-formal but substantial respect in this House. We are not even talking, in my opinion, simply about the financing of parties and less than ever we are discussing a media controversy in this House. In my opinion, this debate, for which I thank the Presidency of the Senate and the Leaders, addresses the great issue of liberal democracy today and starts from the principle of the separation of powers between the legislative, the executive and the judiciary. In Facebook times, talking about Montesquieu is not fashionable, but it is a particular duty to do so when some of the world's most authoritative political leaders use the visibility of liberal democracy from the columns of the "Finncial Times" to contest its imminent end. In short, we are not discussing a small bagatellar issue, but we are reflecting on the question whether centuries of legal and political civilizations still make sense or not. Let us discuss here today the separation of powers. All of us are legislative powers, all of us, no one excluded. Those of us who have had the very high honour of leading the executive power pro tempore also have an extra responsibility, which I would like to carry out in this House first of all on the basis of previous parliamentary speeches. This is not the first time that a former President of the Council in a House of Parliament has dealt with this issue; it had happened in 1977, when President Aldo Moro in the House of Deputies used remarkable words against other political forces and those who wanted to try his party in the streets: We will not let ourselves be tried in the squares. Did it go that way? Let's learn from history: did that happen? We constantly repeat Aldo Moro's words; we tell them, but in reality that story - the Lockheed scandal - marked the country's institutional history, not already for the process that was done to some ministers, but for the highest consequence: the resignation of the President of the Republic. In fact, Giovanni Leone was forced to leave the Quirinale ahead of time not because he was involved - paradox of paradoxes - but because of a scandal mounted to art on a part of the media and on a part of politics, which I find necessary to be remembered here. Here, in fact, there are those who had the courage and intellectual honesty, Senator Emma Bonino, twenty years later, to write a letter of apology, together with the late Mr Marco Pannella, precisely to Giovanni Leone on the occasion of his ninety years. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to destroy the reputation of a man, of a representative of the institutions, a cover of a few weeks may suffice (which then, the times change but the weekly stays!); what it takes to rebuild that reputation are years and years. Perhaps - I say this with the respect she knows - not even the letter of Senator Bonino and Mr Pannella managed to fully recover the prestige and honour that President Leone had the duty to be recognized. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and FIBP-UDC.]] Giro (FIBP-UDC). You're right! RENZI (IV-PSI). In 1992, President Bettino Craxi spoke in Montecitorio. I already know that it is enough to pronounce this name - for the known judicial events - to open immediately a debate made particularly topical by the fact that we are in the imminence of the twentieth anniversary of the tragic disappearance of Craxi. However, I do not want to open a debate here on a subject which does not concern the subject of our debate, namely the political figure of Bettino Craxi. I just say that on July 3, 1992, acting for trust in the Government led by Giuliano Amato, Bettino Craxi gave a speech also in this case very quoted and poorly read, as often happens to the speeches of politicians. He, in fact, called into question the whole constitutional arc - including the newly formed parties then, those parties that exhibited the noose, but had already been involved in illicit financing events - and said that a large part of the funding to the parties was - the textual words of Craxi - illegal or irregular. An assumption of responsibility for the whole constitutional system, not just for someone. Well, that speech of Craxi few remember the incipit. Craxi said, "I've learned to be horrified by the political vacuum." We are discussing this, Mr President, not just illegal financing; we are discussing the weakness of politics. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and FIBP-UDC, and Senator Pittella]] in the face of an objective need: to put the system in a position to be effective. I want to be very clear: I do not feel at all comparable to the size of two leaders such as those I have just mentioned. I share with them only the very high honor clothed, but I have no doubt that there is a profound difference between me and them of standing, regardless of the judgment that can be made on individuals. At the same time, there are no people in this House who do not recognise that there is also a profound diversity in the substance of the disputes surrounding recent events. In the Lockheed scandal there was talk of a bribe, real or presumed, millionaire; in 1992 the financing of the whole party system was questioned. It is good to say here that the story from which we have taken inspiration, and which certainly cannot be exhaustive in our discussion, is a totally different crime hypothesis. We are not talking here about hidden or illegal money donations, we are talking about regularly recorded, reclaimed and, as such, traceable, clear and transparent contributions, due to the presence of a budget that is made public. The foundations are not all the same. I address my colleagues who know better than I do: there are foundations that make their budgets public and foundations that do not or at least did not do so before the new legislation comes into force. This foundation we are talking about had the budget totally public and what happened? Something very simple and, if you like, very complicated has happened. These regular contributions to the foundation were suddenly transformed into potential irregular contributions, not because the definition of the grant was discussed, but because the definition of the foundation was changed. In other words, it was decided that the foundation was no longer a foundation, but a party. The point of discussion, for which I believe there is a field invasion, is that the judiciary has decided on its own not what is illegal funding. This is his work; the judiciary must understand, study and verify what is illegal. Instead, he claimed to understand what a party is and what is not. This is the fundamental point that I would like to make clear to Parliament so that everyone makes their own assessments and not because something changes to us. We don't have any problems. But it must be clear that if we entrust to the public ministry not already the ownership of the prosecution, but the ownership of the political action, deciding what has started and what is not, this Assembly, together with that of the Chamber and all the politics, take a step back for fear, for mediocrity [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC and PD),]] and leaves the judicial action responsible for what is political and what is not. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we are discussing. If this is not clear, know that it is not about the specific issue of transparent and regular contributions; no, it is about what can happen to each of you. Each thing can become illegal funding for politics, not just a Srl, as Senator Saccone provocatively said in the introductory speech. Even those perhaps, but it is any act that has to do with politics that becomes potentially sanctionable. I think that is the point we are discussing. After that, Mr President, the judiciary decides what has started and what is not and, consequently, sends about 300 financiers in the morning, at dawn, to the home of uninvestigated citizens, whose criminal record is dull, with instruments typical of a raid rather than a request. To know in fact whether the transfer was made or not there is a much simpler mechanism than the morning search at six and a half in front of the children upset; there is the order of performance. Will you tell me that this kind of intervention is done to protect the suspects? No. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and FIBP-UDC]] Have the courage to say that this type of intervention is aimed at describing as criminal not already the behaviour of individuals, but any kind of private financing that is done through the regular and lawful forms provided by the law on the foundation, the law on parties and everything else. That is the point and it is about it that we are debating. What are the consequences? First of all, if 300 financiers go to the houses of people who have financed politics or, at least, who have funded a foundation, and it comes to the assumption that the process will be to understand whether the Leopolda was a party initiative or rather a party articulation or, as the organizers said, an initiative that is detached from the individual party life, if the criminal process is done on what the Leopolda is, we obviously have a fact: those 300 financiers take mobile phones, some of which have not yet been returned - still not returned - take data and go to the bottom of the line, as they say for those investigations in which they start from a so-called presupposition crime, and then go to see if there is anything else. Those who say that this attitude confronts the political life of people are censored by the knockouts of the MSC. I would simply like to say that, in my personal experience, I have had elements of discussion with the judicial authority, for which I have substantial, not only formal, respect. I had discussions about the vacation of the magistrates: I was criticized for proposing the reduction of the vacation of the magistrates; I had discussions with a large part of the judiciary for the constitutional referendum (not only with a large part of the judiciary), but I respect both the position on the referendum and the position on vacation, because they are two positions that, in my opinion, in a democratic country, are totally free and legitimate. I say, however, to the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, who censor a senator - whatever it may be - for the expression of his political ideas, that I do not understand that Article 68 of the Constitution, which, in the first paragraph, reads as follows: Members of Parliament shall not be required to respond to opinions expressed. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC, PD and L-SP-PSd'Az]] I hope that the CPMP - or rather the components involved - will not forget that this article in the Constitution has not been deleted by anyone. The other consequences are that, in a country in which politics costs, a sweeping search of all the people who in the past have contributed to the political and cultural initiatives of a given foundation brings a clear fact: no one will finance more than a cent of that cultural or political part. Let me add - let me say - that they are also good. In fact, if a decent citizen finances politics (because I demand the abolition of public funding to parties and I think I am now a minority in this House) but, alongside the abolition of public funding, private funding is criminalised, it is clear that that citizen, that entrepreneur, will no longer finance the public thing. When Kamala Harris (a name unknown to most, but one of the most interesting in the American democratic landscape of the last ten years) is forced to retire because she no longer has resources, it is shown that she is only a hypocrite who says that money is not needed to make politics. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC and PD, and Senator Bonino]] We need regular, legitimate, clean, transparent money. But they do. Second point. In this case, there is a crime that no one wants to deal with, Mr President: it is the criminal offence under Article 326 of the Criminal Code, that is, the systematic violation of professional secrecy. It concerns, in particular, personal affairs of the undersigned, for whom I have no difficulty in saying that we use the well-known legal principle "bad not to do, fear not to have". So it's not a personal problem, but if in the same hours of the search, quite casually, the violation of office secrecy leads to publication, not with a journalism of inquiry, but with a journalism on demand, the sensitive data, that only Bank of Italy or the Public Prosecutor or the Guardia di Finanza have, are we aware that the randomities and coincidences exist, but is there a short circuit between the instruments of communication and the instruments of the legal battle? [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC and PD]] Are we aware that the violation of professional secrecy, pursuant to Article 326, cannot be debilitated to a criminal offense? You search those not investigated and you don't search the potential perpetrator of the crime, because you take it for granted, as someone said, that privacy for a politician doesn't exist. This statement is very important. I believe that there are mandatory transparency rules and it is sacrosanct that we present all the data relating to our activity: it is one of the cornerstones of liberal democracy. What is not sacrosanct, because it corresponds to the dictates of the ethical state, is to argue that everything can be totally free of any limit. I am not in the ethical state of those who want to transform principles of political opportunity into a process. You can say that you agree or not, but you cannot turn into a process what is an element of political opportunity because, in the process of intentions, even if you believe that you are acquitted, you are still involved, to use the expressions of the poet. It is not only an ethical state, but it even becomes a ethyl state that of those who say that the children of the politician cannot have the right to privacy, so they take photos inside the houses, inside the bedrooms and everyone is quiet for mediocrity, fear and fear. This is not a rule of law. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC, PD and L-SP-PSd'Az.]] Who says that privacy is only for someone and not for others, have the courage to say that we are barbarism. Mr President, I am not speaking for myself, I am not speaking for us. I think that having respect for the judiciary in this country means first of all recognizing that there are women and men who have lost their lives to be judges and magistrates: to them, to all of them, goes the feeling of greater gratitude than the maximum expression of the popular will, Parliament, must have. We bow down to these stories and to the extraordinarily good work of thousands and thousands of magistrates and judges. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and PD and Senator Perilli.]] But to those who today wanted to imagine that this bow becomes a weakness of the legislative power before the judiciary, one has the strength and courage to say that he will have to challenge us for our ideas, for what we did when we ruled alone, for what we are doing ruling now: challenge us for jobs act and for the battle on taxes. But to those who want to challenge us or, worse still, eliminate us by judicial means, know that on our side we have the courage and the desire to say that law and justice are different from hairy justiceism and the connection with certain instruments of communication and the press. ( [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]] Italy Viva recognizes the deep respect due to the judiciary. Italy Viva believes that the legislative power of this country must be defended first of all by itself. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC and PD, and Senators Casolati and Centinario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u19	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as those who have spoken before me have already done, I too feel the need to thank the Presidency of the Senate and the Heads of Groups for having decided to promote this debate. I believe that, in the face of a question of this importance and complexity, there is first of all the need to make a rigorous analysis and to avoid turning our debate on this subject into a rhetorical buzz, in the mix of different things in the same cauldron, in a gigantic work of mass distraction: we would not render a service to this House and to those who have decided, I repeat, meritoriously, to organize this debate. We therefore need the passion for distinctions and the desire to make them, to make them all. The first distinction that I believe should be made is between fundamental issues and ancillary issues. I think that the fundamental question facing us today is not so much the question of funding for politics, but that of democracy in the political forces: that is, I think that the democratic issues with which political forces organize themselves and participate in public life is a priority over the question of how they get resources to finance their activities, and I would say that not only is it a priority, but it conditions it and makes it possible. I try to explain myself with some examples. I had the honour of signing a draft law of the Democratic Party signed by almost all my Group's colleagues - and I am very pleased to do so - for the implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution. I think there are things that we cannot not discuss in a debate like today: should or should not parties have legal personality? Should parties, for example, or should they not be required to publish their statutes in the Official Journal, to have leaders who are fully responsible, who can go so far as to answer in court for any violations of the things that are written in that Statute? Should the parties or should they not have any guarantee that for this very reason they feel obliged to carry out their work with the utmost care? Should the parties or should they not have procedures for selecting candidates regulated by law? Should the parties or should they not have the full freedom of their members and their elected representatives? Should the parties or should they not have the characteristic of a glass house in the Italian public arena? This is the issue that we should discuss and which unfortunately is all too often not discussed. The transparency of parties, the democracy of parties is as important as democracy itself, and it is a public good, which needs public protection, and even - if that is the case - public support, because there is nothing wrong with the State financing the exercise of democracy in parties. This issue has nothing to do with public funding, as is simplistically said in many bad debates, which we hear in this House and outside of it. The second distinction that I think we need to work is between healthy and unhealthy objectives, because I believe that a political battle made to have the greatest clarity of politics, to have a clean policy that can look people in the eyes so that it is correct in every act of its daily life is highly commendable. However, if the aim is to organize sophistic discussions, misleading discussions in order to keep politics under slap and to keep it under pressure by an anti-parliamentary demagogy often fueled by high-ranking forces, we are faced with an insane objective, which as such must be combated. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, I am for the utmost transparency, I am for the maximum cleanliness of politics, but I believe that the dictatorship of suspicion, preconception, the culture of gratuitous ill-treatment, of the press trial, of the process on the streets, of the illegal leaks of news are pathological phenomena, which have nothing to do with the cleanliness of politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then there is one last distinction that I feel the need to make, and that is between the politically objectionable and the shameless face the law. We cannot accept that everything should be put on the same footing; if there is a final judgment by the State condemning a political force to return malt because it has cheated the State for three consecutive years and that restitution does not take place, we are not faced with a politically inappropriate act, we are not faced with a problem of interpretation, but with a gigantic problem of violation of the rules of the penal code. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bressa]] If indeed - I do not know - always in relation to this scam have been issued inflated invoices, they have made false expenses to clean up money, the proceeds of a crime definitively established by the Italian judiciary, is not faced with a politically inappropriate act, it is faced with a serious criminal issue. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there have been murky negotiations with foreign parties for funding and this has led to an investigation into international corruption, we cannot accept that this should be put on the same footing as politically dubious or inappropriate things. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Marcucci's replicas.]] And if, at last, there are members of parties who have acted in violation...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u21	Colleagues, let us end Senator Parrini, because immediately afterwards there will be a member of your Group who will be able to say whatever he wants, as we have allowed others to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u22	Mr Parrini (PD). Thank you, Mr President, for helping me to complete my reasoning. If indeed foreign - and if that is true I do not know, but I mean if it is established - party-related representatives have acted in violation of international sanctions, we are not in the politically inappropriate, but in the serious criminal violation. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I was surprised then by the nervousness of my colleagues, because I said very careful and factual things. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , as well as their lack of respect for the freedom of those who are speaking, I begin by saying that we must all together have the desire to think about the financing of politics, not so much with the desire to anticipate steps backwards, repentances and abjurors regarding choices made, but with the courage to make them new and innovative, because for a long time they are mature, but they have not yet been carried out, like the full implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution. The party that I honor to represent, from the point of view of democracy of internal processes and respect for that article of the Constitution, can look at everyone without fear of having to blush or that someone can say that there is something perplexing in his life. I don't know if all the other parties are able to do what the Democratic Party can do. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But I do not want to say that we are good and the others are bad: people of common sense and good will do this battle together, because if you are not democratically organized inside... [[Lives, repeated protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Replies from Senators Marcucci and Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u23	Colleagues, Senator Parrini has almost finished: can we maintain a behavior that allows us to end and give you the word? It is really a matter of thirty seconds of education; terms, however, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u24	Of course, Mr President, if I hadn't been interrupted, I would have finished long ago. I believe that, if we are afraid of reflections on the democracy of the parties, we are in bad shape; but I add a fundamental principle for me and for the Group of the Democratic Party: if a political force is unable to guarantee that it has organised its internal life in a fully democratic way, it will never be able to put a credible candidacy for the democratic management of a state ordained according to the principles of liberal and representative democracy. We must discuss this, because this is also about funding policy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. Colleagues permitting, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u26	Mr President, I regret to contradict you, but I will not accept your invitation to respond to Senator Parrini. Mr Marcucci (PD). We were sure of that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Augussori, I did not invite you to reply, but I made it clear that, on behalf of your Group, you would have the opportunity to speak on the subject, as your colleague was doing. I also asked your Group and again asked you for education to allow others to speak in this House, as we are allowing your Group to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As I said, Mr Parrini used the word'se' 28 times - we counted it - I think he comments on his own. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I come to the point on the agenda, the issue of the financing of politics, for many decades at the heart of the Italian public debate. As we know, in 1974, the public contribution to political parties or movements in two specific forms was introduced into our system: the state contribution for the ordinary financing of parties; the contribution for reimbursement for the electoral expenses incurred by parties for European and regional political elections. In 1993 the regulation on the first form of contribution, the one aimed at the ordinary functioning of the parties, was repealed with the intervention of a popular referendum, therefore only the contribution for reimbursement for electoral expenses remained in force, then reformed in 1999. When introduced, in 1974, the public contribution to the parties had a dual ratio. On the one hand, it was intended to allow all political parties, albeit based on their electoral dimension, to survive and function regularly, especially in accordance with Article 49 of the Constitution, which I have heard quoted several times today. Political activity, in fact, then as it is today, provides for particularly high costs, in order to support which need a substantial and constant flow of resources. On the other hand, it was intended to prevent or, in any case, to limit the occurrence of corruptive phenomena within political parties: in the absence of public funding for parties, it was thought, indeed, that the parties were at the mercy of private subjects who, by means of money, often made illegal, could actually orient public decision-makers. In 2012 the public funding system for parties was subject to a new change (by law, this time), which reduced the amount of contributions and modified the public contribution system, with 70% of the appropriations paid as reimbursement for electoral expenses and for the functioning of parties, and the remaining 30% paid according to the ability of the individual party to self-finance itself. Finally, in 2014, public funding for parties was completely abolished and a specific discipline for voluntary and indirect contributions was introduced. In the course of its existence, in the system of public funding to parties have settled illegitimate practices, which have altered its original ratio after all to be shared. In fact, a distorted use of public resources by the parties has arisen, with the habit of using them for purposes completely disconnected from the functioning of the same parties. From here came a strong opposition of public opinion to public funding for political parties, seen more and more as a source of waste and stealing from the political class. Net of value judgments on public funding to parties as structured in the past, there is a fundamental and unequivocal point that the facts of the chronicle on the contrary testify, namely that politics needs resources to function. For this reason we are more than willing to reason and work to find a shared solution that guarantees, on the one hand, the effective sustenance of politics, on the other, the maximum transparency in the supply of resources, perhaps with a rigid system of internal and external controls and with constraints on the traceability of financial flows. In this sense, we are also prepared to evaluate all the proposals that will come with regard to the financing provided by private individuals, precisely to avoid the creation of vicious circles between parties and external parties, whatever form they may have (commercial companies, cooperatives, foreign bodies, simple citizens). It seems to us that the mechanism, introduced in 2012, of voluntary contribution by destination of 2 per thousand Irpef is an excellent starting point for reasoning, for the future, on more advanced solutions. Finally, we would like to reiterate that we are more than willing to politically reason on the establishment of a specific committee of inquiry on public funding to parties, in order to check - where this is necessary - the regularity (in and out) of public contributions made since 1974. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u28	Mr President, in 1993 I was twenty-four years old and, with the passion of a young man who was interested in politics, I strongly supported the radical referendum to repeal public funding for political parties. Last year I found myself for the first time in my life in an election campaign and I realized that I had made a mistake in previous years. I realized that because my idea was to get a lot of people to fund me with a few figures. I was a leader in the Marche with a proportional system and it seemed to me necessary to make the election campaign as if I were a candidate in a single-member college. I soon realized that the entrepreneurs of the Marches, to whom I had asked for money, treated my request as if I asked them for a bribe: no more or less. Unfortunately, there is no culture. We are the country where money is the devil's dung. It was a very embarrassing experience for me and it was, I think, a lot for them too. That there is no culture proves this by the topics we are dealing with today. It's true. It is obvious: there is a disproportion between the hypothesis of crime advanced by the Florence Public Prosecutor and the manner in which this investigation has manifested itself. Breaking into the homes of people who have financed, until proven otherwise legally and according to the rules, a political foundation is an exorbitant thing, as exorbitant were some weekly covers of the past days. I have nothing in common, politically speaking, with Renzi or with Giorgia Meloni, but to show a list of lobbyists, as if the word lobby were in itself horrible, who financed, according to the rules and in clear, a political party, means that there is something that does not work in our system. If funding is not to be public, it must be private, but if private funding is a moral disgrace, we have the problem of supporting policy that cannot be done free of charge. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Politics has costs, democracy has costs, and these costs are in the interest of each of us to bear them. Senator Renzi, everything you said is acceptable, with a way I wouldn't have used, but it's still very acceptable. But I admitted my mistake at the time. I'd like you to admit yours from the recent past. No one in this House is without sin. The climate of anti-politics, of cuts in caste, the vulgarization of the interpretation of political action, degraded exclusively to the question of privileges and armchairs, is the fault of all, even his. I remember when he said "game over" to the decadence of Berlusconi former Severino law; I remember that she justified the reform of the Senate, or rather the abolition - in intentions - of the Senate with a question of armchairs. You said that that reform had the merit of saving the state a billion. He did not explain it in the key - there was - of the best functionality of the institutions, he wanted to explain it according to the narration which is something and clumsy that goes for the greater in this epoch. And so on so many other occasions. This government was born on the cut of parliamentarians by its choice. The cut of parliamentarians is the most vulgar and damaging thing of the honour of politics and of the sense of the institutions. It has taken place in this House and has taken place, with even greater emphasis, in the Chamber. It happened because they claimed to justify a political agreement, which was a political agreement of government or power (but it's all right because we are in a parliamentary democracy) with the anti-cast spirit, with the cutting of armchairs. The evil that you report is partly caused by yourself. If we do not get rid of this rhetoric all of us, if we do not have the courage to give politics back the honour and dignity that many politicians have taken from it, we will never get out of this affair. There is no doubt, therefore, that a reform of the system must be envisaged: to give policy the opportunity to live and therefore to provide itself with resources. Implement Article 49 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and the Senator Fedeli]] It is essential to introduce, as a former constitutional law, that democratic method which the Constitutional Charter says and which has so far been ignored. It is necessary to make a law on lobbying. We are a country that has in its institutional palaces the spaces dedicated to lobbying and that by hypocrisy does not recognize lobbying as a reality. We must get out of hypocrisy, otherwise, dear Senator Renzi, we will never get out of empty rhetorical speeches like these. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and the Senator Fedeli]] FADELI (PD). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry into the financing of parties: well come and finally! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We welcome the fact that we will see how a noble instrument that could serve good policy has been used to deceive the Italians and, by scandal, to dissipate immense public resources of the citizens. A story that began in 1974 and still today, unfortunately, leaves open an unresolved moral issue that we, if this Parliament wants to live up to, must absolutely heal with new rules, if necessary. A new story that began in 1974, when in the wake of the first oil scandal, with companies and government forces committed to exchanging price facilities with illicit funding, the parties invented public funding, saying that at least there would be no excuse to steal anymore. We have seen what happened then, how many other bad stories the chronicles have recorded, starting with the Lockheed scandal, billions distributed for the purchase of planes from American society to Ministers and political forces, from Christian Democracy to the Social Democratic Party, or from the scandal of the Banco Ambrosiano, with easy loans to the parties of the financier Roberto Calvi, not to mention the ENI-Petromin affair. A cross of evil, until the Italians can no longer do so, and at the referendum in 1993 they say enough to the commercimonio and with 93% of the consents they call for the abolition of public funding to the parties. Someone from Mars will one day ask: "Problem solved, then?". No way. A few months pass and to the face of the Italians the financing is reintroduced by the Ciampi Government, simply changing its name, camouflaging it under the pompous voice "election refunds." From that moment on, the poor citizens of parties that exceed 3% are forced to give 1,600 lire each, a bargain for party treasurers. Think, at the 1994 elections, which cost $72 billion, the parties collect $94 million, as well as another $94 million in the 1996 elections, even though they cost less than $40 billion. That's right, the elections become a business with the parties, the award-winning company "partiti SpA," which manages to make us even a rich capital gain on public funding, so rich that a group of gallant-men, including the late Paolo Sylos Labini, through the weekly "L'Espresso" launch a campaign that in 1996 resulted in the reform wanted by Romano Prodi, through the voluntary contribution of the so-called four per thousand scaled by taxes, but attention, also here with makeup, because the citizens did not give themselves the opportunity to choose the party to finance; simply the money ended up in a single fund that then all the parties shared on the basis of the electoral consensus obtained. Other protests, of course, with the Italians demanding a new change, which arrives in 1999 when with Massimo D'Alema President of the Council we return to direct financing to the parties, but with a surprise: the costs double, no more 1,600 liras to the elector, but 4,000, an escapism that between Europeans and administratives brings the tip to 8,000 lire to the elector and an additional facilitation, be careful, that is, to collect is no longer necessary 3 percent, but simply the one percent, to the face of the referendum. Then comes the introduction of the euro, the 2002 farce, where the parties double public funding again and do you know who makes this masterpiece? It is done by all the secretaries and treasurers of all the parties present at the time in Parliament. Then it's time to ask for the checks. The parties were asked to document expenditure through budgets, but the budgets never told the truth, because everyone - outside but also within this Parliament - knew that those budgets were false and what we had to wait for to know the truth? We had to wait for the judicial investigations and the journalistic investigations to find out that the money, that public resources had ended up in scandals and bribes. Do we want to remember the scandal of the Margaret, who saw the protagonist Luigi Lusi, the man of trust of Francesco Rutelli? The Commission of Inquiry will be a good opportunity to clarify this too, remembering also the bribes collected by the revolutionary Padani descended from the valleys and from the Lombard plains to burn to the ground "Roma burglara" and which now also invoke full powers. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But yes, we want to remember 200 million cashed by Montedison from the right arm of Umberto Bossi, the legendary Alessandro Patelli, the "pirla" as they called it? Or the gold bars, the diamonds from Treasurer Belsito? Or the diplomas, the machines, the fake degrees for the faithful of the Carroccio? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or the founder's sons, the rhinoplasty of Bossi's last son himself? A parastatal nose, as a commentator called it, paid naturally with the money of electoral refunds? Yes, let's do this Commission of Inquiry, it will be an opportunity to have answers also to the historical threat of Senator Bossi: "I will denounce" - said Bossi - "who used the money of the League to fix my house." That's what happened. Let's do it, we'll also have some clarification on the Moscow negotiation for the oil batch dealt with by Mr. Savoini. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giro]] , as shown in the tapes of the Moscow hotel by the voice of Savoini himself to finance the election campaign of Senator Salvini. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] And maybe Senator Salvini and his colleagues at the League will be able to give us more explanations about the 40 million euros of electoral refunds cheated by the League and that the magistrates are still chasing. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here's what the history of private and public funding for parties is made of and what the debate wanted - and well done - is fueled by Senator Renzi, today at the center of controversy for his foundation. We await the results of the investigation and hope that Senator Renzi will clarify in the courtrooms what he has just told us. [[Comments by Senator Renzi and Group L-SP-PSd'Az.]] VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Stop! DI NICOLA (M5S). But I want to remember something. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Sudanese senator.]] I want to remind you, for the words that ran a while ago, that the story of scandals must also be told in the right way. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Renzi),]] And I want to remind you, in order to do justice to the people who are no longer there, that it is not true that the President of the Republic Leone was forced to leave the Quirinale because of a scandal set up by the media linking him to the Lockheed scandal. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I want to say to Senator Renzi that Giovanni Leone was forced to resign at the request of his party, not for the Lockheed bribes, but for the investigations carried out by the "Espresso" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which documented that his tax returns did not justify the expenses he had incurred in the meantime. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giro.]] I want today to pay tribute to Senator Leone without apologizing to him, and I do not share the apology left about ten years ago in this House. He resigned and I know it's weird, think! There was also in the first Republic who resigned for a question of tax returns [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] While here we have been inquisited and condemned who have plundered the institutions and you still defend them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are right to say that politics costs. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u30	You have to finish, Senator Di Nicola.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u31	DI NICOLA (M5S). Politics costs money but, be careful, there are also good examples: it can also be done simply by raising citizens' funds and not by spending millions. I come from Abruzzo, where we elected eleven MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] a great success. We have self-taxed, we have arrived in Parliament with 35,000 euros [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You 35,000 euros spend it in a dinner! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the presidency, Senator Di Nicola, and finish. DI NICOLA (M5S). Today there is a Commission working on the control of the budgets of parties and also of foundations, as the so-called corrupt sweep law has demanded. From that Commission comes the cry of pain of those who work there and tells us that they are devoid of resources and resources. [[Comments of Senator Causini]] Let us give the staff to this Commission and make it work and let us also think about the controls so that perhaps the Court of Auditors, equipped as it is, can control the funding of the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, we want a Commission of Inquiry and a completely clean policy because this deserves the Italians who in 1993 - and not yesterday - voted against the public funding of the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u32	I declare the debate on the agenda closed. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. as scheduled. (The sitting was suspended at 11.11 a.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders is still under way. The sitting is therefore suspended pending its conclusion. (The sitting was suspended at 3.32 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u33	Colleagues, I would like to refer to the outcome of the Conference of Leaders which organised the debate in the Assembly on the draft budget law. The general debate will begin in today's sitting, beginning with the reports, until 10 p.m., and will end in tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 9.30 a.m. At Monday 16, beginning at 9.30 a.m., the replies will take place and the amendments and articles of Section II of the draft budget will be put to the vote, in accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure. The first section of the bill will then be examined. The deadline for tabling amendments is 3 p.m. tomorrow, Friday 13 December. As the Government announced its intention to put the question of confidence on the first section of the draft budget law, the Conference of the Leaders held the relevant discussion. For the discussion on trust, two hours were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. At 2 p.m. on Monday, explanations of vote will begin on television. He's gonna follow you, so he's gonna call you. Once trust has been voted, the session will be suspended, if necessary, in order to allow the Government to present the first Note of variation, which will be sent immediately to the 5th Commission. We shall then proceed to the vote on the Note of variation and the final vote on the draft budget law. The Conference of the Leaders also postponed the convening of the Senate Commissions for the renewal of the vacant posts of the respective Presidency Offices to 1 p.m. on Tuesday 17. After the final vote of the draft budget law, the Conference of the Leaders will come back to the meeting to define the timetable for the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1586. The rapporteurs, Senators Accoto and Stefano, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Accoto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today a draft budget law arrives in this House which - let me use this image - opens a new construction site; a construction site that sees us building a greener country infrastructure, with so many opportunities for businesses, more social, more inclusive, closer to families, more oriented towards strengthening essential services such as health care. The first merit of this budget law is that it has opened the yard, despite the objective difficulties of departure. The passing of witness to a new government, it is well to remember, had objectively put at risk the attainment of some results. This maneuver, on the other hand, has managed to give a broad response to the citizens, avoiding the risk of weighing on their pockets. On the contrary, it has managed to revive, with a range of benefits that affect the vast majority of Italians. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u36	Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment. Colleagues, the discussion with the report has begun. I would ask you to discuss outside the Chamber or, in any case, significantly lower the tone of your voice. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Now I'm gonna call everyone back, one by one, don't worry. But before I'm forced to do that, you can spontaneously lower the tone of your voice. Thank you. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u37	I want to say it now. In view of a certain stale and worn-out narration of a contrary sign, we are today debating a draft budget law which reduces the tax burden on the so-called trend framework, i.e. compared to what would have happened if we had not intervened. In particular, it was due to the blocking of safeguard clauses, which would have led to an increase in VAT from EUR 23 billion. In this way we have avoided an average increase to the family close to 600 euros per year. In fact, this is a reduction in the tax levy, since the increase in VAT was already included in the so-called existing legislation. A fundamental and far from obvious result, colleagues. The vulgate wants all governments to be caught up with Damocles' sword of safeguard clauses. Of course, unfortunately, we are still forced to manage a poisoned fruit, which has already been received since 2011 by another government, supported not by the Movimento 5 Stars at the time, but by other political forces present in this House today. But it is also true that not all previous governments have been able to avoid the increase in VAT, increased by 2 percentage points between 2011 and 2013-2014. Among other things, I would like to stress that this draft budget law, in addition to fully blocking the burden of VAT that would have taken place in 2020, also cancels 10 billion increase in the same tax planned for 2021, incisively weakening the safeguard clauses that we will have to manage next year. But the so-called sterilization of the increase in VAT was only the starting point. The law in fact puts in place a first phase of cutting taxes at work; we are talking about the tax wedge, the value of 3 billion euros. In 2021 the second phase will open, with an increase in the dowry to 5 billion, which can be further enhanced. As far as families are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the statistical institutes have been certifying a demographic recession for Italy for years. We went to look precisely at the families, where the first steps are taken, not only for our children, but also for many young moms and dads, who in recent years have looked with growing concern at the future. Well, the budget law allocates, in 2020, an additional 600 million for baby bonuses and kindergartens. In particular, the doubling of the nest bonus to 3,000 euros will allow many Italian families included in a low average income range to approach the free kindergarten for their children. Moreover, for the construction of new kindergartens the budget law has a multi-annual financing of 2.5 billion euros, which from next year will allow to increase the supply of places. In addition, as a further demonstration of the organic action put on the field on a topic so important for the future of the country, I like to remember how, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, in recent months it has finally been decreed the overcoming of the historical costs for the repartition of the funds for the kindergartens, with the elimination of the paradoxical "level of needs equal to zero" assigned to a municipality for the simple fact that it has no kindergartens, but perhaps, at the same time, it has many children who do not know where to go. With this draft budget law, we also abolish the superticket on specialist visits. It is a leap that, in addition to weighing on families, has created a distortion between the various Regions in the use of the instrument. As a rule, the cancellation of the levy will lighten families by half a billion euros a year, without creating any uncovering within public health funding. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, from this point of view I would like to remind you of the confirmation of the additional 2 billions of the National Health Fund in 2020, as it was decided in the previous maneuver. And then the green turn. In the economic maneuver we have foreseen 7 billion euros of additional resources in the next three years, in addition to the 3 billion already foreseen for the green new deal, resources that, in a broader perspective, will grow to reach the considerable and remarkable sum of 59 billion over fifteen years. These appropriations will then have a leverage effect on the activation of private investments. Basically, for the first time this country will have a serious, credible, substantial financial envelope for environmentally sustainable practices and practices. Colleagues, the environment is not a fashion, but a state of necessity. This maneuver finally takes note and activates an entire ecosystem that is not only about protecting the environment in the narrowest sense of the term, but also about clean energy, innovation, incentives for young people, start-ups, stimuli and enthusiasm. In this respect, within the Industry 4.0 package, which we managed to extend to small and medium-sized enterprises in the Commission, for a total annual value of 7 billion, I would like to recall the introduction of a green tax credit, starting from 2020, to encourage environmental projects for decarbonisation and circular economy. All this for an additional appropriation over the three-year period of EUR 420 million. [[Applause from Senator Moronese]] From the point of view of investments, particularly for sustainable development and energy efficiency, this maneuver stabilizes up to 2024 the 500 million euros per year that, at the impetus of the 5 Star Movement, have recently been made available to the municipalities. All in all, for the municipalities from now to 2034 there is provision for 33 billion euros for investments in roads, schools, contrast to the hydrogeological failure and - as mentioned - construction and maintenance of kindergartens. Of course, it is obvious that within the maneuver some resources are recovered from new taxes, but - let us be clear - these new taxes affect exclusively web giants, gamblers, banks and motorway and airport dealers, sectors that I think I can say can afford to bear a tax burden to redistribute resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Laniece]] The other so-called new taxes are only purpose taxes, such as plastic tax and sugar tax. In the course of the examination in the Budget Committee they were re-modulated with an overall lightening also favored by the careful listening of the demands of the enterprises; but I would like to emphasize that the basic philosophy remains entirely unchanged, that is the use of the tax lever in order to favor a change of the productive models in the more eco-friendly and eco-sustainable sense and to help consumption behaviours more attentive to the health, especially from our children. Among other things, I would like to say a word about the fact that these objective taxes are widely used and successfully used in various foreign experiences. The plastic tax has obvious results in several European countries, especially in Northern Europe, while the sugar tax has long been used in the United States, where it is called soda tax. I would also like to point out, in addition to unnecessary fundamentalisms, that these types of taxes, as evidenced by a broad economic literature, in the medium to long term allow the State to save substantial public resources in terms of lower costs for health and for the recovery of the environment. In conclusion, it is a draft budget law that puts a turning point in the country's economic and investment policies without weighing anything on citizens; indeed, even at a difficult time, it manages to guarantee to most Italians a wide range of benefits. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u38	I call the rapporteur, Senator Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u39	Mr President, the key to the measure that we are submitting to the House, around which economic choices are being made, but also political ones for the country, is the desire to avoid a heavy tax, the one that would have been determined by the increase in VAT; therefore, the intervention was to sterilize the safeguard clauses. It was intended to protect Italy from the heavy 23 billion euro ballast that would have permanently curbed GDP and consumption, with all the distortions that such a regressive tax would have brought with it. Moreover, this majority was able to immediately put the country away from another tax, that of quota 300, that is the levels on which the spread was surpassed, aired by sovereign cries, that in an affidavit was able to present an account of at least 11 billion. Well it has done - in my opinion - the Minister Gualtieri to bring with him in audition the graph of the trend of the spread of our country in the last 12 months, showing plastically that there has been a before and there is a after the formation of this Government. There was, in fact, a first cost to Italians, as I said, 11 billion, but there is an after that we can already quantify in a possible saving of about 38 billion in the four years 2019-2022 for interest expenditure. Before passing briefly to the specific contents of this manoeuvre, may I remind myself then of the difficulties of the current international economic framework, which is characterized by a phase of deterioration conditioned by the emergence of multiple risk factors: the trade wars (and the stalled negotiation between the USA and China on duties worry again, after the signs of the past days that allowed for the possibility of an agreement); Brexit; a generic geopolitical instability that affects mainly the Middle East: in this scenario, the Italian economic framework is characterized by a substantially lower economic growth than expected, confirming substantially the estimates contained in the Budget Schedule Document for 2020 sent to the European Commission for the first two quarters of 2019. For the current year, real GDP growth is expected to be 0.1%. Low growth, which can largely be attributed to the marked slowdown in demand for household consumption, but also to gross fixed capital formation, partly offset by good export performance. For next year, however, the estimates predict a slight increase in GDP to 0.6 per cent, largely due to the many measures contained in this manoeuvre. This is a measure that moves according to the objective of reversing the current stagnation of the national economy, through multiple interventions, which have the advantage of allowing us to respect the commitment to contain the public deficit, but also to foreshadow a reversal of the path of debt growth. In this regard, it must be said, and I do so with great intellectual honesty, that the very ingenious criticisms directed, for example, at the scarcity of resources provided to cover certain measures, one on all the measures for the reduction of the tax wedge, serve a certain short-sightedness, perhaps dictated by an academic stiffening, because they do not take into account the contextual presence of other measures that, added and aggregated, can produce benefits, reductions and benefits that, as a whole, can be perceived in a much more substantial way. Entering quickly, but with a duty of detail, on the substance, the objective of reducing the tax burden starts by cutting the tax wedge for workers, amounting to 3 billion in 2020 and 5 billion per year for the following. The relaunch of public and private investments, with particular focus on those related to environmental sustainability, can be pursued through the creation of two funds of about 50 billion euros. Again with the aim of restarting GDP, it is worth mentioning the confirmation and re-introduction of measures such as Enterprise 4.0, which had worked well, the refinancing of the new Sabatini, ACE, the building bonuses, which in recent years have contributed to the positive dynamics of gross domestic product. With regard to the Mezzogiorno, then, I remember, together with the tax credit for the new ZES, also measures such as Rest in the South and Cresci in the South, two measures that, in the light of the studies Svimez (so the weakness of the southern productive fabric is a crucial determinant also in the demographic dynamics), try to interrupt and reverse a negative spiral. Finally, but not least, the measures of the large welfare package, ranging from the extension of the Social Bee and the Women's Option to health, with the abolition of the superticket, a goal finally achieved, and the appropriations for health building and technological modernisation to reach the family, which is characterized by its significant complement of initiatives: from the bonus baby, to that of kindergartens, to the establishment of a fund for universal cheque and services to families, to that for disability. Here too, let me have an inscription. We are not deaf to the criticisms received. We are aware of the limit, for example, of the supply of places in kindergartens which is inadequate, especially in the South, as that relating to the ISEE calculation which can act as a disincentive to work for women. But we intend to set a course on which we are determined and determined to continue to work in the following years for the necessary improvements. I can only say that I am satisfied with a measure that will help the country reverse the trend of GDP reduction to accompany it on a path of renewed growth. I am also convinced that the contribution that this fundamental parliamentary passage has made to the measure in our examination has been useful for profound improvements, and this thanks also to a proactive and open work which has also held oppositions in the debate in the Commission, which I thank for the will shown. In fact, many improvements have been introduced during the long and fruitful work carried out in the Budget Commission. I am referring first of all to measures for business and growth. After sterilizing VAT and confirming the support measures for the most important companies, different measures were introduced. The objective has been to update the discipline of incentives related to Enterprise 4.0, looking more strongly towards the process of digital transition of enterprises, investment in research and development and technological innovation, the technological and digital transition, rationalising and stabilising the facilities, recognising a tax credit in place of the extension of tax incentives in the form of increased deductible investments. In addition, we have introduced additional tax credit provisions for investment in research, technological innovation and other innovative business competitiveness activities for 2020. Eligible activities in this case are research and development (fundamental research, applied research and experimental development in science and technology). Similarly, tax credit measures have been extended to cover the costs of training employees to facilitate the acquisition and consolidation of technological skills. Specifically, the tax credit is recognised as a percentage differentiated according to the size of the enterprises. Remedial measures were then taken to regulate ecobonus and sysmabonus, listening to the critical issues raised by the world of small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to the invoice discount. In fact, the forecast of the possibility for the person who supports the expenses for the renovation of the buildings to request an early contribution from the supplier who carried out the intervention in the form of a discount on the consideration, which was a weight especially for the small ones. This type of discount, however, has made it effective since January 2020 for energy efficiency interventions of common parts of the buildings. The article on the so-called bonus facades was then completely rewritten in the Commission, an important intervention that invests in quality and urban decor, allowing for the benefit only of interventions aimed at the restoration and restoration of the external facade of buildings located in zone A or B, on the opaque structures of the facade. Provisions have been introduced for the financing of conversion and productive redevelopment of crisis areas, through an increase of EUR 100 million in the year 2021 of the Fund's allocation for sustainable growth. We have also allocated 100 million for the attraction of investment and the implementation of business development projects. Furthermore, in order to support access to the labour market and the vocational training of young people, we have introduced contribution reductions of 100% for three years for the recruitment of apprentices by employers with up to nine employees. On the Mezzogiorno, in particular, it was decided that the allocation of resources from the capital expenditure programmes aimed at the growth or support of investments to be allocated on the national territory without criteria or indicators already identified should also be made in accordance with the objective of allocating to interventions in the territories of Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Basilicata, Calabria, Puglia, Sicily and Sardinia a volume of appropriations at least proportional to the resident population. I would also like to mention the many interventions in favour of the agricultural world. Among other measures, it was planned to grant farms a grant of up to 35% of eligible expenditure and subsidised loans of not more than 60% to finance initiatives aimed at the development of innovative production processes and precision agriculture or product traceability. In addition, a fund for organic farming was set up in the MIPAAF forecast and incentives were provided for biogas production which would encourage substantial investment. Again, in the direction of environmental protection, we wanted to identify and improve interventions aimed at promoting our production system towards environmental sustainability and here, in the work we have done in the Commission, we have introduced important changes to the provisions relating to plastic tax and company cars, improving their impact, but without sacrificing investment in conversion. Another central issue of maneuvering is public investment. In addition to the creation of the two public investment funds of central and local authorities and the green new deal fund, new significant interventions were planned during the examination in the Budget Committee. For the improvement of the infrastructural network and of the transports, whose urgency is evident to all, we have introduced modifications to the provisions already previewed in the text relative to the concessionaries, through a remodulation of the so-called Robin tax for the tax periods 2019-2020-2021, but making the effort to characterize the affected audience and therefore looking to the concessionaires highways, harbours and airporti, to the production or distribution of energy. And again, for Venice has been previewed an appropriation of 60 million euros for the year 2020 for the continuation of the participations for the relative safeguard previewed from the special law for the city; for Genoa an extraordinary program of investments adopted from extraordinary commissioner appointed as a result of the collapse of the Morandi bridge for the resumption and the development of the port and the relative infrastructures and again, measures for the execution of participations of scholastic construction through a special new appropriation and introducing simplified procedures for the custody of the plan and the acquisition of opinions, visas and nothing precludes. As far as local authorities are concerned, we have also tried to reverse the course in this area, overturning a signal which in previous years had only looked at cuts. We have come to a gradual recovery of the cuts made to the Municipal Solidarity Fund, the overall allocation of which is increased by 100 million euros in 2020, 200 million euros in 2021, 300 million euros in 2022, 330 million euros in 2023, 560 million euros from 2024. These are important, clear and serious measures. Mr President, I would like to mention two important points concerning social measures. Together with the resources for the First Home Fund already planned, there is the budget of 50 million euros years 2020, 2021 and 2022 allocated to the National Fund for support for access to rented housing. In addition, the Disability Fund was increased by an additional 30 million and non-self-sufficiency by bringing the total allocation of this Fund to 80 million in 2020, 200 million in 2021 and 300 million euro from 2022. I would like to mention one last point, concerning interventions in favour of staff and work, especially for the National Health Service: we expect at least 1,000 extra scholarships for specialist doctors (a clear signal at last); we extend the rankings of the competitions already carried out; we increase the budget of the Fund for the development of firefighters' staff: a budget of 65 million euros in 2020, of 120 million euros in 2021. These are interventions that in the discussion in the Senate have strengthened and qualified a measure that was already born with a clear intent, that of trying to trace a new path. Of course, we could have done more, there is no doubt; we could have done more if we had not had to go along with the weight of a safeguard clause which would have led to the highest increase in taxation in the Italian Republic from one year to the next. We then deliver this work and I warmly thank all the Commissioners and all my fellow Members who took part in the meetings and hearings held in the Commission. I thank President Pesco and my colleague Accoto for the collaboration they have been able to practice in a complex and difficult job. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] , which, however, holds together the quality of a parliamentary commitment that has not locked itself in the enclosure of a majority, but has tried to open up the gaze by collecting also important contributions that - I recognise - minorities have been able to assure. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u40	Minority rapporteurs, Senators Damiani and Rivolta, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u41	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u42	Mr President, let us begin immediately by saying that this draft budget law lacks an economic policy approach, an industrial policy strategy and even what a budget law should have, namely full control of public finances. In fact, this draft budget law does not improve public finances at all, it worsens them, because it uses the deficit for more than 16 billion euros, without introducing measures that have an impact on growth, since in the short term it is modest on the demand side and does not increase GDP in a structural way. I would like to say that with all the billions I have heard from the majority rapporteurs, GDP is expected to grow by at least 10% in the coming years. The premise is confirmed by a law that has been amended several times, in the main measures contained therein, i.e. in the same rules that represented a novella compared to the legislation in force. So the government or - better - the majority has intervened several times on the same budget law. The judgment, in addition to this draft budget law, can be extended, without fear of being denied, to the entire economic maneuver because then we also have the so-called related tax decree-law, which also constitutes a real forge of new taxes. It should be remembered that the maneuver approved by this majority in the Council of Ministers - as I have already said - has been changed many times after several independent bodies intervened publicly, participated and manifested in the streets. Several times, therefore, the majority have returned to their steps and changed the same financial maneuver. We, as opposition, have strongly supported these battles because we still believe it to be a wrong financial maneuver. Increased taxes, including new ones on plastic and sugar in the name of a new, fanciful green agreement, clashes with the same action of the Commission, whose action is lacking even in emanating the most elementary provisions to introduce behaviors aimed at reusing waste that truly lead to a circular economy. The value of the maneuver is just over EUR 30 billion. The use of higher net debt is estimated at around 16.3 billion. The new taxes, even after the - there was - decrease of plastic tax (which remains and we must say that it is a new tax in all respects), bring a revenue of about 10 billion euros. The maneuver will certainly have to be corrected soon because the forecasts are very random. The findings on evasion, the remaining revenue from the plastic tax, the sugar tax and the new fringe benefits on company cars were considered to be too optimistic. State spending stands at around 900 billion. Investment expenditure stands at just over 42 billion; current expenditure is then eaten around 95% of the total state budget. Once again, resources are devoted to current expenditures, trying to support economic growth mainly through consumption. Also stakeouts for renewals of public contracts contribute to increasing current expenditure, in complete absence of a review of public administration needs, which would be necessary in a world now almost completely digital. Great absence of this financial maneuver is the spending review, which has always been a battlehorse of a party of this majority, the Movimento 5 Stars. Instead, there should be a great plan to simplify the rules to invest, build and move the country. Measures to reduce and rationalise public expenditure are only implemented in this 75 million manoeuvre in 2020; almost nothing comes from the reduction of Ministry spending, while only a few million of the previous budget law measures were reverberated by 2020. On the expenditure side two main measures of the Government are confirmed: 100 share and citizenship income. I would particularly like to mention citizenship income and its achievements now known to all of us. For the income of citizenship are placed in the table of the Ministry of Labour 7,166 billion for 2020. Only 34% of the current recipients already received inclusion income (REI), which is intended to combat marginalization. It was, therefore, really aimed at the weakest and poorest groups. Building on these figures, we could only continue to fight the poverty situation with EUR 2.2 billion. Today we could save EUR 5 billion from citizenship income, which could be allocated to measures for growth and job creation and development. In 2019 about one million beneficiaries of citizenship income found work and gave up the allowance. Of these people only 18,000, therefore a small percentage, were placed directly by the employment centers, while in 2018, before the entry into force of the citizenship income, the employment centers were able to place 35,000 people. So, we have an inversely proportional result. The safeguard clauses are another important aspect that must be considered because everyone talks about them, especially the Government and the majority. The so-called sterilization of VAT clauses is a pretext, because it was the pretext precisely to constitute and form this Government today between PD, 5 Star Movement, Italy Viva and Liberi and Equal. "Let's make the government, otherwise in January the VAT for Italians increases": this sentence has been said in the past and repeated today. To deny this thesis we need to make a very simple chronological reconstruction: 23 billion euros of pending clauses now, at the end of 2019, if not disabled, would have taken place on 1 January 2020. These are the safeguard clauses today, but we must observe carefully how they have been left in inheritance by the Gentiloni Government. Silver for about 12.5 billion euros: a heavy tax that has left us inherited from the Democratic Party. That is why today the Democratic Party returns to the Government to put the safeguard clauses and try to make disappear the situations it inherits from the past. [[Applause from Senator Casolati]] The Silveri Gentiloni Government leaves us 12 billion safeguard clauses, which then rise to 19 billion plus VAT and more excise duties. Then the PD takes charge of its 19 billion clauses, without trying to download them to others. Moreover, the'mini', or what it will be, the amendment that will come with regard to the safeguard clauses, in this financial manoeuvre we find an increase in excise duties. We must therefore add to the safeguard clauses the increase in excise duties that we find in this budgetary manoeuvre: 868 million in 2021, 732 million in 2022, 1.5 billion in 2023. These increases will have to be deactivated, along with the remaining clauses. Therefore, the clauses for 2021 amount to EUR 19 billion. So next year's manoeuvre will also have to start with a decommissioning of just under EUR 20 billion, which will be 26 billion in 2022. This is the framework of the safeguard clauses that we carry behind us from the center-left governments of past years. It is certainly the Mezzogiorno of Italy, because the measures are totally unsatisfactory, despite the fact that two thirds of the income from citizenship is being paid to beneficiaries living in the regions of the South and - in our opinion - damaging the social fabric. ISTAT data tells us that money is coming, but it doesn't increase consumption. Even the scholars who deal with Mezzogiorno have found this critical. So this is a completely bankrupt measure. Among the measures for the Mezzogiorno is only refinanced the plan of incentives for employment growth in the South, but in the absence of a strategic plan in the field of work, involving the traditional important sectors of the economy of the South, from tourism to agriculture. The dogma cannot be 34% of public expenditure; the focus is that this public expenditure must be aimed at increasing sustainable economic growth and jobs for the Mezzogiorno. The South needs a further push, compared to the partial measures approved in this maneuver, to make it make that qualitative leap. Let us move on to another important chapter of this move: investment. Not only does the maneuver not increase investment expenditure as a percentage, but it reduces it by more than one billion, as the Development and Cohesion Fund is also being definanced. Once again, investments for development, especially infrastructure investments, are sacrificed. Let's return to the issue of infrastructure: much more serious and much more concrete spaces were found in the budget to introduce immediate and targeted measures to accelerate the mechanisms of spending and restart the administrative machine, whose bureaucracy, strong of dull rules, slows the infrastructure of the country. The few public investments planned in maneuver will start from 2022, i.e. they will not be managed by this Executive over a time horizon that will reach 2034 and are not sufficient to support and strengthen the construction sector, which at this particular moment marks a "less" sign of 400,000 jobs in the last decade. Therefore, it is necessary above all to simplify, where bureaucracy is now holding back everything. Similarly, the allocations of the resources allocated by the Central Government Fund, established by the budget law of last year, which has not yet been approved by the President of the Council of Ministers to make them operational, should also be accelerated. It should be borne in mind that capital investment has a high multiplier, if used in a short time and combined with private sector resources; infrastructure investments would have the highest multipliers. Keeping money and works still, moreover, slows down the sector and the huge induced that revolves around you. The same reasoning applies to the timing of the use of resources allocated for the safety of public roads and buildings, urban regeneration and maintenance of road infrastructure. In particular, measures for urban regeneration could give an important boost to growth where they are part of a single framework allowing coordination of funds and programmes to improve our cities, which could nevertheless be consistent with sustainable development objectives. The new Imu, on the contrary, leaves wide doubts about the practical implementation of a rule that represents a real asset levy on the owners, as it has become the same TARI, that today is no longer a service tax, but it has become a tax linked to the property and, therefore, it has also turned into a capital tax. The real estate sector is, in fact, also immobile because of the uncertainty that such rules generate in investors, who are often the simple savers, who still avoid the investment in the brick. The result is that today on the current accounts of the Italians we have a firm liquidity of more than 1,400 billion euros. If the tax burden on real estate were reduced and there was greater legal certainty, the families would certainly come back to invest in the house for their children. In order to move savings, further tax relief should also be provided for those invested for medium to long periods in real economy, including through the appropriate funds. Let me turn now to the issue of environmental taxes, which I would not call objective taxes, because they are real tax levies in the hands and pockets of citizens. The environment was a glowing opportunity to put new taxes. Environmental taxes, starting from the so-called plastic tax (which remains, albeit reduced, a tax) show a contrary attitude to what we should have today: to encourage investments in environmental sustainability aimed at promoting the transition towards the circular economy. Moreover, the plastic sector is, among the industrial sectors, one that has long been investing in research with a perspective vision of circular economy. I would like to conclude by making a list of the fees in the measure (I have arrived at the tax chapter, then in reply I will continue with other topics and chapters). I prefer to list them systematically, very clearly and transparently, so that it becomes difficult to say otherwise. The new taxes in the budget maneuver are as follows: on plastic production 312 million; on the revaluation of securities and real estate holdings 860 million; 296 million from the increase in levies on winnings at the game; 233 million from the tax on sugared drinks; from tobacco and tobacco accessories about 119 million; from the tax on digital services 108 million; from the excise duty on energy products used to produce energy 106 million; from excise duties on diesel 80 million; from the food stamps of business canteens 51 million. The plastic tax that comes into force since July passes from the initial one euro to the kilo to the 50 and 45 cents and will also weigh on the tetra pak. These are the new taxes that citizens will pay with this new financial maneuver. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u43	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u44	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, let's get this straight. I am, of course, flexible and willing to give space to the timing and manifestations of assent. Spectacularisation in this House is not allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u45	Mr President, our Group is a very compact group and shows this also in these cases.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u46	I said it nicely for the time being.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u47	[[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RIVOLTA, minority rapporteur. We come to the draft budget law and the reason why this new majority was formed. The reason was not to make the budget maneuver, but to defeat and remove Salvini. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This goal was also shared by Europe, which immediately supported this new Government as if it were the solution to all Italy's problems. Indeed, this Government, which sees very different forces between them, has seen very great difficulties in the construction of the budget law. Proof is the timing of this. We have been working on the budget law for a month, and only this morning, almost at noon, has the budget Commission been able to finish its work and vote on the rapporteur's mandate. This is because there was a great discussion within the majority, where there were many differences about the choices to make. To prove this, it was sufficient to look at the number of amendments that the majority itself submitted to the budget law; it presented more of them than the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. It is at least a bizarre thing that, in particular, the PD has tabled more than 900 amendments. With such a departure, we have seen a lengthening of time, increasingly dramatic iron arms, which have led to something completely abnormal: that this draft budget law which has been discussed in depth in the Commission, until noon, and which will be discussed in this House, will not be able to have an in-depth debate in the House because there is no time. Therefore in the House the examination of the provision will be all contracted and there will be exclusively the vote on the package already closed. I would say that this is a vulnus for democracy, for Parliament's rules and it is something I consider to be serious. The attitude of the entire opposition, in particular of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, was for this reason incredibly responsible and institutional because it is evident to all that the priority was not to go into temporary exercise, so it was necessary not to waste any more time with obstructive maneuvers, but to try to make all possible improvements and address all the issues, in our opinion, important, to give a real impulse to the growth of the country without risking to lengthen the times in a dangerous way. To resort to the provisional exercise would have meant an increase in important VAT. This already seems to me to be a very serious position. I have to say that precisely because of the opposition's attitude, even the majority in great difficulty because of what I said earlier, had a good game of working together. There have been very productive discussions; we would have wanted a very different maneuver, in line with what was the budget law last year, with a strong impulse to growth, to the positive expectations of people, of people of all ages; things we have done with a 100 quota and with all measures in favour of the family. We believe that it is right and proper to work to rebuild a society that is more cohesive, more responsible, ready to fight and prevent fragility. A cohesive family does just that: it captures, cures, prevents the fragility that still leads to disintegration. The majority of our colleagues have, from their point of view, presented all the manoeuvres with which they felt they were giving impetus to our economy. The League immediately spoke of another maneuver: with our 905 amendments, we tried, constructively and with the usual common sense, to make our contribution. First of all, we said no to the increase in taxes. The plastic tax, in our opinion, is something absurd. As always there must be a transition phase; everyone agrees on the green new deal, we would miss it, but there is a productive world, also of plastic and other categories touched, that needs time for conversion. Let's think about the world of distribution; let's think about all the uses of plastic in everyday life. It can be reduced, the consumer can do so, but let us think about the uses in medicine, transport, safety and hygiene: it is a transition that needs a much longer time. The companies are working on it, but the time it takes is much longer. And the companies have come to tell us in the many hearings that we have done: a lot of people have spoken about this draft budget law with a lot of concern, just reaffirming that it is not the right way. The documents filed at the hearings shall be accessible to anyone. We, therefore, immediately opposed the plastic tax and, even, the tax on cigarette maps (which would be introduced for figures, among other things, actually quite low). As for the sugar tax, there is already only one sugar factory in Italy; but the problem is sweet drinks? Perhaps the problem is the education that families give their children and the excessive consumption: this is education, it has nothing to do with the tax. You can drink a drink quietly, but of course, if you only bake with sweet drinks you will ingest too many calories. Of course it is harmful, but why hit companies, which, by the way, represent an important sector of our economy? We have also proposed the abolition of local tax (COSAP plus TOSAP) and the various taxes on advertising. Let us not forget that, especially for this reason, so many of our traders are in great difficulty. The advertising tax is seen with great annoyance; not that there is a tax that is seen with favor, but this, when there is great difficulty, especially for neighborhood shops or for smaller activities in the cities, is a real problem. We have re-proposed the restoration of the mini-Ires and the abolition of ACE; the restoration of the 100% deductible for business cars used by employees; the repeal of the new stamp tax on certificates issued by the judicial authority in criminal matters; the maintenance of the exemptions for food vouchers. These are many small jumps or even more substantial taxes. In our ideal maneuver there was the repeal of the increase in excise duty on commercial diesel, the balance and withdrawal for companies, the merger Imu-Tasi with the simultaneous repeal of the Tasi, the abolition of the superb car, because however that is a category that spends and that buys so much. We also need to understand the people who can raise domestic demand. Then there would be the repeal of oppressive measures against businesses and self-employed workers, the criminal shield for the former Ilva, whose amendment was unfortunately declared inadmissible, the mini flat tax, with the reinstatement of the flat-rate scheme and the abolition of the new regime, the closure of disputes pending under the regime, the reopening of the time limits for the scrapping of tax debts and, above all, the dry coupon for commercial rents. All this has been asked of us by so many realities, but the majority on these points absolutely did not want to listen and did not want to change its position. I still add the restoration of Imu deductibility on the sheds. With regard to the family, which we incredibly care about, I note the extension of the personal and contributory requirements for Women's Option, the single child allowance, universal benefit regardless of the employment status of parents and income, unifying the measures currently in force. Our country needs children and needs families who believe they can have a better future and believe they can put up a family with children. We have proposed an increase in the fund for family counselors and the reduction of VAT for children's products; we have proposed the land, life and family fund again. We have also thought of grandparents, because we think of them as those who are able to keep traditions together, to represent the continuity of the family, taking care of the little ones in favour of the children who work. With our amending activity we have also thought about the fund and bonuses for international adoptions, the increase of bonuses for kindergarten, video surveillance. The provision on video surveillance passed to the House and we tried in every way to carry it forward, even in other measures, but there was no listening by the majority, convinced that they had to make a different law. I repeat this every time I can: that of video surveillance is a priority, it is an emergency, because every day the chronicles tell us about minors, even very young children or old people beaten, tortured and strangled, something that you cannot see. They are fragile people and you can't see such abuse. I could still speak for a long time, but then we will intervene later. We believe that this draft budget law has sterilized the VAT safeguard clauses, but it is something that all previous governments have also done; it is a condemnation that we have had for many years and that it was certainly not born in the last parliamentary term. On the part of this Giallorossi government it was thought to proceed with this image of new deals and growth, massacred with taxes. Since there has been a discussion within the majority to reduce the plastic tax, it has been thought well to return to the usual hateful taxes on excise duties on fuels, diesel and petrol, which will be triggered from next year and will strike everyone in a uniform and linear way, rich and poor, workers and desperate. It's a way to cash in quickly, and that says a lot about the rush and all the problems that have been going on. Nevertheless, on certain problems there has really been a point of convergence and we are happy about this because, when at least on some points you can converge, politics is good and shows that you have understood some problems of the people. Instead, I think that on many other issues there has been an ideological vision, so problems of closeness, of help, of recovery towards some people and categories of our country have been discarded. We will continue with our critical action, which will always be constructive, as we have shown these days with our amendments and our behaviour. We are now waiting for what the Government is preparing and are ready to continue our action of improvement always and only to give much more chance to this country and above all to its citizens and the weakest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Damiani and Garavini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u48	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Siri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u49	Mr President, this week I was struck by two episodes that have been reported in the chronicles. The first concerns a lady who saw a check by the Revenue Agency asking her to explain that she had deducted the wig she had bought during a very important and serious illness that had affected her. This is not the first time that such a thing has happened; already a few weeks ago an elderly lady dying in a nursing home had seen the inspectors of the Revenue Agency arrive with reports to be signed and explanations to be given. Of course, I believe that such a fact, regardless of its political colors, must indignant everyone: when public administration addresses citizens with such pervicacy and - if I may say so - emotional violence, we cannot ignore it. Then there is another case that does not concern the fiscal events that have been reported by the chronicles of the Padua: in these days - today or yesterday - a gentleman, who went to a territorial agency to pay a bill, tried to have his debt paid, but unfortunately failed to get any kind of help from the operator of the counter. For pity's sake, the operator of the door makes his own and, therefore, simply replied that he could not help him; That gentleman explained that he had four young children and, with the cutting of utilities, he would find himself in great difficulty. We are a great and important country, and not only because we have big industries - we still manage to maintain a certain level of economy and civilization in the world - but also because we have extremely generous people: a gentleman in line at the door, having listened to what that father reported, paid the debt of his Italian fellow citizen. Of course, one might wonder why that gentleman did not have the income of citizenship: in the country some people are not at a level of poverty such that they can access it and I assure you that there are so many; all those who ask for assistance - they are not really at the level of absolute poverty - but a job, which of course can only come if there is a prospect of genuine growth. Today we are discussing the state budget, which is true that it is made up of numbers, but above all it has a goal that I believe we all share, namely the social cohesion, the foundation and the very meaning of the state. It is true that we observe the whole international system within which we are, and therefore Europe, the directives, the rules and the Stability and Growth Pact. In some cases, however, one should wonder how something can be stable and grow, because it is either stable or growing. As you can see, here we are deprived of the State's own instruments so that we can act in the direction of that social cohesion. We are victims of schizophrenia and bipolarity: it is as if those who sit on the benches of the government - once there were us, now there are you, but no matter who there is - were to have only the steering wheel of a car, but the brake, the accelerator and the marches were in the hands of someone else; it is clear that we can hardly go a long way and have great prospects. There is a limit: I have looked at various elements and I have wondered what the Government does, within the limits of the instruments at its disposal, to meet the great objective of social cohesion. It increases taxes: you can say and decline as you want - sugar tax, plastic tax, corporate cars - but it is always a tax burden, in a situation of great economic difficulty and stagnation. It's like we have a sick guy in bed that we put a tourniquet on to extract his blood, maybe not from his arm, but from his leg, with the excuse that he took it off the peripheral side. But always blood is and, if the person is sick, still does not do good to her. It doesn't even reduce taxes, then, because we go in the opposite direction of what we started to do with flat tax to 15% for VAT consignments; Therefore, we delete the measure that extended this facility, which is of great help: I assure you and you know it, because, even if you are in the government and you are in the majority, you have so many friends who will have told you to be flattened and this is helping them very much. Then why deny this virtuous path towards such workers? It is inexplicable: a country in recession should go in the direction of helping all those workers - because they are also such - who need to breathe a sigh of relief and oxygen; instead, we cancel that provision. And then what do we do? Do you go in the direction of helping the little ones? No, because you cancel the dry coupon for commercial properties. This is also another measure that does not help the sick person who is in bed and who finds it difficult to recover; But it's another blow to prevent him from having a positive reaction. Then what do we do? There's more fulfillment. In increasing compliance, it is true that, with regard to Industry 4.0, hyper- and super-immortizations have been eliminated. You understand, however, that when you say that you have eliminated them, but you have turned them into tax credits, it is not the same thing. Immortality and tax credit are not the same thing, especially because - as you know - there has been a narrowness of tax credits. Above 5,000 euros I can no longer use tax credits during the year, but I have to wait for December. So, I have a financial burden on businesses. Even the increase in the pervicacy of the fiscal police will certainly not benefit the state's coffers in terms of recovery of evasion, because we have seen that, the stronger the violent attitude of the state that tries to persecute the taxpayer citizen, the less results you have. Today Il Sole 24 Ore says - for example - that a campaign of terrorism has begun against flat tax and VAT consignments, because they will undergo a myriad of checks and inspections those who have joined this system. I think this doesn't help, it doesn't help. Then there is the issue of the criminal aspect and the preventive confisks. If I have an audit by the Finance Guard, I'm subject to preemptive confiscation even before someone has determined if I'm wrong or right. Is that a normal fact? No, it's not normal. You should know - and I say this to this House - that the parties involved in the investigations of the Finance Guard and/or the prosecutors are seeing the bank accounts closed unilaterally. Basically, the banks call the subject, tell him that they close the account, give him a cashier's check with his savings on top of it, then enter into the banking system a note by virtue of which no bank will open a bank account. The subject will therefore go around with a circular check with which he must buy bread, coffee or shop. This happens because we have provided for a rule that the subject cannot handle your money: banknotes, that is, are illegal. Therefore, the bank closes your account, you find yourself without money and you are a financial apolis. On the other hand, we should be able to establish that banks are not only a private entity that can have a current account relationship with the taxpayer and the citizen, but also have a constitutionally guaranteed public function. On this, I would like us all, the Senate and Parliament to see what is going on in the country. There are endless aberrations that escape us and on which we must pay attention. If we do not pay attention to individual situations, the simplest ones, those that take place in the real country, we risk recreating a wound again; we risk creating a distance again between the institutions, politics and the country that works. In conclusion, this is a disappointing manoeuvre, but it does not disappoint me, my party or the opposition, but it disappoints the country. It is a manoeuvre that disappoints the healthy country, the honest and laborious country, that does not want to give up, that wants to make it, that asks Parliament to make laws to defend its sacrifices, its commitment and its desire for the future. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u50	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about budgetary manoeuvre, and we are doing so in this context of general discussion. We cannot, however, forget that, while today we are thinking about a 30 billion maneuver - a maneuver that - as I will say quickly, not only is it ineffective, but it is also absolutely inefficient for the funds behind it - yesterday we discussed, almost superficially, beyond the most dialectical disputes that have been there, of a fund saves states that I have renamed the bank-saving fund, which could predict, from evening to morning, that our country is called to pay not 30 billion - the object of this financial maneuver - but 120 billion, and therefore four times the financial maneuver; and this not to be used, among other things, by our country, but - I repeat - to save the German banks. We must not forget, and I repeat... AIROLA (M5S). Let's start over! DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I say what I want. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u52	Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u53	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). You'd better take the 5 Star Movimento program and check your party's coherence! Check your party's coherence! [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u54	Senator De Bertoldi, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u55	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Check your party's coherence instead of criticizing others! AIROLA (M5S). You have to be careful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, let Senator De Bertoldi intervene. AIROLA (M5S). Are we talking about the financial or the ESM? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator De Bertoldi speak. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). In general discussion, I'm talking about what I want. So please shut up and respect your parliamentary colleagues. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] If you don't want to stick to your election program, that program that brought you...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u56	Senator De Bertoldi, either address the presidency and talk about the draft budget law, or go outside and talk to Senator Airola in "Transatlantic."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u57	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I am addressing you, Mr President, but I do not want to be interrupted by a colleague, because it hurts to touch certain aspects; it hurts to remind those who have suddenly changed their minds to remain in the majority. Having said that, let us come to the maneuvering of our examination that I expected would give some sign of growth, and of financial rebalancing and instead contains none of this. The majority claim to have done a miracle, because it has succeeded in sterilizing the safeguard clauses; it has, in fact, succeeded in overcoming the increase in VAT. But he did it for half of the deficit maneuver and, therefore, we continue to go into deficit. I am sorry that those who say they are Europeans go into deficits ignoring the demand of those who think well that they understand very well that we cannot continue to go into deficits. And instead - I repeat - the maneuver in our examination is half in deficit and, for the other half, it is based on really impossible, if not impossible, revenue. Do we really believe that tax evasion is defeated and more than three billion are recovered by the lottery of receipts or the fight against cash? Does anyone who understands finance and economics think that with these tools, that is, handcuffs to evaders that are strengthened, they fight tax evasion? Someone, in fact, in the last few hours, has said that in reality the majority has reduced the initial intentions relating to the punishments for the evaders and, therefore, first they rise to the unlikely and then reduce, keeping them still above the previous status, trying to make a beautiful figure. Instead, it would be enough to better look at the rules and understand that the handcuffs to the evaders have worsened the state of tax criminal law in a country - I remember - where most of the evasion is interpretative. Our tax system - those who understand tax, those who do my work know very well - is largely based on an interpretative evasion and therefore talking about handcuffs to the evader and criminal law, where often it is mere questions of regulatory interpretation that create, precisely, evasion, is really shameful. If these instruments are designed to recover funds, it will take little to understand that the goals will certainly not be achieved. The deficit, on the other hand, will be achieved. But what are the problems of our country, the problems that we all, individually, say we know and then very rarely, instead, we try to face? Productivity problems, public debt problems. Why - I say this on behalf of my party and I take it as a commitment also for tomorrow, if we are called to give a different response to this country - do we not begin to reason also slowly towards a balanced budget? Why don't we start thinking about a policy that revises the system of current costs and expenses, so that that 2.1 becomes 1.8, 1.6 or 1.4 as soon as possible, so that this country finally proves to be a good family father? None of this. Let's go into deficit. The last financial law with the Count Government "first jacket" went there and the Count's Government "second jacket" is going there now. So there is nothing for the good of the country, nothing for businesses, nothing for productivity. We at the Brothers of Italy have for over a year proposed measures to encourage favourable taxation for those who produce more. Basically we said that if a person, an employee, a craftsman, a self-employed person, a professional works more for his country, for his own company, then we expect an advantageous tax on that more, because - on the one hand - his desire to produce more, and therefore productivity, and - on the other hand - he guarantees a greater income from the State, a lesser interest in escaping. Escape, in fact, is encouraged when taxation grows, while the lower the tax, the more evasion is something that is not seen as rewarding anyway. All these measures that would serve the country are deliberately ignored in the light of populism and demagogy, because they like to go to the squares and say to put the evaders in jail. Instead, I say to make sure that the evaders are not there; that this country can grow and, in its entirety, produce more; that it can really believe and attract capital from abroad, because it becomes convenient to invest in our Italy. None of this, however, happens. I conclude by saying that even on the subject of bureaucracy and simplification of rules, which are other barriers to entry into our country, you have done nothing, because legislation becomes increasingly complicated for every financial institution. What simplification have you made with the current financial maneuver? None. I am also referring to the tax law behind this financial maneuver and the tax connection, which I say has made things even more complicated. To believe that a country can only be raised by demagogy or deficit is a pure utopia. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] AIROLA (M5S). It's a matter of wanting to work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, even if she changes places, I always see her. Sit in your quiet place. It's the third time from a different third place. Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u58	Mr President, Undersecretary Malpezzi, I would like to begin my speech with a story about Giovanni Ferro, mayor of Mirabella Imbaccari, a small town in Sicily, in the province of Catania, of not even 5,000 inhabitants, more than half of whom live abroad; one of the many realities of our South, but also of mountain areas of the North, even more and more of the North (in Lombardy, for example, or in Veneto). This mayor called me in the middle of the budget law, saying, I recommend, in a compact way we try to abolish the Imu for all Italians abroad. Why? He knows well that many of his fellow citizens - I repeat, more than half of his approximately 5,000 inhabitants - are a resource for the country: they are compatriots who come back, often during the holidays but not only; they are compatriots who, where we went to predict in their favor the exemption of the Imu, would have a greater incentive to keep their homes in Italy and probably also to restructure them, to keep them in a better state, imagining also to transfer them to their children. In short, this mayor knows well that an exemption of this type would be to counter that depopulation that its territorial reality unfortunately already knows for several years, and that more and more interests many of our small towns. Not only that: this would allow him to keep his territory alive, precisely because those compatriots bring wealth and investment and are linked by affection, to their lands of origin, and maybe also hypothesize a possible return. I say this in particular because providing for an exemption of this kind, and its extension to all, would mean investing in the future, because often and willingly it concerns not only fellow countrymen of a certain age, but more and more also the young people, the famous brains on the run - and there are many, on average, between 180,000 and 200,000 a year - many young talents who go abroad even if possessors of a property. To exclude them from the exemption of the Imu is a damage not only to our fellow citizens, but also to many of our territories. Today, unfortunately, we do exactly this: not only do we exclude them from exemption, but we even cancel an exemption that we had provided for at least a slice of retired fellow countrymen abroad, which we had introduced since 2015 with the then Renzi Government. This is a new feature of the budget bill under consideration. There's no point in hiding it. Nevertheless, we believe that this draft budget law represents a breakthrough, an important step forward. I would like to address Mr Rivolta, with all the esteem and appreciation I have for his work, his stature and the commitment he has always made to the budget law. We didn't fight, we didn't commit ourselves to the creation of this government to send Salvini home. No: our objective, which we have always stressed, is to avoid having to increase VAT; if - as your party wanted - we had gone to early elections, we would not have been able to prevent the increase in VAT. We are therefore very happy and pleased that we were able first of all to avert what would have been a serious damage, not so theoretical, for the lives of the citizens, for the lives of those men and women who in their daily effort carry out the country. And we are talking not about shortcuts, but about the beauty of 23 billion euros which, compared to the pockets of citizens, would have meant 500 euros less per year as a family. Already this saving represents a breath of oxygen for individuals and also for all those small and medium-sized enterprises that, otherwise, would have had serious difficulties. This is a good result for which - as I have already said - Italy Viva has been committed from the beginning, and we are glad that, on the way, many other colleagues have joined our battles. The same applies to other important results that we have achieved. In this budget law there are no taxes on mobile phones, as had been initially foreseen; no taxes on diesel in agriculture and no taxes on company cars. On the other hand, for example, additional resources have been provided for the system of work-alternative training, which in recent years has shown how valuable and important it is for the training of many of our young people. We have allocated additional funds for the Fire Departments and for the arrears of the Forces of Order; we have managed to predict a myriad of further interventions. I think, in particular, of the family package and I thank Minister Bonetti for being particularly combative in order to achieve a whole series of resources, starting with the one for the baby bonus; and I quote the abolition of the tuition for free kindergartens below a certain income; the introduction, although in a couple of years, of a monthly universal allowance for new born children; the resources to build nursery schools. In short, this is a very important and important package of which - I believe - all of us, forces of majority and even opposition, can be proud. I am also thinking of the resources allocated to the disability and non-self-sufficiency fund, which will be able to count for the next three years on important resources, from EUR 50, to EUR 200 and EUR 300 million. We can be proud of the fact that, despite the various difficulties, the scarce resources and the fact that the budget law was basically blocked for three quarters of the resources from freezing the increase in VAT, we have also succeeded in intervening on the National Health Service by providing - for example - additional recruitment of doctors compared to the great shortage of medical personnel that our hospital structures are increasingly encountering. The same applies to the abolition of supertickets. I am particularly pleased that thousands of jobs are being saved, which would otherwise have been compromised by the adoption of a sugar tax and a plastic tax. Through the reduction of the second and through a postponement of both taxes a whole series of women and men will be able to have greater tranquility in the context of their work. It is also important to forecast a National Research Agency that identifies and strings resources both public and private for innovative research areas, representing an important direction cabin. There are also smaller measures with modest figures which, however, represent an important contribution to the promotion of the country system in the world. I am thinking, for example, of the restoration of the cultural fund, which is intended to provide additional resources for language and culture courses for our fellow citizens, but not only. Mr President, in addition to all the difficulties, we have managed to put in place a maneuver which is in any case expansive in some respects. Now we need to put in place new impulses and important investments to restart growth. I hope that, with the recovery, we can also put in place the release of a whole series of resources already allocated for investments, in particular, in infrastructure, but also against hydrogeological failure. And I hope that in that context we can find an important political compactness and will, also of the other political forces, next to mine, precisely to try to give answers also to Mayor Giovanni Ferro, to whom I referred at the beginning, because in that way we will respond not only to the needs of many of our young and less young compatriots abroad, but also to the interests of many of our territories. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u59	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u60	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when discussing a fundamental issue such as the budgetary law of a state, the approach should be more serious and less approximate. We are faced with a repeatedly changed budget law, without being able to understand what direction this Government wants to follow. As opposition forces we do not presume to share in any way the guidelines of this Commission, but we would at least like to understand what the guidelines are and would be respectful of all those who sit in these benches and have shown the broadest cooperation in the Commission when examining the measure. It is a budget bill that cannot identify development lines for VAT matches, which are the real engine of this country, nor for large industries; indeed, it does not have an idea of development of our state, except to think - for example - that the problems of Italian agriculture are solved by selling oranges to China, while in the meantime Europe labels our products as harmful to health and no position is taken by our Executive. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have high-level start-ups and technology companies. We are world leaders in different technological fields, but we are not able to value anything because, instead of having a macrosystem vision, you are limited to reasoning like those who look at whether the streetlight works out of the house or not. Nothing more. We continue to say that in Italy the bureaucracy is sinking the economy, encouraging corruption, but nothing is done to implement a simplification. We continue to increase our obligations, especially for citizens and local authorities, while in no way reducing the waste, waste and inefficiencies of the public administration, in particular the ministries, for which the spending review does not exist. The municipalities are in trouble. There are realities where local administrators replace employees in order to provide services to citizens and this majority, instead of unblocking recruitment for local authorities virtuous and under-staffed, authorizes the recruitment of managerial positions in the various ministries, where, statistically, over the years it has cut much less than the municipalities. It is a veritable insult to the mayors who every day clash with a reality quite different from the one you tell in this assembly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a bill of budget where citizens are put in the background, as well as in the background has been put their health. Recent data show that a person's quality of life depends not only on work, for which we have seen that a strategic vision is lacking, but also on the health of each person. This financial manoeuvre certainly does not place health at the heart of government action. The resources provided for the National Health Fund are those planned by last year's budget law and little more. There was no willingness to update the LEAs by finding the necessary resources. There was no desire to increase the funds for research. There was no willingness to deal seriously with the problem of residents. There was no willingness to solve the problem of multiple sclerosis patients. With regard to this disease, it is clear that there is a difference of treatment with respect to other diseases, for which ad hoc funds have been created; but the amendment that proposed to be able to deduct the expenses for the dedicated staff had the contrary vote of this majority, more committed to curbing families and finding the resources to be allocated to the celebrations for the foundation of the Communist Party for its hundred years, than to take charge of these problems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lonardo]] We cannot wash our consciences by saying that everything is included in the Non-self-sufficiency Fund, because that is not the case. And you can't insult our intelligence and the sick by trivializing the answers. It is true; the accounts have to settle, but you can cut places that are dispersed in a thousand rivoli and that for this Government are obviously more important than the health of the citizens. It's always just a matter of choices. Giving answers on a topic such as health means giving dignity to those who suffer, giving hope, giving a chance to believe in a future for the sick and their families. Investing in research, prevention, innovative and orphaned medicines, human resources, with the right enhancement of professionals operating in the National Health System, as well as reorganising the ways of training and specialisation means trying to save a universalist system envied by many states. However, it is necessary for the institutions to have courage, to be serious and responsible interlocutors, to have a vision and, above all, to have the health of Italian citizens at heart. There is no system vision in this budget maneuver, nor is there any thought from which it is clear that investing in health care means giving answers to those who suffer, improving their quality of life and, at the same time, reducing spending. Similarly, there is no attention for the family and the working mother, who should not be placed in the condition of choosing between family and work and between work and children. It is often the case that women, who are already on the same payroll for lower wages up to 30%, are left at home or invited to stay at home at second maternity leave because they are not allowed partime. It is therefore, in fact, a non-choice. It was necessary to intervene on the cost of labour and to offer companies the convenience of keeping in the working world trained people who, at the same time, can feel valued and contribute to family income and not trivialize the issue with a simple bonus, namely the bonus baby, among other things paid to everyone, instead of assigned to those families where both parents work. Families are increasingly in difficulty because of the burden of taxation and the governments of the left and the current want - with the hat in hand, year after year, of financial in financial - to hold them suspended, waiting to know if this or that deduction will be confirmed, reduced or raised. Italian families deserve a different social pact, lower taxation and a guarantee that those who escape will be punished. They have the right to live and not to survive. These are some of the issues on which we can only express an absolutely negative opinion on the financial manoeuvre under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u62	Mr President, before we deal with the content of the measure, we go to the genesis of who created it, it is carrying out and saying that this budgetary manoeuvre is the best that our country could have. It is in office a government born last summer - remember - with the excuse that it was necessary to prevent the increase of VAT. So, in haste and fury, a government was born between the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party (later Italy Viva arrived). In the end we found ourselves a government that everything is, except the Executive who had to bring home the budget law. In fact, the draft budget law has remained in the Senate forty days and all this time you have shown us everything and the opposite of everything, making us watch scenes worthy of the dramatic films of the fifties. You promised a budget law to relaunch our country (also today I heard that the country will be relaunched), and then you realize that the money did not have it and so you presented a tax balance against families and companies. This is the Government of taxes and handcuffs; of handcuffs and taxes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Corporate car taxes are provided (you have unleashed the Putiferium by companies), plastic taxes and sugar taxes. If we look at the taxes on plastic and sugar, I would like to remind you that the Minister Di Maio at first, to justify them, said that they would serve for the future, for our children and for the environment; that the two taxes (especially the one on plastic) had to be borne; that he was a statesman and looked not just at today, but at the medium and long term. Well, you have to explain something to Minister Di Maio. What did you do after the plastic producing districts (especially those of Emilia-Romagna) complained? You pretended to go back. You told us that you would reduce it first and then remove it, and then tell us that it would only be postponed, but with a lower amount. Gentlemen, make peace with yourselves; you cannot claim to have achieved a great result. I would particularly like to address my colleagues from Italy Viva, whom I do not see at the moment. If you enter a tax in the Council of Ministers and then realize that you have included it because you were sleeping at that time in the Council of Ministers, you cannot say that you have achieved a result. No, you put in a tax. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You too, dear friends of Italia Viva. Let's tell Senator Renzi that his ministers were sleeping at that time; it has to be said. I would like to focus mainly on the sugar tax. Again you told us that it was for the welfare of our children. You are also taxing unsweetened drinks; with the sugar tax you tax unsweetened drinks. Let's face it: it's a tax to make money. And, in particular, we do it on a sector that is not that of multinationals, but of agro-food. In fact, there are Italian multinationals who are using Italian sugar to help our agri-food and agriculture because in the last government, when we were there, we had forced them to include Italian sugar in the production process. There are multinational companies - some may tear their hair - that use the citrus fruits of Sicily, only Sicilian citrus fruits, only Italian citrus fruits. When we go to tax that type of drink, we don't help children, we screw companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, we have tried to improve this budget law, we have taken forward projects to try to improve it and modify it on the two subjects of our competence, by tabling 75 amendments on agriculture and 30 amendments on tourism. Speaking of agriculture, I would have liked to see Mr Bellanova here this afternoon, instead of seeing her this morning when her boss spoke, but that was the case. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So let's talk about some issues. We have tabled an amendment on the containment of wildlife; all of you at the Coldiretti demonstration showed up and promised the farmers that you would do something and did nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You put your face in front of the farmers and, once again, the word is worth nothing. The amendment was rejected. We have tabled an amendment to increase the organic budget of the Carabinieri Command for agri-food protection, because we want to protect and promote this sector. The amendment was rejected. We had tabled an amendment that provided for 100 million euros to help Italian food companies that suffer damage from duties; 100 million euros. You have rejected our amendment and tabled an amendment that allocates EUR 1 million. What do you think you're doing with a million euros? Do you think you're going to the United States, as Minister Bellanova said to tell Americans to eat Italian cheese because it's good? Do you think that's enough? Do you think it's enough for Minister Bellanova to go across the ocean and tell the Americans to eat Italian cheese? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Gentlemen, seriousness when working; seriousness. In the field of labelling, agri-food rating to provide excellent certifications to companies participating in our innovative project; 100 million euros to combat concretely the weird concepts of nourishing score and labelling at traffic lights. This is now on the agenda in Europe. We have put forward an alternative proposal to the weird project that is taking place in Europe and which is taking place mainly in France; EUR 100 million. Well, on this subject too, many words, zero facts. We wonder what the Government is doing; in Italy, nothing, and in Europe we will see it in the coming weeks. As far as tourism is concerned, here too we have a Minister who has promised us so many words, but few facts. In the budget law on tourism, zero. In particular, I would like to address my colleagues in the tourism sector who are listening to us; they have put nothing on tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They promised the tax credit: zero. We also discussed this with our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and tabled an amendment, but nothing. Among the various things I understand that Minister Bellanova's chief of staff is the same person who issued the sentence who, in their opinion, should kill the beaches. Good stuff. Relaunch of spas: we have tabled an amendment to re-launch spas in our country. Do you know, dear friends of the government, that the baths are in crisis? No, you don't, and in fact you failed. We talked in this House about Thomas Cook's failure and we made proposals: you failed to say that you were thinking about it, that you were thinking about what to do. You didn't do anything; we put the same proposal back on the table, to help travel agencies, tour operators and Italian hotels and you failed it. You failed everything. With regard to the adaptation of accommodation facilities for the completion of fire-fighting systems, we have also tabled an amendment to help our accommodation facilities complete these projects: rejected. We had made proposals on extending the exit from the Bolkestein directive also for the nautical sector, inland waters and marinas: it is a project that everyone is asking for, the whole tourism system. We proposed it, but nothing. The question of hostels, gentlemen, is before everyone's eyes: we sacrificed the system of youth hostels of our country simply for an internal problem of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A person in the hostel sector works for a 5 Star Movement Undersecretary and, for this very reason, every time we present this amendment, you reject it. Make peace with yourselves. The conflict of interest is at home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] With the vote of confidence that you will ask us in the next few days you have exhausted the mission of this Government. You have done Italians a favor: you have avoided the increase in VAT. Now do another favor: free us from yourselves, free us from your presence and send the Italians to vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u63	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dealing with this draft budget law has been very difficult because of the very heavy legacy that this Government, after just a few months, has been on its shoulders. But in the face of great responsibility, for good for the country, he has not escaped, indeed. Today we can say that the main objectives have been achieved: firstly, the sterilization of VAT clauses, which was not at all taken for granted. I am among those who claim that Salvini caused the crisis and asked for elections, because he knew that he would never be able to stop VAT increases; that burden would have fallen on citizens and families. We have prevented this and today we can tell Italian families that there will be no increase and that the plan to charge them between 500 and 600 euros a year more has been avoided. Having committed 23 billion euros to avoid the increase in VAT has left little room for other interventions, which however we think are fundamental to increase the growth and the economy of our country. Yet, despite such small margins, this draft budget law has significant and unthinkable objectives until a few weeks ago, such as a significant reduction in labour taxes and a reduction in income taxes for employees. We have set up a single fund for the family, which is once again central to the government's public finance choices. Deciding to invest in the social system for the family is a great reformative choice, for which I am grateful to the Government. To have increased the Fund by 600 million and, since 1 January, to have secured free kindergartens for the vast majority of Italian families means to have made significant strategic choices. It is not, in fact, conceivable to stem the crisis resulting from the demographic decline without thinking of actively supporting families. In 2018 12.4% of Italian families did not register their children in kindergartens for too costly costs. It is a change of paradigm compared to previous policies, of which to be proud, because putting the family and the concrete needs of the family at the center of our commitments means doing the concrete interests of the country. In this regard, I would like to stress one thing that is particularly close to my heart and that this Government has taken on board: to significantly increase the resources of the Disability and Non-self-sufficiency Fund means to really engage in the training of people with disabilities, to create a database for their targeted placement, to give real support to families, who have the right not to feel abandoned, as all the associations in my territory that deal with disability (associations of volunteers, professionals and family), in the coordination table that we have set up and that I hope will soon become a consolidated regional and national reality, which will give us the opportunity to bring to the attention of the institutions the real needs of families with the sick or disabled. An investment in the future is the so-called green economy. This maneuver is courageous, because it decides to put a lot of resources in favour of environmental sustainability and therefore puts a proactive mortgage on our future: 55 billion in fifteen years, of which 9 for the next three years. The health card is abolished: this is a measure of civilization, as well as of concrete help for the elderly and for all those in need of health care. We must have more courage to claim it as a great merit for the government and the majority that supports it. In this framework of general choices to be proud of, I also claim many positive choices that we have obtained for a border region such as Friuli-Venezia Giulia, from the support to a scientific reality of world importance, such as the International High School of Advanced Studies (SISSA), to which the Leghistic Government of Friuli-Venezia Giulia has removed 500,000 euros of funding, promptly returned by our Government, to the amendment that allows to hire personnel in health care in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. In fact, the amendment repealing the obligation for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to maintain the reduction of personnel costs was accepted; a very important result for the needs of our regional health system, so far penalized by a rule included by the League in Decree-Law No 35 of 2019 (so-called Calabria Decree). It must therefore be emphasized the satisfaction for having removed a serious objective penalty of health and a vulnus to the autonomy of the Region, also because one cannot think to delegate exclusively to the private sector the health, as the Legist government of Friuli-Venezia Giulia is doing, and to impoverish and weaken public health, which is good for all. Allow me to conclude with a note of appreciation for the requests (although unfortunately only in a very small part, due to the legacy of that 23 billion hole that we have been forced to cover) that are made to us by the entire Department of Defense and Forces of the Order. Our commitment to this is certainly not limited to this budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u65	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now arrived - and I do not know whether to say at last, in view of the conclusions - at the debate on the 2020 budget law, which is now sadly known throughout the country as the law of taxes and handcuffs. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] We are talking about taxes, to name a few, on sugar and plastic; I would also add the possibility given to municipalities and other bodies to get to the foreclosure of the current accounts of citizens who are dying much faster than it is today, bypassing the issue of the debitory folder. It is not a tax, but yet another affront to the Italians, and it is therefore right to talk about it. MIRABELLI (PD). Italians who don't pay. CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). I said these taxes are sadly known. In a hypothetical hit parades they wouldn't have any rivals, they would climb it and get to the top places. Even if postponed for a few months, they represent the real mirror, unfortunately true, of who this country is trying - clumsily, in reality - to govern. No vision of the future, no serious investment for growth, no cuts in unproductive spending, but only taxes, taxes and more taxes. The country is compact in rejecting your government's economic recipe: The Court of Auditors has spoken of the lack of an organic framework; the self-employed accuse you of not having envisaged any intervention in their favour and I could continue for a long time but, alas, the time available to me does not allow me to go any further. I have tried - I say nonsense - in this draft budget law and in its 119 articles elements of positivity, but I have not found in any of these pages and in any of these articles a drawing, a perspective that can make us hope; on the contrary, it seems that the main objective is to close its doors happily, smiling. There is nothing to be happy about, no reason for Italian companies to continue to fight every day; companies that so much expected and instead had so much only in terms of indifference and lack of interest; no reason that gives them the conviction that it is right to continue investing in a country like Italy, that it is right to continue creating new jobs, especially for our young people, and thus remove them from the forced rest to which you forced them with the income of citizenship; nothing to avoid the further closure of companies and activities and to avoid other corporate crises, also because there are already those existing ones that you can not face, let alone the new ones. And yet, gentlemen of the majority, there would be so much to do, especially for my own, our Mezzogiorno. Dramatic is what emerged from the 2019 report of the Association for the industrial development of the Mezzogiorno (Svimez): in 2018 the gross domestic product in the South grew by 0.6 percent compared to 1% of 2017; bad have gone consumption, which are practically zero compared to the Centre-North, where they grow by 0.7% and exceed the pre-crisis levels. Since 2000, more than 2 million people have left the South and more than half of them are young, widening the employment gap even more than the Centre-North. I could continue for a long time with all these figures, yet one of them impressed me in particular: I am talking about the collapse of public investment. Svimez estimates that in 2018 the capital expenditure fell for our South from 10,4 billion to 10,3 billion euros; in the same period at the Centre-North rose from 20,22 billion to 24,3 billion. Turning to agriculture, a sector that is dear to me, in the draft budget law only two articles are devoted to this sector (I say two really in number), in which there is little or nothing and that little turns out to be almost an insult to those - I address my fellow farmers - are today fighting plagues such as Xylella annoying, the Asian bug, the problem of wildlife (which we are dealing with in the 9th Commission, but for whom we still do not find solutions) and to Italian farmers who, despite unfair competition, bear higher production costs that make them less competitive on domestic and international markets. In this connection, we have tabled a draft law with my colleagues to protect the income of our agricultural productions. As I said, I turn to those who continue, despite everything, to fight and sell our food excellences that envy and imitate us. The sector has lived for years in a perpetual state of siege, in a perennial emergency situation, and hoped to have concrete and immediate answers, as well as a medium-term plan to get out of this tunnel that is destroying a national heritage. The invasion of alien animal species, the unexpected and violent weather events, the phenomenon of Italian soiling, wildlife, the defence of Made in Italy, the international war on prices, the problem of export duties of our products representing the flagship flowers are just some of the factors that are burdening on the shoulders of our farmers, not to mention the outstanding account on the new common agricultural policy (CAP), currently under discussion. There is no answer in this document, if not small insufficient tips, yet the data tell us that the dynamics of youth agricultural employment grew in the Mezzogiorno by 12.9% more than the Italian average. It would therefore have been necessary to review, for example, access to the contributions provided for by the Rest Fund in the South, especially in the agricultural sector. We would have liked the same fund set up under Article 39 of the Budgetary Act, Cresce al Sud, to provide for the extension of the audience of persons who could have access to it. Once again, therefore, we record only mortifications: and to think that you have decided not to give the agricultural sector the attention it deserves, just what more than any other could have helped you and help us on that environmental plan that you have so much praised and brought among the key points of your program, but then in fact finds no application. Who, more than the agricultural sector, can fight the abandonment of the internal areas in terms of both employment and the fight against hydrogeological failure, with a just agricultural policy that, as already in place, reduces the use of natural resources (water in the first place) and is respectful of the environment with its organic productions? But nothing, it doesn't matter. Not even the agricultural sector has all this importance for you, so much we will get to eat pills with the flavor of pasta, bread, milk, cheese, cold cuts, meat, oil, fruit, vegetables, wine, etc. They would have been fundamental investments for new infrastructures, but nothing: the ideology of no to everything has won again, leaving our Mezzogiorno practically isolated, with a shameful lack of transport services at the railway, road and air level. Air fares are the example of the lack of attention to the Mezzogiorno: often leaves dismayed the expensive prices at which our fellow citizens are subjected, who as their only wish, especially during this period, have to reach their family members for the Christmas holidays. Not to mention the Calabrian health system in particular, which represents yet another mortification for citizens who are not guaranteed even the minimum levels of health care. All this to say that we do not like this budget law, does not have a vision of the country of the future and will not generate growth, but only new taxes, depressing the entrepreneurial push. Yet, being a stubborn agricultural entrepreneur from Calabria, I am by my nature optimistic and I always see the light at the end of the tunnel, which is why from these opposition benches now - but I hope soon from those of the majority - my colleagues and I will continue to light on who for your mistakes and your shortsightedness finds no place in these sad and inconsistent 119 articles. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u67	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u68	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about this budget law, which, as I believe everyone knows, is a policy-free maneuver, with a long, more or less obvious tax collection and a lack of planning vision for the coming years. Moreover, it could only be so, given the lack of cohesion of the present majority, in a perennial state of agitation, on any subject or choice. Of course, cohesion is sometimes found in the end, because of the maintenance of the status quo, which I also find legitimate, but it does not honour your electoral programmes and what the country, in all honesty, really needs. I say this because for your own admission - or rather, at the request of President Monti, the faded one - a majority check and probably a government contract are necessary: moreover, it is sadly known that the birth of this Government is due to the intention not to win the League, which would probably win the elections, if you went to vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] This is a well-known motivation for the voters, who for this reason give us confidence, participating in those squares, which are so scary, and at the same time making you lose consent. It seems quite evident to me that, if anyone goes up, there are those who go down. And to think that paradoxically - and I say this in all honesty, because I think so - elections would be a necessity for everyone, first and foremost for citizens, who could finally have an elected government. LANZI (M5S). Why, isn't this? RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Elections would also be a necessity for parties, which could regain a minimum of identity and claim a clear place in the panorama of political proposals and without compromise. I say this in particular to those who, after years of battle, perhaps later find themselves at the side of those who fought harshly, trying clumsily to justify it. I am referring to Umbria, in which the world's best performance of mortal and immoral leap of modern politics has been achieved. This seems to me to be very obvious. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this without controversy, because that kind of alliance was also legitimate, but for the sake of the truth, because the message passed to the people, if you listen to it again, is exactly this: a clumsy and disconcerted way of justifying a government alliance that, if not for the reason I spoke of earlier, would have had no reason to exist. Unless some of the actors in that Umbrian disaster wanted to prove to the whole world, understood as Giuseppe Conte, that any structural agreement with the Democratic Party is a failure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But if that were the case, then, please, go back to being yourself and do so through confrontation with the voters. He never scared you. You always say it: it doesn't scare us to go and vote. So let democracy win. Let the people, holy heavens, express themselves. I close my speech by referring to Amendment 63.15, which I tabled, relating to the complex crisis area in Savona, which, of course, because of the fact that this Government is short-sighted, has been rejected. That President Monti faded was, let's say, not inclined to always tell the truth, I knew it (like, probably, all the members of my parliamentary group). But if in this government, of which are two former members of the 10th The Commission, these even deny themselves, then we really are ridiculous. If for the Democratic Party part I had any suspicions - regardless, for the truth - about the other component of government really did not. For Christ's sake, I understand that sometimes virtue is made of necessity, but in this way the role of the Commissioners is degraded. With the undersecretary Castaldi, of which I estimate, at the time the Holding Company of the 10th Commission, we asked President Girotto to set up a deal assigned precisely on the areas of complex crisis of the Country, starting with Savona, continuing with Taranto and passing through the Marches, and precisely with him and the other colleagues we faced hearings, missions and written resolutions. There are three members of the 10th Commission who can testify that I am telling the truth. In fact, the amendment is not the result of a desire to appear of the undersigned, but the result of a long, in-depth work, which led to the unanimous adoption of a resolution demanding, among other things, the financing of the Savonese crisis area, also because of the goodness of the projects presented. It is to be thought that, precisely on the occasion of the corporate crisis decree and in place of the same amendment that I tabled at the time, an agenda (to which we must give some value) had been unanimously approved, which committed the Government to financing the Savonese crisis area in this budget law. And it was Perilli who supported him during the examination in the Commission. The Commission had expressed its willingness to write an assessment, but, for the sake of truth, the leader Perilli argued that this was to be an agenda of commitment to the Government. And, oh, my God, it's gone wild. I would be a little ashamed, because the role of the Commissioners and the role of Parliament, which is so dear to you, is completely demeaning! If not even through a shared path, made of parliamentary initiative, so dear to those who preach direct and parliamentary democracy, they succeed in achieving results, perhaps only because they are others to propose them, this is a defeat of all. You missed a chance to give an important signal. Among other things, the funds to be allocated are a loan for businesses, not lost funds, and we are talking about a territory that has been severely tested in recent weeks. Know this: we will succeed in the same way, despite the deafening silence of some Savonese MPs who have taken a seat from the territory and have returned nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And be ashamed of the Government, which cancels the information I requested to relate to the territories affected by the bad weather! And be ashamed who came to pass it! I am referring to Minister Bellanova, who summoned the mayors to the prefecture to say nothing, removing them from the territories where they could shovel landslides, fix the streets and bring people back to their homes! I'd be ashamed. But there is no problem: you have humiliated a territory, leaving it unanswered, you have preferred to survive without having the courage to come and report to the House! But be serene, as someone who is cannibalizing you said: the Region of Liguria, the Province of Savona and their administrators in particular will know how to repay you with the same coin, screw you like you are doing with them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the draft budget law 2020, with all its problems and facets, I would like to draw your attention to certain measures relating to health. They always go in the direction and in the perspective of the protection of the health of citizens with norms and legislative solutions for issues that are of high social importance for their direct impact on the health of the individual and of the community. I cannot fail to point out with pride, as spokesperson for the 5 Star Movement, the increase in the allocation of the Fund for Disability and Non-self-sufficiency that with the 80 million allocated for 2020, the 200 million for 2021 and the 300 million for 2022 represents a concrete and tangible signal of real support for people with disabilities. Maximum attention should be paid to their right and sacred demands, so that they can find a viable solution to their economic difficulties, their integration into work and the possibility of access to public services, transport and social inclusion. All of this must not remain a dream book of the kind: I wish, I would do but I cannot. The subsequent adoption of interventions aimed at the reorganization and systematic redefinition of disability support policies represents a strong signal of change first of all cultural and then programming in which disability, with all its economic weight and its social impact, is seen no longer as a reason for division and disintegration but as a firm point of the process of inclusion and social balance. I would like to stress another aspect that we could call socio-sanitary present in this budget maneuver: the bonus for the purchase of artificial milk with an amount that can reach a maximum of 400 euros and be paid up to the sixth month of life of the infant. This facility is aimed at mothers who cannot breastfeed due to pathological conditions, including cases of hypogalacty and agalacty. It will be a subsequent decree of the Ministry of Health, by March 2020, to establish the economic requirements and pathologies for which you have access to the bonus. I would like to reiterate the importance, uniqueness and benefits of breast-feeding as a natural gesture that we all need to promote. In this regard, we have presented a bill which provides for the doubling of the hours of abstention from work for breast-feeding for the first six months of the child's life. With this in mind, if the clinical conditions do not exist in order to achieve this natural gesture, that is, to give one's own milk to his child, the new mothers must be helped. The contribution will enable mothers to better address the health problem, on the other hand it will reduce the impact on the family economy that the purchase of artificial milk and its cost brings with it. Always with the same social focus, I wanted to remind you of the establishment of the National Fund for endometriosis, with a budget of 5,000,000 euros for each year of the three-year period, a fund intended to support the study and scientific research for this chronic disease that afflicts about three million women in Italy. It is a complex pathological process, capable of compromising not only the integrity of the female reproductive system but the functionality of many vital abdominal and pelvic organs. The importance of early diagnosis and adequate multidisciplinary treatment is crucial and aims to improve the quality of life of women affected by it. This is a first important and concrete signal that looks forward, encouraging research and studies on this pathology, leaving to the bill n. 888 at the first signature of Deputy Minister Sileri a more in-depth analysis and appropriate measures (establishment of the national register, work issues, information campaigns, updating of health and parasanitary staff). Another measure I want to put to the attention is the increase in the fund for the activities of the Italian Registry of donors and bone marrow. The aim is to promote the awareness-raising process of all citizens to give, because donating a part of us can save so many other lives, in line with the constitutional principle of safeguarding the right to life. There is also an economic problem to be considered: the better the Italian donor register works, the less resources the Italian State must invest to acquire compatible bone marrows from abroad and consequently more economic availability can be invested in typing, increasing also the number of people who want and can donate. I believe that what has been said so far can be one of the examples of how good policy and the institutions can and must act, not only in the field of health: to listen to the demands of citizens, associations, scientific societies and to draw up appropriate regulatory measures that represent a concrete and effective response to the problem resolution. In addition, the issues discussed are one of the examples of proper use of public funds in health and better planning of actions to be carried out for the future. In fact, making targeted prevention not only allows a subsequent economic saving in terms of therapeutic costs and care in chronic diseases, but to an extent no less important allows to achieve an improvement in the quality and life expectancy of citizens. Alongside the characterizing and major social impact measures adopted for the health universe (such as the abolition of superticket, an imposing and discriminatory rule because it is not applied uniformly throughout the national territory), these simple and linear measures in their application will however have a major impact on the future health of us Italian citizens and this is a discriminating and characterizing element of true forward-looking health policies but finally dropped in the everyday reality. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Toffanin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u72	Mr President, perhaps some of my colleagues who have approached this budget law with enthusiasm since the first time may have seemed a great mess, but in reality it was not a great mess, but a huge mess: the most chaotic thing I have seen in these years of management of the budget Commission. I see Senator Guerra among the government's benches, who has some experience in this regard, but a budget law like the one we have seen this year had never been seen. But I'm going to a much more recent memory... MIRABELLI (PD). We didn't even see her last year. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Senator, it is so, because you like it or not, we are in a system of bicameralism that has always allowed, with the passage to the House and the Senate, to compensate in the second reading the inevitable errors that enter into a budget maneuver. This year, because of the length of time and the unfortunate choices of the majority, which led you to corrode this budgetary manoeuvre with amendments on amendments and sub-amendments to the amendments of the rapporteurs (things you had never seen), you have been in this House in the Senate for forty days, in which the opposition did not make it ourselves, but you did it yourself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We, as an opposition, have taken responsibility for taking our amendments and even synthesized them in order to bring, in any case, a budgetary maneuver to the approval of the Senate, because on the horizon you have put yourself so much on a dangerous slope that you have exposed and are exposing the country to the risk of the provisional exercise. Even the maneuver when he gets out of this Senate Chamber will go to the House and there it will be armored. Last year the Democratic Party appealed to the Constitutional Court for Parliament's failure to enter into the choices of the maneuver. The government has changed, you went to the government of the 5 Stars and the PD and now you do the same thing worse, even preventing the other House from being able in any way to characterize or enter into the choices of the Government. As Senator Lucidi said here yesterday, the majority resolution was not written by the political benches of the 5 Stars or PD, but was written at Palazzo Chigi, and when those who are supposed to represent the citizens are dictated by the government what it has to say, it is giving up its function as representative of the people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I also say to you that, perhaps distractingly, someone in recent days, when he tabled the rapporteur's amendments, forgot to delete under the signature 'Government', for which amendments came in with the inscription 'Government' deleted in pen and corrected with 'the rapporteur'. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is to avoid going to Accounting to ask for the boiling! These are the things you're giving your side. This is the great democratic revolution of the 5 Star Movement. You have taken the same vices as the Democratic Party by making them worse and even preventing parliamentarians from being able to play their role as citizens' representatives. You may have the confidence in the Palace games here; you will ask for it in the next few hours and prevent any possibility of amendment to the Senate and the House, but that same confidence you will have here will no longer have it from the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , because when you tax people to take away the ability to believe in the future, you lose the confidence of the country. And don't go and tell them you're doing an ethical maneuver because you're putting the plastic tax in; don't go and say you're doing an ethical maneuver because you're putting in the sugar tax. Tell the truth, you're putting new taxes on citizens. [[Comments of Senator Lanzi]] Bravo! Remember that in here your salary is paid by those who go to work with their taxes and produce plastic and sugar! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Shame on you and bring in respect to citizens who pay taxes. Shame on you! When you disrespect those who pay taxes, you disrespect democracy itself. That is what is happening here: they lose their sense of reality, Mr President. Let us remind him then, because when we go to buy a product and it will cost more - let us remember that they have put 45 cents of tax per kilo on any plastic, because it is indistinguishable what is recycled from what is not - this cost will go indistinguishably on all the products and will close the factories and close the productions. What you find today on the market produced in Italy, will be produced abroad and imported in Italy. That's what you're doing. When you make this budget manoeuvre by inserting 800 million euros, then 1.5 billion, then 1.8 billion, and to rise, of new excise duties, remember that you are leading to cost more transport, highways and production in Italy. When those oranges that today cannot go on the Italian and European market will cost even more and Coca-Cola will say, as it has already said, that it no longer buys oranges produced in Sicily because they cost too much compared to Spanish foreign productions, you will have it on your conscience. CIOFFI (M5S). Ask Senator Centinario. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have tried to help this budgetary manoeuvre in every way and have made proposals that were also in the line of the government programme, the one we had signed with the 5 Star Movement. We have seen things that could have been done and have not been done; we have seen things that have been done but not completely; we have tabled amendments to improve this: we have made proposals which do not correspond, however, to the interests of the majority. I refer to the amendments tabled on the whole safety area, in the specific case on fire brigades. We are very pleased to have seen an important step forward towards so-called equalisation. But it has given us great regret to feel controversy that does not take into account a work that we had begun to do together, and that is not partisan heritage but is the shared heritage of that majority that in 2018 began to make an important reform within the management of the security system and emergency technical assistance. Mr President, honestly it would have been enough to say that, as for those who want to build a house: If there is no money you don't make the house; if you have the money but not the project you don't complete the house. We need both. We have left operations; Minister Salvini has left the ability to design. You have begun to follow this path, but you have not had the courage to do so to the end because the equalization of the fire department, as we have proposed it and as the same studies of the Ministry of the Interior say, completes to 216 million euros, not to 65, 144 or 160. That is not equalization; it is an important step forward, but you must not sell for equalization what is not. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then when you rejected our amendment to hire 1,000 new firefighters, you were placed before the responsibility of choosing to hand over a handful of 500 men divided over three years. We asked, instead, another thing, that is, to give the possibility to strengthen the staff of the National Corps of Firefighters, as we have already done together in the maneuver of 2018, inserting 1,500 men (but they would have been enough 1,000). You cut it in half and you put 500. Why did you do that? Because you didn't have the courage to go and say that the leftovers of the citizenship income could be used to strengthen the rescue device, as was also written by Minister Di Maio. With yesterday's resolution we saw that you did not hesitate to ignore what your political leader said: in the morning Minister Di Maio said that the government had to return to the Chambers before putting its signature on the MES and in the afternoon you rejected the resolution by which the government was asked to commit itself to return here before putting the final signature. That is what you are doing: you are satisfied with the marks in Article 44 of the draft budget law. President, that is a shame. I remember last year when, at the beginning of the budgetary manoeuvre, we talked to Senator Crimi and it was said that we would not do what the Democratic Party did. It was said: we will not make a law with micro-sectoral marches inside (300,000 euros on the one hand, 100,000 on the other, one million here and one million on the other). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have prepared the budget maneuver according to the marchettes put in Article 44 of the draft budget law and you have done so by going to pick up one by one the senators of the Commission and going to pick up here the votes. Nor will the President of the Republic be able to put this budgetary manoeuvre back because we know very well that, in the last few days, sending it back would mean pushing the country into provisional operation. That is why, by your mechanism, you prevent the controller from being able to play his part; prevent Parliament from being able to represent the citizens and only make sure that the government puts gags on this Parliament and citizens and puts new taxes on them. This is the extraordinary revolution you are making with the Democratic Party. You are more and more like each other; you have become one. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Toffanin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u74	Mr President, two months ago this maneuver seemed to shake his wrists and perhaps someone before us had been frightened and decided to leave. We had to avoid the causes of safeguard, which were not the same as in previous years, but much higher; we had to pay additional costs given by a growth that was expected in the state budget at 1.5% and it was not more than 0.2; we had to pay the cost of a year of spread at over 300 points, which cost so much more our public debt. It seemed difficult to do these things without increasing taxes, without cutting health care, services, transfers to municipalities and without cutting on research. We did it. It's not a tax maneuver, and then I'll say it's not even a handcuff maneuver. You will see that the Italians, after this noise, will notice themselves. We have done this and not only it responds to these needs, but it is a maneuver that starts a reform season, which has a clear figure and looks at the weakest and at the same time at growth. Of course, there weren't the resources we would have wanted in the situation that I told you about, but we are starting a path made of cutting taxes at work and more money in the pocket to workers; more investments on health care and the cancellation of the superticket; more money for families, for nests and for disabled people. To put it this way with my colleague Siri, we have dealt with an aberration that lives in this country: this aberration is called 108 billion euros of tax evasion that the country needs to fight. We move from the nine condones to the traceability of money; from the messages for which those who do not pay taxes are justified by the fact that taxes exist, and that in the end it must be understood, if not even helped, who escapes the obligation to pay taxes, to the recognition that if everyone in this country paid taxes, everyone would pay less and we would all be better. No, it's not: to say that you have to pay taxes for some is horrible. To say that it is not only employees who unfortunately have to pay them, but who have to pay them all, it is considered unacceptable, such as to say that those who escape must be punished. Here are the handcuffs: the handcuffs are for those who escape more than 100,000 euros, for having cheating the tax consciously with false invoices or rigging the registers with dole. Do we really think these are handcuffs? But do we really think it's justiceism? I call it another way: it's called justice, because we're talking about this. It is called justice, simply justice, and it is an insult to honest Italians to continue to argue that those who do not pay taxes should be protected. Among the many points in this maneuver I want to highlight two. First of all, this maneuver should be mentioned for interventions on the housing issue. I've heard a lot about the dry coupon that's not there. In fact, this maneuver not only confirms the dry coupon for the agreed fees, which allows so many citizens to have a house at sustainable rents, but that 10 percent dry coupon is finally permanent and will no longer have to be extended every year. Today the owners who want to rent know that this coupon of 10% will pay forever, not just for one or two years. We have with the maneuver and with the amendments in this House again set up the rent support fund to help those who do not make it: 50 million every year for three years. And more: we have confirmed all the bonuses to make our homes safer, more energy efficient and more energy-saving. But above all we have foreseen a billion euros for the home floor - it has been many years since it was done - to start building housing that is needed and for those who need it most at affordable cost, requalifying the territory and doing urban regeneration, not consuming other soil. The second issue that I want to briefly mention and which qualifies this maneuver is the attention to the environment, the green economy, the circular economy, the intervention against the hydrogeological failure, for the reduction of emissions and for the realization and affirmation of renewable energy sources: 30 billion euros in the coming years to feed sustainable development, based on quality, that produces innovation, employment and a better environment. If we use the tax lever to reduce consumption that is harmful to the environment and to improve health, I think we are doing well. Of course, it must be done without penalising employment and production, so it is right what has been done, giving more time to promote a transition that converts production and protects work. We really cannot think, for three hundred and sixty-five days a year, that plastic is the worst enemy of the environment, of the sea and of nature and - then - torn our clothes if we try to reduce it. In short, it is a useful maneuver, important and not taken for granted, certainly different from that would have made the League. In fact, for us if we escape it is not the fault of taxes, but of those who do not pay them; for us if we think about the environment, we take care of the future and the future generations and not to consume as much as possible; for us the rules and transparency must be respected, not traded because it is appropriate; for us, Mr President, to fight crime means giving better working conditions to the Forces of Order (I think about the reorganization of careers and some real hiring for the Forces of Order). This is what we have done - facts and not talk - and this is our maneuver. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u76	Mr President, this is not the budgetary manoeuvre that Brothers of Italy would have done, it is not a mystery. This budget maneuver is all deficits, taxes, oppression and handcuffs. Our budget law would have been freedom of enterprise, less taxes and bureaucracy, deficit only for investment expenses, infrastructure and security, security of the territory, fight against the real evaders and not oppression to those who still, heroically, try to do business in Italy. They are different economic policy visions and a different state model. This is a maneuver clearly with a left-wing vision; ours would have been a maneuver clearly with a right-wing vision. All of this, however, will be discussed by my colleagues later and we will talk more about it in the explanation of vote. I want to use the time available to illustrate two amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy approved by the Budget Commission, which, therefore, save surprises, will see the light together with the budgetary maneuver. These amendments, of which we are very proud, show that on proposals of common sense we can finally achieve broad convergence, as they have been unanimously approved by the Budget Commission. Of course, if more amendments had been adopted by Brothers of Italy, the maneuver would have been even better, but we must be content. I would like to present these two amendments to you, which I think are very important. The first is Amendment 31.0.3, which finally puts a brake on the so-called crazy bills. I am referring to that hateful practice of charging amounts not due in bills, for consumption not performed or for services not required, by the operators of utilities (i.e. light, gas and telephony). (at 19.28) (Fazzular follow-up). All this is happening to date - citizens and consumers are well aware of it, because they are being harassed every day - because there is no penalty for the bodies issuing these crazy bills. The bill comes in for several thousand euros not due and the citizen must go on an obstacle course (hours of battles and passages for offices) to show that those amounts are not due. After enormous lengths, at best, those amounts not due are returned without the company that issued the bill not due paying any penalty for the irregularity. As well as, for example, with the very widespread practice of telephone services that we have not requested and that we are accused of each time, and then have to start the whole procedure to eliminate them. This is because, as I said before, the companies that provide services have only advantages in issuing these crazy bills, but no consequences. Well, as is said at this time, the parcel has ended because with this rule of Brothers of Italy introduces a concrete penalty and in case of issue of crazy bill, the body that issued it is required, besides of course to return what was wrongly received, also 10 percent of what was unduly demanded as compensation to the citizen for the time that he had to lose behind this crazy bill and an amount however not less than 100 euros. With this rule of civilization, Parliament finally stands in favour of the citizens and in favour of the people against an abuse which it has suffered for too many years. The second amendment of which Brothers of Italy is very proud is related to a norm that marks a kind of revolution in our model. This is the amendment addressed to our Italian community in Venezuela. As we all know, Venezuela is suffering years of enormous economic, political and social crisis, and all citizens are suffering dramatic consequences. It is estimated that more than three million Venezuelans are literally suffering from hunger. Among the Venezuelans there are two million citizens of Italian origin who are entitled to Italian citizenship: people who try in some way to see recognized a kind of protection by their motherland, that is, Italy, tens of thousands of whom have applied for Italian citizenship. The response times are unfortunately very long; it takes years and years to have an answer on the demand for citizenship. What have we done with the amendment by Brothers of Italy approved by the Budget Committee? We have established that the Venezuelan citizens of Italian origin who have already applied for citizenship, but who are still waiting for a reply, will in the meantime have the long-stay permit of the European Union or the residence permit for humanitarian reasons pending the response to their citizenship request, so that these fellow countrymen can in the meantime return to Italy and try to rebuild their lives here. They are people who do not ask for money, do not pretend to be kept with food and accommodation; other than 35 euros per day to keep them. It is only people of Italian origin who ask their motherland to be able to return to their homeland. Thanks to the amendment by Brothers of Italy this will be possible and is, in my opinion, a measure of which we must all be very proud. To complete the amendment, we have also requested the allocation of EUR 500 000 per year for the next two years to speed up the assessment of citizenship. In the context of a budget law which the Brothers of Italy do not like, these are amendments which, in my opinion, must be proud not only of us, but of all the Parliament which has approved them. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u77	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to highlight other aspects of this draft budget law. We know how difficult and complex it has been, also because of the situation given, as has been well pointed out by my fellow Members who have preceded me. However, we have certainly marked some important victories, especially from the social and cultural point of view, and we have also touched on important sensitivities, if we think about the issue of equal opportunities. In fact, I would like to focus on this particular point. I believe that, as a majority in government and as Italy Viva, together with the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars, having managed to bring the theme of the athletes within this financial maneuver, after so many years and after what had happened last year, when a similar amendment had been made inadmissible, should be considered a great result. I thank the Government and, in this case, the Undersecretary War. It was not obvious, yet EUR 11 million was allocated. It is a first step, because we have not solved all the problems, but it is an important step, which must see us happy and happy, also as women of this Senate. It is important, because for a long time the world of sport has been asking politics to finally address this issue, to fill a gap that was really incomprehensible. Compared to other countries, we have a huge delay. These athletes, who are grateful to us all, have achieved enormous results. They are professional in the field, but then they are treated by legal amateurs. It's no longer acceptable. Today, politics has taken this important step. It's the first step. Clearly, we now ask the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport and the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the family to continue to work on this. Clearly, the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, when he sets up the working table on women's professionalism in January, will have to include the subject within the delegation law on sport. I believe, however, that with this result we can finally talk about something concrete, not only as a symbol, which is already important, given the results; I think about our swimmers, who have brought gold medals these days, and our football players, with the women's football World Cup. But finally we give the opportunity for the next three years to sports clubs, which conclude employment contracts with athletes, to have the total exemption from the payment of social security contributions, up to the maximum limit of 8,000 euros per year. I think it is an important result because it is added, not only from the work point of view, to another result that we had already achieved with the maternity fund for athletes. This has also been a result that we have achieved over the years, with a battle, I must say, also cross-cutting that then the majority have been able to make their own. These athlete women work full time, they choose sport as a profession when they get to these levels. The fact that theirs was always a precarious job, without a pension, without a fixed salary, always linked to the results that can be obtained or not was really a problem, which often led the athletes to decide, if perhaps they could not bring satisfactory results, to abandon that sport, that passion, that symbol that, like Italy, sees us then protagonists in many great sporting events. Well, I believe that, with this hope, we are addressing today, above all, the youngest, the girls who want to get closer to sport, and at last perhaps we are giving the opportunity to sports federations, which are sometimes also unsensitive to them, to open up more and to really start a dialogue with politics and with institutions. We need to create and grow sports nurseries; this means creating equal access conditions for girls and boys. Sport is important and not only has a great ethical value, but it also has a preventive value towards many forms of dependence. I also think about health: we know how good it is for our girls and our boys. They often identify themselves as testimonials of excellence; I think of our Federica Pellegrini and other important symbols that honor us in the world of sport worldwide. Well, I believe that from now on we must work together, dear colleagues and dear Government, working together: to open this table and finally to make a delegated law that will allow us no more excuses. We have found economic resources; now we are moving on in this direction. I thank the Government and the Undersecretary of War; I think that today we have also written together, as a majority of Government and as senators of the Republic, a beautiful page. Sport also comes fully into the budget law. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Ferrari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u79	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u80	Mr President, the debate that has taken place in recent weeks, indeed in recent months, has had characteristics that are difficult to explain, I would say lunar and delirious, guided, with a great deal of unscrupulousness, in particular by some political forces - I must say not all - of the opposition. There has been talk of taxes and handcuffs, there has been talk of tax maneuvering and handcuffs. Now, I know that this is no longer the place of the sensible debate on words, but this too has become the place of demagogy and electoral rallies, of politics now transformed only into slogans, completely detached from the principle of truth, a sacrosanct principle and a value for transparency. We're getting used to everything now, even this. We would also like to remind Senator Centinario that we have not exhausted with this maneuver the mission of our Government; we have simply begun to remedy the damage that the League has accomplished in this year and a half. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And we want to remember that the 23 billion euro hole that you left behind is quite the same as the situation you left in our country the last time you ruled, that is in 2011. That's the truth. You make demagogy, you tell lies and lies, you shoot big [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then at the right time you run away and someone else has to make up for the incredible damage you have done to our country and our citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u81	Let's stay on the subject, Senator Ferrazzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u82	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). It is the subject of the budget, Mr President; that is exactly the political debate, which, thank God, is still in our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, out of 30 billion manoeuvres we have had to use 23 to remedy this serious damage. [[Comments of Senator Floris]] All promises of Salvini&Co. launched in the electoral campaign; then someone, while he was fleeing between one Papeete and the other, had to make up for it. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Enough with this Papeete. Aren't you a little repetitive? Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Shall we give another example? Tax measurement: 23: billion cut, plus 3 billion cut in the tax wedge. Let's face it, Mr President, it's more money in the workers' pockets: this is the EUR 3 billion cut in the tax wedge, this is the data! Then I was talking about lunar and delusional communication, because about 5% of the maneuver was discussed for two months, trying - we understand this - to create a smokescreen around the fact of reality, that is the damage that we are evidently avoiding and thanks to God is recognized on a planetary level by the markets, citizens and national institutions friends and less friends. Mr President, on the subject, of course, I would like to focus on the environmental issue, because the green new deal, as we have said, is fundamental and we have already started to build it. I would like to mention the fund for the relaunch of investment in central government, with a budget of €22.3 billion between 2020 and 2034 for green projects, circular economy, decarbonisation, emission reduction, energy saving, environmental sustainability and in general for sustainable innovation. Other than maneuvering taxes and handcuffs! Let us talk about content, at least in this House! Our governments, those that little chatter and so much do, already in 2017 had equipped the fund linked to the financing for the investments and for the infrastructural development of 47 billion euros for the fifteen years following and the year after they have increased it of 36 billion; the fund is dedicated to the transport, to the research, to the defence of the ground, to the urban regeneration. How can we not talk about energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development? There is also, for example, all the great work done for the Municipalities, not only from the point of view of the contributions and support of fiscal policies, but of the real aid to the Municipalities, recognized thanks to God in a cross-cutting way. In this case, too, we have remedyed the damage caused by a law of stability that had been wanted by the government of center-right with an incredible cut operated to the municipalities from 2007-2008 onwards. With the maneuver under discussion, great contributions are being made: I am thinking of EUR 500 million for energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development for municipalities and, again for territorial authorities, of EUR 8.8 billion for the period 2020-2034 for the safety of buildings and the territory. How can we not mention the EUR 9.1 billion for urban regeneration and in particular for the outskirts? You see, there are those in the outskirts who go to the meetings and there are those in the outskirts who go to bring the projects, to finance and open the yards, this is the big difference. And how can we not talk about the fund for the sustainable and infrastructural development of the municipalities? I am referring to EUR 400 million per year from 2025 to 2034, including hydrogeological failure and seismic risk prevention. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the contribution for regional funding, which is quite similar to that of the municipalities, which can of course be transferred to the territorial level, and then the large green new deal package: EUR 470 million in 2020, EUR 930 million 2021, EUR 1,420 million in 2022 and EUR 1,420 million in 2023. It is established the possibility by the MEF to predict green bonds also in our country; the green mobility project is introduced also for public administrations, which from January will be able to buy or rent electric vehicles and hybrids. I would also like to mention by title the energy efficiency bonus (which we wanted for years and maintained), the bonus for restructuring, the bonus facades up to 90%, the tax credit for environmental investments, the measure called New Sabatini, etc. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude with a word about my city, Venice. After so many words and chatter we have finally permanently refinanced the special law with EUR 60 million, as the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, said, which we have allocated to this extraordinary city. I have seen that some of the League today in the media have said that they have asked for a billion euros: good, very good; maybe next time, when you are still in opposition, ask for two; but, in case you return to the government, put at least ten million, since in the last year and a half, when you had to rule, you have zero. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u83	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u84	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow survivors, what I think is important to say at the moment is that we must not worry too much because our poor colleagues in the House will have no chance of intervening on the budget law, because they will give us back the favor and send us the tax decree-law on which we will not even be able to say half a word: this is one of the biggest mockeries of the organisation of parliamentary work of this last part of the year. Having said that, I would like to analyse two passages which seem to me to be particularly significant in this budget law and which refer specifically to two things that are not there. The first concerns palliative care, with an amendment I asked for, referring to what President Conte had said in this Chamber, sitting in that chair, just the day the Conte-a Government was installed. It was the days, you will all remember, when the decision of the Constitutional Court had just come out and, with a kind of counterweight to this green traffic light, for which assisted suicide was cleared, it was said to oppose, as a strong element of prevention, the possibility for patients to resort to palliative care to an adequate extent, through hospice and home care, wherever needed. President Conte had given his word, and then nothing was seen; I tabled an amendment and I insisted, like all of us, that we do our day-to-day task to know what had happened and every time the answer was that there was no money, which could also be plausible. It cannot be denied, however, that these funds have instead been found for many other things that do not concern that group of people that we say go through the last mile of life and that only asks for an accompaniment. For them, despite the President's word, nothing. Conversely, funds have been found, for example, to change the percentage of active substance - the famous tetrahydrocannabinol - in the context of cannabis. This escamotage has been sought to circumvent the rule that looks with a view to the liberalisation of cannabis, while trying to intervene by increasing the amount of active substance present. We are therefore able to intervene really with double standards compared to good health, giving priority to what we could say to have a playful aspect - if you can call it that - and that I like to relate to another fact. President Mattarella, a few days ago, thundered with a loud voice, rightly, against tax evasion, saying - and some colleagues have also repeated it - that if we all paid taxes, of course we would all be better and probably pay less taxes. Well, gentlemen, we will have to try to explain why the producers of heated tobacco, which has not at all achieved the effect for which it was proposed (it seemed that it had to reduce the number of smokers and the risks associated with it, things that we know to be two lies today), pay the taxes to 25%. It is not clear whether this regalia to tobacco producers is totally contrary to the fact that we are told that there are no funds for palliative care. There is, however, another passage, and I address the President with great respect, because I am talking about rare diseases and I know how sensitive he is to the subject: we have not managed to find funds for this. Dear colleagues, rare patients, in many cases, have no drugs. It's the famous orphan drug problem. Sometimes you have the luck that, for a rare disease, you find a drug and, generally, when this happens it is because the company that produces it is almost always a company made up of university researchers, who put on an ATI, a temporary business association to produce that drug. Well, the amount of taxes you put on that drug makes it difficult for manufacturers to produce that drug, so very often we are with patients who are without the unique, specific drug they might need. Gentlemen, we haven't found any money for rare drugs: if you type in rare drugs, you don't find anything, because we couldn't find anything for them. Is it a budget law that neglects the most fragile groups, which we call operationally what define the culture of waste and when nothing is found for these people, what else do we want to talk about in this law? But to what extent do we mean that we have taken care of disability, that we have taken care of non-self-sufficiency? Imagine someone less self-sufficient than a terminal patient? By the way, I would also like to point out that, before speaking in this House, I went to look for the file of amendments. I do not know what else is in the budget law. All I know is that there are things that I've taken care of and worried about. Tomorrow, I might find that there are many other things I don't like at all. For example, I think of the ballet that has been around gambling, so the article of the law, in some way, raises the number of machines and improves the situation for dealers, committing for nine years a series of measures that are to their advantage, then, there is the amendment that reduces, so some colleague can say that he is leading the battle against gambling. Too bad the arranged Democratic Party-Movement 5 Stars, with perhaps a part of LEU, actually made a nice gift to gaming dealers. Gentlemen, this is the hypocrisy of the system. Why are we talking about taxes? I'm talking about taxes that I wish they'd paid extra for those famous producers of heated tobacco. I'm not talking about a discount, but I'm saying that on the other side of the scale I want to put the most fragile, which doesn't happen. I want, however, to conclude my speech with two positive notes. I had to look for them, like when looking for the pearl and wondering if there is anything good, something that really meets the needs. I want to quote these notes. One concerns funds that have been placed in the upper secondary school, concretely in the institutes that deal with art, such as the institutes of fine arts or the schools of music, where it was impossible, until yesterday, for people with disabilities, subjects that had the famous law 104, subjects that had difficulties (we are talking about boys) to access. There was a question, which I asked the Minister of Education and the Minister of Justice, because it seems to me that, in some way, human rights were at stake. This question, which, of course, did not have any answer, concerned precisely the case of three autistic subjects, who had passed all the tests of admission to the institute of fine arts but who had to clash with a hostile bureaucracy, which we, in some way, tried to mobilize. Well, I must say that, probably, that answer that I did not receive from the Minister is present in the budget law, in terms of aid and facilities for these children. On behalf of these guys, of course, I thank you. The other note, which seems to me to be of absolute justice and which was not there before, is that aid, always in the logic of the inclusion of people in schools, has been granted, goodness to them, even to equal schools. It is a good thing that in the legend accompanying the amendment it is recalled that peer schools are an integral part of the public school system, as decided at the time by a famous minister, who certainly was not Catholic, but was enlightened enough to understand that even peer schools played a role that made up the public school system. Fortunately, this time too, there is this aid: it seemed almost a great concession, a great amendment, while it should have been of strict justice. In conclusion, thank you for the autistic children, thank you for the disabled people whose parents want them to attend equal schools and I deeply sadden patients who need palliative care and really for all rare patients, who are once again the rarest of the rare ones. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Rufa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u85	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is a maneuver that we are very pleased with, a maneuver that looks to the future and for which, from our point of view, we have done as much as possible under the present conditions. This maneuver is characterised by some key points such as a massive tax reduction and sustainable growth with the green new deal. It also contains incentives for businesses; in the health sector we invest more than two billion; then there are funds for families and disabled people, measures for the South, such as the famous 34 quota we are referring to very much is to which we pay great attention. Then there are the funds for the municipalities that we have stabilized - 500 million euros for four years - and another impressive voice concerns urban regeneration, the contrast to housing hardship and other common funds that amount to 16.7 billion euros. I have listened to my colleagues, both in this House and in the Budget Committee until a few hours ago, and the opposition has defined this draft budget law as the tax law, contradicting the numbers. Then I would like to briefly report them, these numbers, to see if it's what they say or if it's what we say. The huge reduction in taxes that I have referred to concerns the sterilization of VAT, which is worth EUR 23.72 billion. Had there not been the intervention of this majority and this Government, every Italian family, on average, would have paid 500 euros more. Then there is the part about reducing the tax wedge, which means more money in the payrolls of workers, which is worth three billion euros. Still, there are other measures such as the re-introduction of ACE, a tax incentive for capital increases. As for the dry coupon, I heard that we would increase it: I must remind my opposition colleagues that the 10% dry coupon for the agreed rent tax was due on 31 December 2019, so if we had not found the funds, if we had not refinanced it, it would have risen to 15% from next year. But it is not, we have kept it - refinanceing it as I said - at 10%. Plus, we abolished the superticket and put 185 million in it. The total of all these items amounts to EUR 26,784 billion. [[Comments of Senator Rufa]] Colleagues in opposition talk instead of an increase in taxes and refer in a particular way to plastic tax, to the tax on corporate cars - that is no longer there, I want to warn them: there is no in this bill of budget, so I invite them to look better - to read better - and to the sugar tax, plus other taxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you had a calculator, you would find that all these taxes amounted to 4.16 billion euros, so with a little intellectual honesty and a simple calculator - and with minimal notions of arithmetic - if you did this subtraction you would understand that the positive balance, i.e. the reduction of taxes for 2020, is 22.6 billion euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have heard, again from my opposition colleagues, that this is a massive, colossal reduction in taxes, that the sterilization of VAT clauses was practically a matter of duty, that was known and that therefore it was in things. I want to remember that this is not the case and I just want to make some historical references. The last time there was an impressive and colossal increase in taxes was in 2011 - with the Berlusconi Government - with measures, which I am going to quote, voted by the then PdL and the League, which now tore their clothes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Decree-Law 13 August 2011, n. 138 provided for an increase in VAT from 20 to 21 percent, it was worth 4.5 billion euros and we pay it from 2011; the Decree-Law 6 July 2011, n. 98 increased VAT from 21 to 22 percent, starting from 2013, and this costs 4.2 billion euros that we pay from 2013; the Decree-Law 6 December 2011, n. 201, the one that increased the Imu (remember when there was an impressive increase of the Imu from today to tomorrow?) It was worth EUR 24 billion. These gentlemen have managed to raise taxes by EUR 32 billion in just one year and now they are allowed to morale us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have diminished them so much, they have increased them. God forbid they go back to the government! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u87	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to remind the senator that he preceded me that he may forget last year when the tomes were launched to the government. Probably, before pointing to this part of the hemicycle, you should think about what PD did last year. Anyway, the mountain finally gave birth to the mouse. Despite Europe's flexibility of 2.2 on net debt, this move comes very late, so much so that it will be fired with yet another confidence: but nothing new, since it has now become a practice. Nothing unexpected, considering that the four lefts write by day and fight at night, and then in the glimpses of time find themselves in the various talk shows to proclaim themselves the saviors of the country. Yes, because we insist that this is an expansive maneuver - and here I address my colleague in Movimento 5 Stars - aimed at growth, but analyzing it in the various passages and combining it with the tax decree, we realize that what actually grows is the tax pressure, the bureaucracy increases and - why not? - Since it's Christmas, you couldn't miss a nice lottery. Many options on the table, starting from September, but then denied and disguised as fake news, perhaps because at some point the four leftists tried to listen to the discontent of the country, along with the alarm launched by Forza Italia several times from these benches, or also because you noticed that the higher taxes would cause a loss of votes in key regions such as Emilia Romagna. And here, magically, taxes are mostly postponed, but the matrix, albeit modified, has remained. I am referring to the possibility of increasing VAT from 10% to 23% for hotels and restaurants that would not have used electronic payments. Fortunately the categories have risen and the shot has been calibrated, thinking first of sanctioning with 30 euros of fine plus 4% of the value of the transaction, and then resolve, so to speak, removing the sanction, most probably because you have not managed to bargain with the banks the commission and therefore now, to compensate for this lack, you expect a tax credit of 30% on the commission. It is foreseen in the tax decree the increase of the tourist tax up to 10 euros, which in fact will make Italian tourism not competitive with foreign countries, affecting the budget of our guests who will have less resources to spend in bars, restaurants and shops. As with the cash limit, which will not have the desired effect, it will in fact ensure that the money is spent abroad. But let's talk about the budget law more about the substance. It is indeed desirable to find solutions to limit the use of plastics, especially to recycle as much as possible to combat pollution. We all agree on this. But consideration must be given to the need to ensure a balance between the economy and the environment. Thinking about changing people's culture overnight is unthinkable. Before taxing, it is necessary to make an awareness campaign and give companies in the sector the time to innovate and create alternatives. We need to find a balance between the different regulations, and I am referring to the HCCP, which contradicts the abolition of plastics if we want to, because the legislation is very strict for food safety and hygiene. Entire sectors will find themselves in difficulty without having the time or alternatives to comply with the laws, not to mention the jobs that will be called into question. Instead of taxing, would it not have been better to give subsidies to companies to try to innovate on recyclable material? Also the sugar tax designed to make cash, but donated for well-being and good food education, is a useless tax if we start from a principle of food education. The consumption of a particular product compared to another is due to a wrong food culture. Often, especially we mothers, for lack of time we choose a snack for our children, when instead we could opt for a fruit. But it will not be by taxing that we change this way of doing it. In doing so, we are only going to penalise producers and increase family spending. But maybe it was just the goal you set for yourself: to cash in. Perhaps it was better to think of those Sicilian orange crates that will remain unsold. You didn't think that this would encourage the purchase of foreign products, where production costs are lower. But then we get pretty talking about Made in Italy. It seems that in any way one wants to block the growth of this country by crippling companies, which in fact generate work, therefore wealth: we are talking about the real economy. But does this government, which has confirmed citizenship income in this budget law, want to create more work for navigators by creating more unemployment? If businesses close, there will be very little work, and therefore at risk they could also become the same navigators. But at work, I think there's an unclear idea. The decree-law dignity has in fact generated a surcharge of about 210 million euros and provides for for every renewal of fixed-term contract that there is an increase of 0.5 percent, that goes to add to the addition of 1.4%, that the companies already pay in case of use of temporary workers. The 0.5 percent aggrave is summing up, so each renewal proceeds with 1.4 percent plus 0.5 percent on the first renewal, and then increases by 0.5 percent on each renewal. This is penalising for the tourist resorts. It was better to use the resources of citizenship income to further lower the tax wedge; EUR 3 billion is insufficient; it is lowered only for workers and not for businesses, then considering that the money that will remain in the pocket of workers will spend them on these new taxes. Speaking of tourist locations, I can think of mountains, and if we have a postcard view of the mountain at this time of the year, instead we should observe the phenomenon of depopulation that is taking place. If we do not react immediately by setting up special economic zones (ZES), we risk seeing territories that are no longer cured. So, in this budget law, resources were to be increased for areas with special economies for the mountainous regions, and that is what we have tried to do by proposing some of our amendments. In addition, it was decided to remove the dry coupon on the rentals of shops. This generates a contrary action, in the absence of a dry coupon. In fact, the owner is subject to the Irpef, to the regional and municipal addition, in addition to the tax of the register, for a total load that can exceed 48 percent. Thus the cost of rentals will be more and more expensive, contributing to the closure of those shops that, while struggling, still survived guaranteeing a service and the contrast to the degradation. However, the money for the celebrations is there: in the night an amendment was approved for the centenary of the Communist Party with the resources aimed at promoting cultural and celebratory initiatives related to this anniversary. I am based on this approval, if we consider these cultural initiatives, they could increase, with possible resources, the chapter of linguistic minorities in Law No 482 of 1999 - I remember that this chapter is always limited, even if this time there are additional resources - provided for in Article 6 of our Constitution. But since hope is the last to die, we hope that the Communist Party will choose to allocate any resources to the earthquake victims, who for too long have celebrated very little. It is a good thing that we decided to equal the salaries of the firefighters, because it is not enough to just call them heroes in catastrophic events, and then thank them with a pat on the shoulder. There have been many amendments that we have tabled as the Forza Italia Group and this is to try to straighten out the boat. Very few have passed, although with tenacity we managed to get the better: one on all, the discount in ecobonus invoice, which restores the correct conditions of competition without penalising craftsmen and small businesses. We didn't expect a powerful maneuver like Ferrari, but we were hoping for more than just a scooter. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u89	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I would like to address some of the issues dealt with in this budget law concerning the Italian communities in the world. Despite the few financial resources available, our fellow countrymen abroad can be satisfied with the real attention that this Government has wanted to give and that is proven by the facts. There is a change of direction over the past year. This is a strong signal of the interest of the Democratic Party and the Government for the diffusion of language and culture in the world and for the respect of representative bodies - Comites and General Council of Italians abroad (CGIE) - of certain value for our communities and for parliamentary representation. I would like to stress that the sums allocated for the benefit of our communities abroad represent a great investment for our country. In fact, the communities of Italians in the world have been and continue to be a great resource for Italy, yesterday facilitating the entry of Italian companies into the markets in which they resided and today with their children and their grandchildren, who are an integral part of the society where they live and the decision-making centers of this society. They have maintained and continue to maintain a very strong bond with Italy and in a sense favour the entry of Italian companies into those markets. With the approval of the additional funds for Italian language and culture we will only increase interest in Italy abroad by enhancing and promoting the Italy system outside national borders and all this for the benefit of Italian made in Italy and export. The new logic is underlined by the approval of new resources for the representation of Italians abroad, Comites and General Council of Italians abroad. These institutional bodies are composed of people who voluntarily engage in the promotion activities of Italy in the world and who have thus had a fair recognition and support to continue working in that direction. They have all been achieved thanks to the teamwork carried out by the rapporteur in the Commission, the Democratic Party, the other majority groups and the Government. Some issues, however, have remained outstanding. These include the reinstatement of the Imu tax for our pensioners abroad. It is undoubtedly a step backwards on a rule intended and implemented by the Governments of the Democratic Party. On this there is my personal commitment and commitment of the Democratic Party so that the Government can find a solution to the problems that caused this decision. I am convinced that we must go further. The exemption or, in any case, a reduction of the taxes on the house for the members of the AIRE represents an economic incentive that favors flows of return tourism and investments of our compatriots abroad, especially in parts of the country at risk of depopulation. This would have a significant positive impact on gross domestic product. In other words, as I say in general, lower tax revenues are certainly more than compensated for. Another issue that we need to seriously consider in the future is how to make arrangements with young researchers working abroad. They are doing a great job and achieving excellent results. The reasons that forced them to leave our country are structural and take time to be resolved. In the meantime, however, we have a duty to help them in their work and to take advantage of their knowledge. We must invest, valorizing their work and promoting networking programs to involve them and make them involved in projects of collaboration with Italian companies, research centres and universities. Mr President, I could continue for a long time, but time and place prevent us from doing so. I hope that we can all find an opportunity in the coming weeks to reflect on these issues in the same spirit as we have found the resources for the Italian communities in the world in the budget law. Meanwhile, and I conclude, I can say that in this budget law has been made a strategic choice of investment on Italians in the world, a choice that must continue to be cultivated in the coming years with the collaboration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with other Ministries, including that for cultural goods and activities, education, economic development and labour and social policies. Colleagues and colleagues, believe me: to benefit not only the communities of Italians in the world, but also and above all Italy and the future of our children. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now nearing the approval of a financial maneuver, today as never before, the result of an improbable understanding that comes from a majority that no longer exists or perhaps has never been. A maneuver, ladies and gentlemen, that brings everything together and the opposite of everything, but that overlooks some major political issues that the Government does not have the courage to address. One of these is the local authorities. For some years now, one of the most harmful and controversial battles that have united the parties of this majority is that of the cuts and the reduction of the costs of politics, with the illusory hope that this demagogic idea could be the solution of all evils. In recent years it has been decided, with a clumsy and senseless law, to eliminate provincial administrations, sending into chaos thousands of administrators, especially small municipalities, who have seen themselves totally deprived of their primary, if not unique, interlocutor. This financial maneuver, fellow senators, does not deviate at all from those who continue to think that a mayor, councilman or city councilman is an unnecessary cost of politics and not an essential element for the functioning of the country. We therefore welcome the proposal to increase the allowance of the mayors of the municipalities under 3,000 inhabitants: a measure that will cost the community 10 million euros, but that will give ample breath so that all those heroic administrators of small municipalities will be able to devote more attention to their own small town halls, which are nothing more than one of the assets of our history. If we think, however, that the move we are going to vote on involves the further extension of citizenship income, which will cost taxpayers tens of billions of euros, I do not dare to imagine what could have been done if part of those funds had been allocated to municipalities and local administrations. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that municipal administrations, especially small ones, play a social and fundamental role, a role that this Parliament has forgotten in recent years. Unfortunately with your demagogy and your attachment to the palace, you have forgotten to reward and encourage those who work on the territory for the good of the community, instead rewarding those who, with the income of citizenship, allow you to think about your good. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u93	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u94	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, those who produce GDP and turn the economy, also giving jobs, are a valuable asset for the State, which as a state should, starting from the budget law, reward and encourage all those companies and industries that spend on it. In this budget law, finally arrived in the Chamber after several weeks of dances between amendments and sub-amendments, there was exactly the opposite of what should have happened: there was a real burst of taxation, which seems to have been designed to punish, rather than reward, all those workers and those companies that daily put their commitment and their investments to promote the economy of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This was the impression of the 119 articles contained in the draft budget law for 2020, confirmed by the 4,550 amendments tabled to it, of which more than 1,700 by the majority themselves. And that already required a reflection on the part of the government. It is a government that, embracing the policy of green economy and environmental sustainability, has thought of going to hit the productions that use plastic, imposing that plastic tax that has managed to bring to Piazza Montecitorio the industrialists of a section that, only in Emilia-Romagna, my Region, has 36,000 jobs (20,000 employees in packaging and 16,000 in plastic transformation companies) and generates more than 8 billion euros of turnover. Emilia-Romagna is the third after Lombardy and Veneto in the Lover area, which alone is worth almost 60% of the national plastic processing industry. When we talk about plastic transformation, we need to think not only about plastic bottles, but also about all those items that we use in our everyday life, such as packaging, window frames and stationery. Let us think - for example - of biomedical devices in order to realize how much such a tax will increase the costs, which will inevitably fall on families and on the whole community. In fact, having postponed the start of such taxation to April, with some reduction and excluding certain categories of products, it did not solve the problem, but only postponed it. So, I honestly do not know how one can think of solving our environmental problems by applying a tax which, in fact, is a great mockery. If this government does not repent, it will serve only to make cash, causing damage to the industry and putting at risk many jobs and, therefore, in difficulties many families - as if those of Ilva were not enough - also sinking a sector of excellence that, already for some time, has undertaken a path towards more sustainable solutions, so much so that currently 15% of the plastic used comes from circular economy. And to do this, entrepreneurs in this sector have put effort and money into it. How do you reward them? By taxing them. A big round of applause! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to point out that companies already pay an environmental contribution to the Conai for the collection and recycling of plastic packaging, amounting to EUR 450 million per year, 350 of which are paid to the municipalities to ensure separate collection. The introduction of a plastic tax therefore amounts to a kind of double taxation and will favour foreign producers who, with a tax like this, should not be compared. The virtuous companies expected rather choices of the Government aimed to support and accelerate the environmental commitment and the sustainability paths that cannot be cleared by charging taxes, but by starting agreed plans and encouraging the development of new recycling chains. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In addition to the taxes that this maneuver contains and of which I have made just one example, we must be careful of those novelties that seem to have been introduced for laudable purposes, but that actually hide the political will to invade areas from which politics should absolutely stay out. In this case, I am talking about the National Research Agency, hidden among the folds of growth measures. This Agency, submitted to the Presidency of the Council as well as to the MIUR, should aim to strengthen research - but be careful - with a director chosen by the President of the Council and a steering committee composed of 8 members, of which 5 are chosen by the Ministers of the MIUR, Mise, the Ministry of Health and that for technological innovation and digitisation. Finally, the members of the Board of Auditors would also be appointed by decree of the Minister of MIUR. In short, it is an agency on which researchers also have many doubts, both because the lines indicated in the budget law for the identification of the research to be financed by the Agency itself lead to direct the available resources only on some areas of the research, and because the management of the Agency would be entrusted to positions of political appointment. This means that politics would enter or enter into the control of universities and research bodies, in contempt of Article 33 of our Constitution, which wants art and science to be free and free of their teaching. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if instead of creating a new body that will cost 25 million in 2020, 200 million in 2021 and 300 in 2022, it was not more appropriate to strengthen the already proven National Research Council (CNR), or rather to allocate these resources to scholarships for students, doctoral grants and medical specialization, to the recruitment of fixed-term researchers, to career progressions of permanent researchers and associated university professors, to the stabilisations and career progressions of researchers of research institutions. I don't tell you these things: these alternatives are asked by the researchers themselves. The other day I received a signed letter from over 5,000 researchers. Again, President, allow me to make a quick reference to the Forces of Order. It is a pleasure to read on the pages of the daily newspapers of our cities that the number of firefighters, carabinieri and state police officers has increased. But let us all remember that if in our cities today we have more Forces of Order, we owe it only and exclusively to Matthew Salvini [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] who, as Minister of the Interior, has flown the rankings and has budgeted resources for the recruitment of about 8,000 men in uniform in the 2019 budget. What has been done in this budget for the Forces of Order? Gentlemen of the Government, to avoid taking merits that are not due, let us reflect on these aspects. In conclusion, Mr President, this was supposed to be a budget law under the green economy, but amendments are being made which propose the reclamation of contaminated sites. This was also to be a budget law in favour of disadvantaged areas, such as mountain areas, whose desertification causes so much damage to the territories. The demands to establish special economic zones (ZES) in our Apennines have been made, while there would have been a need to give a strong signal to the whole mountain. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This was to be a budget law with an eye to research and education, and instead we are only going to create yet another wheelchair with political representation that research will bear only the name. In a word, this had to be an expansive budget; instead we will all be pulling the belt, seeing other companies flee abroad, or even shutting down. Someone from the Conte-a government said a few months ago that they had done more than the previous month. Government in fourteen months: I can only confirm that it is true: it has done more damage to this Government in a few months than the Governments of previous legislatures. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u95	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u96	Mr President, I see that there are more women in this House this evening; we obviously have a stronger temper. And yet, my voice has gone away, and I apologize. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I would like to point out that this is harmful, but not useful for the Mezzogiorno. A senator, a few days ago, listed the names of many Southern senators. I say to you that more than a third of senators from the Mezzogiorno are present in the Senate; yet, little in this maneuver is there of that part of Italy. Some people tell us that almost 5 of the more than 7 billion euros planned for 2020 will come, but these resources are absorbed by more than 70% of citizenship income; few hundreds of euros paid through monthly recharges on yellow paper. The proclamation that you made a few years ago and that I hoped could come true, that is, we will eliminate poverty, unfortunately it has not been implemented. Yet, in 2019 more than 100,000 young people under the age of 35 and 2 million in the last 20 years left the Mezzogiorno. This escape does not stop and does not subside with subsidies or other half-breeds. Grants are the most harmful that can be offered to people and how much more diseducational can be given to young people. I don't mean it with controversy. I touched that reality - I come from the South - and I know what that means. I have always lived in social life, so I can assure you that the situation is getting worse. State aid must serve families; above all, it must serve that head of the family who, in the course of his life, has been without employment and who, by the age of age, can no longer enter the world of work: that needs help and there you should have concentrated all your efforts. Here, on the other hand, the fund for general calls, for the third sector for the South and for disadvantaged families, has been cut by EUR 10 million. We must respond with facts and numbers: for example, with the tax credit on investments in the Mezzogiorno, with the tax credit for research and with the strengthening of the SES, for which, however, there is no appreciable investment. It should also be pointed out that the measures of Rest in the South, reprogrammed by the draft budget law under consideration, are unfortunately financed from the Development and Cohesion Fund, i.e. money that would have been allocated to the southern regions anyway. Out of a total of 1.2 billion of this measure, only EUR 142 million was allocated, although it was found that this programme was able to produce more jobs than it generated its citizenship income. Three million jobs are missing in the South. The refinancing of incentives for employment growth in the South does not see a strategic work plan, because there are too many people who remain out of the subsidy: at least three out of four receive nothing and it would be impossible to please everyone. We know that many people receive just over 500 euros a month and the goal was not to depopulate our country. But, gentlemen, I ask myself and ask you: how can a young man or a family stay in the South with 500 euros? It's not enough. If measures such as those that support youth entrepreneurship, such as "Stay in the South" or other similar, were extended to other sectors, such as agriculture and fisheries, it would result in more investment that would guarantee adequate incomes. Only in this way can we retain our young people, with dignity, in the territories of origin. I have spoken several times in this House about the tragedy of the fishermen of Puglia, to whom the European rules on fishing are cutting the future and hope. I have spoken in this House of the farmers affected by the scourge of xylella, in one of the most beautiful and productive olive-growing areas in Italy. To these workers, to the entrepreneurs who courageously carry on their activities, in places where even the link with the rest of Italy is denied by insufficient road infrastructure and crumbling railways, we need to restore confidence and hope. We must demonstrate, with precise development policies, that they can plan the future in their lands, without having to expatriate abroad or in the North, as was done in the 1960s. But then there was the economic boom; today, gentlemen, the economic boom is not there, except perhaps in our imagination. Our territory has a natural industrial vocation, but the southern enterprises are penalized by the lack of infrastructure. The transport is penalized: the high speed stops in Salerno, the roads are disrupted, not to mention the bridges. And what about the railway network? An accident that cost the lives of 23 people, on July 12, 2016, paralyzed a route Bari Nord, important, important for our territory, forcing commuters, workers and young people every day to exhausting rhythms because of the temporary means (bus), which replaced the trains in the route under seizure. The post-tragedy of the Morandi Bridge - forgive me if I make this example - in Genoa, if compared with the post tragedy of the railway disaster of the Bari Nord route, highlights substantial differences in times and modalities. I add, opening and closing a parenthesis: health care in the South dies first. One of the causes of the tragic situation is the very low level of health care. I fully agree with what has been said by many mayors in my own territory: this budget law deserves a deepening of the rules that weigh on the budgets of our Municipalities, a fundamental part of our Republic. The government and ANCI have taken a few steps forward, but much more needs to be done. After years of dwindling municipal finance, it is time to breathe in; improving public services increases social cohesion and creates a positive condition for development. Meanwhile, it seems absurd not to align the deadline for the approval of municipal budgets to 30 April, i.e. at the same end of the approval of the new Tari. Moreover, it is necessary to streamline the cumbersome procedure for the approval of the new Tari; to insert a further obstacle to the autonomy of the Municipalities with the approval by ARERA of the municipal rates, while talking about widening the regional autonomy, is a counter-sensory and a further act of penalization against the Municipalities. I ask that ARERA be transformed into a kind of consultant of the municipalities in this matter, and not into yet another decision-making body at the head of the autonomy of the municipalities. Therefore, a shift for all municipalities to 2021 of the validation procedure by ARERA is required to have time to improve it and not suddenly decrease this further limitation of municipal autonomy. Finally - but only for the economy of time - the Government undertakes to implement with special decrees measures to transfer adequate sums to the municipalities for interventions on the safety of the community and school infrastructure. Well, I hear there's been further cuts. It is also urgent to leave to the municipal autonomy the management of the recruitment of the staff, favoring the agreement between municipalities in the matter of hiring through a bonus in the matter of recruitment, in order to stem the depopulation of the offices, together with the full autonomy of the municipalities in the formulation of the funds for the employees and the managers, fixed by law. If today's debate is aimed at the autonomy of the regions, we absolutely cannot trample on the much more important autonomy of the municipalities, which are the fundamental pillars of public services to citizens. I shall conclude, Mr President. A well-respected Mezzogiorno needs to invest in infrastructure, health and all those driving sectors that remain unexpressed strengths. The differences tell us how the gap is increasing and the forecasts tell us that it will increase even more. It is therefore necessary to restart that fabric of southern enterprises that has resisted the crisis and that is ready to invest again, adding new resources destined to the young people of the South, who do not want to stand still, but want to invent, want to do, want to create. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u98	Mr President, following the recent global climate emergency statement by 11,000 scientists (later taken up by the European Parliament), an article appeared on 27 November on Nature, the world's largest scientific journal, entitled: No return points on the climate - too risky to bet on and from the subtitle: The growing threat of sudden and irreversible climate change must force political and economic action on emissions. The paper notes that nine tipping points have already been exceeded: loss of glaciers, permafrosts, rain and boreal forests, coral reefs. Also in the magazine "Nature", two days ago a research team, part of which is the National Institute of geophysics and volcanology, showed a rate of melting of Greenland glaciers seven times higher than in the 1990s. We're forging another planet. Liveable? As UN Secretary-General Guterres pointed out at the COP25 conference, climate change needs to be chosen from the hope of a better world and the surrender to their devastating consequences. Do we really want to move on to history as the generation that acted like the ostrich while the world was burning? Moving from global to local, the situation is dramatic. The climate risk index at the COP25 conference showed that in the last twenty years Italy has had 20,000 deaths and 33 billion dollars of damage for extreme weather events; they are merciless data that come down on a geologically fragile territory, with 91 percent of Italian municipalities at hydrogeological risk. It is lapalissian that it is urgent, on the one hand, to adapt to climate change and, on the other, to counter it. This draft budget law, in Articles 7 and 8, intervenes in this respect with the best investment: prevention. More than 50 billion are allocated to local authorities until 2034 - therefore there is a logic of extraordinary continuity - for contributions for public works for energy efficiency, sustainable territorial development and security of buildings and territory; investments for urban regeneration and infrastructure development; safety and maintenance of schools, kindergartens (action is taken with more than 2 billion), public buildings and road networks. Article 11 introduces measures for a new Italian green deal, an investment plan from 4.2 billion from 2020 to 2023 to reduce emissions of climate-friendly gases, incentive for projects to decarbonise the economy, circular economy and urban regeneration, sustainable tourism, mitigation of the risk of the territory. For the mitigation of geological risks I would like to point out the refinancing of the geological map of Italy, seriously interrupted for twenty years, six legislatures, 13 governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you know what paper is missing? The sheet 229 is missing, Savona, where a landslide fell and broke a viaduct on the A6 motorway, touching a tragedy by chance. The geological map is not a cure, but an indispensable instrument of diagnosis that offers us a cognitive picture of the geological characteristics of the territory for interventions and planned criteria and that we have the duty to carry out, even in honor of the late Senator Franco Ortolani [[Applause.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is time for politics to play its part. Young people scream at us with anger, stop talking. We can't stay deaf anymore. Enough of our selfishness, short visions, inertias and inability. I am proud to pass a budget law that has a vision of safeguarding the territory and human life, which has a perspective for the future, which has a heart, the one that beats for young people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u99	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u100	Mr President, we have a very positive view of this budget law, because - in our opinion - it has allowed those who lead our country to say that we have put our economy back on track; we have sheltered the derailment caused by the previous government and we have avoided dangers which, in my opinion, were very much looming over our economy. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Who was President of the Council? Mr Parrini (PD). I am referring in particular to the safeguard clauses concerning VAT, which, with the risk of increasing by 23 billion, would have killed an Italian economy which has been stalled for a long time. We have found the resources to increase the salaries of many millions of Italian employees with an intervention on the tax wedge that I believe is one of the most qualifying traits of this budget law. We have found resources for two other very important actions: the first concerns interventions in favour of families with a certain ISEE income threshold and can enroll their children in kindergarten with a contribution from the State which will in many cases eliminate the cost of the frequency of early childhood education, which we all know is strategic and decisive not only on the level of education, but also on the - wider - educational and cultural level. And then, in order not to make a list too long, I quote investment interventions. There is an important change in support for private investment, giving full strength to the Industry 4.0 package, and a breakthrough in public investment, with a boost that has been the most important in this area for a long time, which will lead us to carry out, above all, interventions aimed at strengthening the environmental character of our public spending, with 55 billion over the next fifteen years. I think that all this has been done without any confrontation with the European Union and with those who hold the bonds of our debt, but on the contrary, being able to put to the budget a substantial decrease in expenditure on interest payments on public debt, as Senator Stefano very well recalled in his report. This substantial fall would not be - on the contrary, there would be an increase - if we returned to a policy with a different approach than we have been given, or rather the opposite, like that which Senator Salvini was well represented yesterday in his speech, with certain words of order, with certain tones, with the examples made and with that way of doing: with that idea of relationship with Europe and the euro, in a very short time we would have to budget 15 billion of interest expenditure not less, but more (here is the real Salvini tax that we have talked about several times). Beyond these general considerations, however, I would like to stress two interventions that have concerned a very important sector for us, that of the Fire Department: a fundamental body of the State, which performs an essential service for our citizens and which in recent years had been made many promises, very few of which have been kept. Without roboating proclamations, we have managed to move from words to deeds and two deserve a quote. The first is the adoption of an amendment leading to an allocation of additional resources for Fire Departments of 65 million in 2020, 125 in 2021 and 165 in 2022. The second is an appropriation that allows to make, from 2020 to 2025, 500 additional hirings in the Firefighters' Corps. They are not answers that exhaust the needs repeatedly made present by this Body of the State: there is the issue of the INAIL, which we know well, and there are others that we promise to face as soon as possible, but we definitely give a concrete, serious, feasible and tangible answer. We do not wear shirts or uniforms: we express our closeness unlike how they think they have to express it to the lovers of the scenery. But even without wearing shirts and uniforms, we know how to give concrete signals. This is an example of this and is one of the signs of the budget law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u101	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like the many senators present in this House to be framed, especially by the majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a pleasure to express our ideas, our intentions, what has not been done and which we have expressed in the amendments. I'll talk to you, though, especially about things that don't add up. A budget maneuver should be the card of a government, because it touches the pockets of all Italians, in addition to being, surely, a compass of the objective to which it is indicated, to the whole country, must go a government action. Here, on the other hand, not only do we sail on sight, but there is even a risk of sinking all together: we tell you very clearly. What you want us to digest today is a maneuver that is the result of agreements, political agreements, to save goats and cabbages and, perhaps, to save the chairs of all those who do not have the courage to go in front of the Italian voters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Perhaps this non-real majority, a little more virtual than the democratic reality of the country, did not realize that we are going in the opposite direction to the other countries of the European Union. We are the only country that has two problems together: it has zero growth and a public debt that is the highest, after Greece, at European level, equal to 136 percent. Industrial production shows a decline of 2.4 percent, from news of the last days in the newspapers. The picture photographed by Istat is very bleak. And a new slowdown is foreseen for the future. Unfortunately, alongside this series of measures, which have not been taken, to counter this industrial decline, we have a wave of bad weather that has hit our country and has complicated even more the situation of many Italian regions, with serious repercussions on commercial activities, businesses, families, but above all on infrastructure. The resources allocated by the Government to deal with this emergency are absolutely insufficient. And I say this because I come from a region, Piedmont, which has been heavily hit by the last flood. In the face of damage, at least five times higher, 19 million euros were allocated with the emergency and then, with a series of promises made by the Minister of Infrastructure, who came to visit the places, resources that would then be recovered in addition. This land, however, has already paid heavily. I come from the province of Cuneo, for which the 1994 flood still lacks the funds to be given to companies, which must recover a number of resources allocated at the time, which were not enough. We proposed an amendment to the budget law. It was not declared inadmissible, it was admissible. Then, of course, the amendment was not taken forward and there is no budget law, because it has been deleted. This is very very serious for our Province. To this is added another important fact: the serious lack of respect towards the North-West, towards Piedmont and Liguria, by the Government, but also by the majority. You have deleted from the calendar an information, already scheduled in the Chamber the previous week for this week, of which absolutely there has been no trace. We have also asked, through the media, for it to be restored in order to carry out the demands of our territory. But there is one aspect that I would like to touch on in this very short speech, namely the adoption of that amendment which calls into question the reduction of subsidies harmful to the environment, which is a very serious blow to primary production sectors such as agriculture and transport. The amendment you have proposed, rather than encouraging production activities, makes it increasingly weak. In fact, if we go to reduce those differences, small but important, existing on the excise duties of diesel oil, but also on those products that have facilitated VAT in the agricultural sector - especially that important value of recovering resources that allows these productions to be valued - we go against the made in Italy, also and especially for the reimbursement of incentives on transport. Therefore, I believe that we are never in a serious situation like today, determined by a majority that has not been able to propose to this House a budget law that could meet the needs of Italians. We are bitter for not having been able to contribute to the best. We have proposed many amendments that have not been accepted and I believe that, from now on, you will do the real thing with the Italians, not in this House but in the squares. The fact that it did not extend the regulation on the dry coupon on trade to 21% will also create a serious situation that will bring down a sector such as the small Italian trade. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is why we are deeply bitter. Mr President, let me finish by simply saying that we in the Lega Group have always put Italians first. Always the Italians first. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u103	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u104	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, spoken several times in our speeches - let us try to repeat this, but also explain why - about the radical change compared to last year's maneuver, but above all with regard to the failed maneuver, such as being sacrificed on a August Papeete... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, we have all noticed that speaking even in a moderate tone can annoy those who are intervening. So, respecting both of us, we let the senator intervene. Mr Rossomando (PD). As I said, the failed maneuver was sacrificed by one of the main shareholders of the Papeete in August... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Again? That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a historical memory and it is a path which, if you want to do so, I believe is legitimate. Mr Rossomando (PD). It's good to hear that word again... [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u105	You may not like it, but it is no reason for colleagues to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u106	Mr Rossomando (PD). It is pleasant to listen again to this term a little 'exotic, given the excercophilia of the force with which we confront each other. As I said: stop to logical pacts and propaganda that has a problem. The promises, in fact, may not be able to keep, but the problem is not only given by the unfulfilled promises, but also by the real perspective of the country. In fact, the budget law, once called stability, has this fundamental function. Now I definitely want to talk to those who listen to us, with the Italians, to make the difference clear. But above all, I would like to bring all of us, starting with those who speak to you, back to the seriousness of the confrontation between a different vision that is being confronted today in this House, namely a liberal - sovereignist - nationalist vision that must be inserted in a context that sees the defeat in the facts of liberalism, for the consequences it has had, and the defeat of sovereignist nationalism for the isolation from a Europe in which we basically say that we leave ourselves alone. But we are in the third millennium and no one can do alone, no one can be left alone. The problem is how we do not leave each other alone and what we are bound to. Coming to another issue, it has been said several times, and rightly so, that we have avoided the increase in VAT, and I too want to repeat it, but I would like to stress another aspect: what kind of tax is VAT? VAT is a tax that affects all Italians indiscriminately and equally, it is so to speak the counter-tax, which in some way, precisely because it is equal, does not take into account the fundamental question of inequalities, which we must combat. On this, however, there is an abysmal difference in setting the analysis of the reasons for the epochal economic crisis and the problem of understanding what guarantees growth. Then I wonder how growth is created. Do we wonder? Do you wonder? You responded with the flat tax, which did not give great results and of which you do not know the outcomes. You have answered with the question of the 100 quota, on which we have responsibly said that, out of respect for people, we do not go to destroy the life programs that people have already made and we will progressively see what changes can be made. The figure of this maneuver is therefore equity, work and growth. In the first place is work and for this we provide with a large investment in work, which technically is called a tax wedge, but it means 500 euros more in pay per year for the poorest workers. Here too there is a change of approach: to worry about how work is created and about the fact that poverty today also affects poor workers very much. The second question is how development and growth are created and therefore the issue of the environment. Here is another important change: environment not only as a necessity to safeguard the health of our children and of the planet, to safeguard the present and the future, but as an extraordinary opportunity for growth, development and industrial policy of the third millennium. In essence, when I speak of failed liberalism and failed sovereignist nationalism, I mean that without industrial policy, without planning intervention and public and private investment there is no exit. There are two recipes and two diametrically opposed analyses, but above all what you have not explained, because you also make a proposal of counter-maneuver, is what you would have cut to keep flat tax and free everyone, not to have relations with Europe. What would be the cost? Where did you go to cut? What investments would have been lacking? This means confronting the type of maneuvering and the kind of prospects that are given to the country. In conclusion, we make more investment in childhood, we expand the bonus for kindergartens, we increase the funds for the right to study for university students, we give new rights to victims of crime (this concerns the issue of safety), we protect from any form of compensation directed to orphans of feminicide, we abolish the health superticket, we foresee appropriations for health building, we foresee a 50 million budget for support to rented housing, 1,000 extra grants for medical specialists. Then we talked about the fire department and the prison police. In a joke: here too there is an alternative vision on safety and precariousness, even existential. These are not only answers in terms of welfare, they are answers to the precariousness of existence, which is one of the great fears of the third millennium. When you closed all the ports of the world, including the river ports, what was left to offer to counter this precariousness? When you raised all the pains in the world, is there a point beyond which the penalties can no longer be lifted and what support would be given to the victims of the crime? These are the prospects, certainly different and alternatives to yours, but they are real prospects for the citizens, they are a real hope and they are a great revival for the work and for the dignity of the person. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u107	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u108	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have been able to see that even with the Count II Government parliamentary work is always at the mercy of the decisions of the Government itself; decisions continually postponed because the four leftists do not agree. The draft budget law arrived at the Commission on 6 November. Since then it has been stranded, waiting for the square of the majority with usual "open and close" sessions, until the final acceleration of the works only at the last useful moment, in a single session of more than twenty-six hours. The opposition, with a sense of responsibility towards the country, followed the pace of the work to avoid the risk of temporary exercise. The point is that this serious situation, in addition to having a negative impact on the quality of parliamentary work, affects democracy and has a deleterious effect on the country. (21.10 p.m.) (Toffanin followed). Evidently, the majority ignores that there is no government if there is no programming. And to plan you need to have a clear and organic idea of the future that you want to build for Italy, a clear idea of where you want to get, in what times and in what ways. Instead, the only idea that the members of Count II share is to avoid going to the vote and to prevent the center right from going to the government. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Result: the government action is nouned in putting up patches to the disasters that the government itself has put in place, a continuous do and undo contradictory and without an obvious ratio. It took days, which have become months, to try to make you understand that taxes such as those on the plastics and soft drinks sectors would have impacted in a devastating way on the increase of the costs of the products, putting the companies on their knees and strongly at risk the corresponding jobs, in a sector that employs more than 50,000 workers. In addition to us, entrepreneurs, workers and trade associations have shouted it, that instead of dedicating themselves to their own activity to try to make a positive contribution to the GDP of our country - and God knows how much it needs - they have had to divert time and energy to explain to you why these taxes are harmful and to defend their future and that of the workers and their families. Nevertheless, you did not eliminate them, but after a ping-pong of variations and distinctions, you postponed them for fear of the results of the regional elections next year, starting with those in Emilia-Romagna: that's where we will then reckon! On the other hand, you do not have a job policy, a business policy, and unfortunately the results are seen from the increasing number of open business crisis tables: see the striking cases of Ilva, Alitalia, Whirpool, Tirrenia and the list is getting longer and longer. Minister Di Maio boasts that he sterilized the safeguard clauses with this maneuver. In fact, this government has only postponed the problem to the following years. But I would remind the Minister that having put dust under the carpet - and dust, 23 billion - does not mean having solved the problem. The problem must be addressed by relaunching the economy and labour; on the other hand, the situation will rush to a point of no return. All the more so now that the uncertainties linked to the international context put our exports at risk. It is therefore necessary to aim, on the one hand, for the recovery of domestic demand, with the aim of increasing the purchasing power of workers and households and, on the other hand, for the support of business activities, with deburring and detaxation. But what has been done in this budget law? Very little and without a far-sighted vision. There has been talk of a reduction in the tax wedge. Welcome, but the resources devoted to it are very limited: 3 billion in 2020, 5 billion since 2021 and what is worse is that the implementation of the standard is postponed to implementing measures without any time indication. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Unfortunately, we have already seen many of them in this parliamentary term of measures announced in cash, but then only remained on paper because they were not implemented. For the self-employed, on the other hand, there has been a retrofront to the last budget law: no enlargement of the audience for flat-rate schemes and, on the contrary, narrowing for the beneficiaries of the so-called flat tax. Be careful, however, because the fact of constantly changing the rules - said Senator Rossomando himself - prevents companies and families from being able to rely on certain elements to carry out any planning of their future both for investments and for expenses. This attitude of the last governments is certainly a very effective way to ballast the growth of a country. We come to women's work, one of the most vulnerable, with the young, of the Italian labour market. Only 56.2% of women participate in the labour market, with an employment rate not exceeding 50%. We are the taillight together with Greece compared to the rest of Europe and these percentages fall considerably in women with children. Unfortunately, the baby bonus, as proposed, is not enough to encourage birth and access to work and not enough help for the nest kindergartens because - if you haven't found out yet - there aren't enough kindergartens. In the first place, it is necessary, therefore, to build the kindergartens, but the appropriate fund of only 100 million euros is postponed to 2021 and then you will see. Similarly, the establishment of the universal allowance fund and household services will start from 2021. A lot of other measures will be regulated by additional regulatory measures without time-limit, so there is a risk of not taking advantage of the resources allocated, as I remember happened for caregivers. Having made the rule, it has not been completed and the result has been that the funds allocated in the previous two years have not been used. There are many announcements of measures given for completion, but in the end very few are concretely implemented. Special attention has been paid this year to pensioners for whom the unblocking of the indexation of pensions has been announced, as opposed to last year's. Too bad that then in the budget law this has been translated into very few euro cents per month, then even reduced. More than a raise, it is a charity and an insult to those who have worked a life. Nice increase in purchasing power. The Italians want to be put in a position to work. The income of citizenship, which again this year hits heavily on the budget with more than 7 billion, does not help in the integration into the world of work, but too often goes into the pockets of those who do not need it, those who work in black or, worse, delinque. How many other much more useful choices could be made. We at Forza Italia have made our proposals with so many amendments. It is necessary to invest in the territories in order to support the enterprises. In this sense our battle for the establishment of the special economic zone in the territories that have detected development difficulties, such as the areas of Marghera and Rovigo, has finally found an answer in this budget law. I thank the majority for having accepted our request, because the Italians only ask to leave them the opportunity to do, without something going sideways. (21.20) (Toffanin followed). Making rules without thinking about the consequences doesn't help, but complicates the system. You have seen this with the so-called invoice discount provided for in Article 10 of the Growth Decree: our amendment voted in the Commission has allowed a huge damage to small and medium-sized enterprises, even if a subsequent amendment by the majority has partially altered its content. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this time too, the vote of confidence will be able to protect you from shaky votes within you, but it will certainly not determine the solution of our country's problems and unfortunately it will not even put it on track. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do we remember what happened last year? In fact, there was no discussion of the budget law and the last two days we found ourselves with a complete change in that structure that had never happened before: the impossibility for Parliament, in the two Chambers, to be able to discuss the substance and vote on amendments. This year things have gone in a profoundly different way. There has been an important and significant discussion and the parliamentary groups have been able to make important changes to the basic text produced by the Government. We have started, as we all know, from the safeguard clauses to be sterilized to prevent the growth of VAT from 22 to 25.2%, for the ordinary part, and from 10 to 13% for the reduced part: EUR 23.1 billion. The budget law came from this: the search for EUR 23.1 billion to sterilize the safeguard clauses. A very complex and almost impossible operation appeared, but we were able not only to sterilize the safeguard clauses, but to implement a number of other measures. Parliament, the Budget Commission and the senators with their amending proposals have brought significant changes. The comparison between the forces of majority (which certainly there was, but was a healthy comparison and made to lead to improve the main characteristics of our maneuver) has led to significant results. We started with the sterilization of VAT and some taxes that had made a lot of public debate. We have come to vote on the mandate to the rapporteurs in the Commission with certain taxes that have been cancelled, starting with those on company cars and mobile phones. Taxes on plastic and sugar have been significantly reduced. Can we settle? For the conditions given and the time available certainly more it was not possible to do, but our political force, Italy Viva, will work during the legislature to make its own effective and concrete contribution, as we have done these days, in order to be able to eliminate the tax pressure further. A tax pressure - let me tell you - that compared to the data contained in the Update Note to the DEF, which saw an increase of 0.1 percentage points in 2020, thanks to the reduction and cancellation of some taxes, will decrease. In the worst case scenario it will be equal to this year's level, but from the first accounts that are being made we believe that next year can go to a lower level than that of 2019. We therefore believe that we have made a positive contribution and I want to say this to our colleagues in the opposition, who often paint us as a quarrelsome majority: there is a big difference between fighting and confrontation. Often the other complacent political forces and the media portray this confrontation as a quarrel. We would not have brought the draft budget bill to the House with a full mandate to the rapporteur and with a series of amendments that were fully shared if this debate had not been positive and productive and had not made it possible to improve the maneuver, sharing in the majority the improvement measures that have been drawn up. Therefore, the text we are discussing is better than the text initially conceived by the Government. I really want to stress how the Senate could make a positive, effective and sincere contribution to this tour. I would like to thank Mr Pesco and his colleagues in the Commission for the work they have done together. I would also like to address my colleagues in the minority, because it was not obvious that we would be able to compare ourselves with a large number of about 800 initial amendments, and then to almost 1,500 amendments, which were tabled from time to time. It had not been taken for granted to arrive in the Chamber with a full mandate to the rapporteur. We have done it and I believe that this too is a positive sign of the ability, certainly and in the first place, of the majority, but also of the whole Senate to operate positively, productively and constructively. Inside the maneuver there are some important measures for the system of Italian households and companies. There is the cut of the tax wedge, perhaps still a little'shy, but, given the conditions from which we started, could not be greater. It's still an important sign. This measure also contributes to the reduction of the tax burden on our citizens. There is an important intervention - the green new deal - that wants to characterize the action of this Government. We have already had the opportunity to talk about this when the so-called climate decree was discussed. The green new deal, with an important mass of resources and investments that also intends to involve the private economy of the country, wants to bring important changes on the issues of circular economy, urban regeneration, sustainable tourism and the fight against climate change. We know very well that the regular and regular conference on the global climate is being held in Madrid. We have no encouraging data or that we are being told that the direction is being reversed. So we also need to do something more as a country system, like Italy. In the maneuver there is a strong characterization in this direction, with billions of resources made available (some already in the next three years, others in the years to come) in order to have a positive impact on these sensitive issues. Italy Viva has also made positive contributions on this issue in the discussion of the measure, with the submission of amendments. I am thinking of green mobility, a simple amendment that equates electric scooters to bicycles, but that certainly gives rise to a small revolution on the sustainable mobility and micromobility of these electrical instruments. Certainly there is still a lot to do, but, already from the first reactions, the operators of the sector and the municipalities that are experimenting, with the so-called decree Toninelli this type of micromobility, have given very positive opinions on the measure. We have planned a fund for the construction of urban bikes: EUR 50 million for three years means 3,000 kilometres of new bike paths. I believe that these are also important signs to say in which direction the government wants to move with determination. On the side of the municipalities, the government had already dealt with the game very positively, but the amendments adopted in the Commission further improve the framework. We already had important resources on the investment and current expenditure side. The Commission has been able to bring forward positive proposals that will finally, after several years, allow the municipalities to see the current resources increased thanks to some measures on the credit fund of doubtful liability and on the guarantee fund of commercial debts, but also with the release of the resources deriving from the old cut of the municipal solidarity fund. It is therefore very positive that these measures help the backbone of our country's institutions, namely the system of municipalities and mayors, which are a bit the frontier of the institutions in front of the citizens. I shall conclude, Mr President, not without touching on two important issues, namely agriculture, with the refinancing of the food waste fund as a result of our amendment, and on measures to combat xylella, to protect our products from Italian soiling and to encourage measures on agricultural innovation. However, this budget law also contains a package of relevant resources for the family. For several years the family, the natural cell on which society is founded, as our Constitution says, had not been at the centre of political action again. In this budget law, both thanks to the Government's proposals, and thanks to the Commission's amending work, there are resources for the baby bonus, bonus for the kindergartens that grow, measures to increase the number of kindergartens in our country. Amendments have been adopted which will allow municipalities to develop kindergartens also within nursery schools, making a good distinction between the two structures, without going to do further soil consumption, but enhancing existing structures. We are still thinking of extending parental paternity leave and maternity leave. We have really done a significant job on this side too. We have also committed ourselves to the role of women with the re-edition of the so-called Golfo-Mosca law, which allows us to have in the boards of companies a quota reserved for women. I would call it a great job, of which Italy Viva is certainly satisfied, because it has made a positive contribution of ideas with its own proposals and also with its own insistences, but in the end all the majority has benefited. The next step is to grow the country and to grow the country there is a need to stimulate investment. Italy Viva in January will propose the shock plan, a plan to free those 120 billion euros that are already posted by the previous and this budget law with measures that allow these resources to enter the economic circle of the country and create wealth to be redistributed. If we do this, I am sure that the next budget law will be much easier and will give us more satisfaction. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u112	Mr President, we are very concerned, but we do not have this optimistic picture of the situation. We do not deny that we are particularly concerned about the progressive loss of national sovereignty. Our financial laws have now become an exhausting arm wrestling with European consorteries, of those who look forward to plundering our territory, our companies and our excellences. While we live it with great worry and effort, we who think we represent our people, from the parts of the PD and its derivatives, like the so-called sardines, this protectorate that has become Italy in Europe is almost a pride. It is enough to see one of the many events proposed in all the sauces on television these days; we see that in the squares of the so-called sardines the red and rainbow flags replace the blue ones with the stars of the European Union. As you know, to the people of the left the tricolours are indigestible. This shows that we have been living in a real protectorate, in a police regime since 2011. Italian citizens are allowed to vote, but systematically prevented from being represented by the people they choose as their rulers. In fact, we had in order the various Mounts, Letta, Renzi, Gentiloni Silveri, up to the two-faced Giano of these days, the current President of the Count Council of Ministers. All center-left governments. What puts fear, to me personally, and that puts us afraid are your slogans, not ours, because, with those watchwords, which since 2011 echo in our televisions, on the newspapers and in these classrooms, all the measures tears and blood on the shoulders of our people, the strictest, the most penalizing. We all know the slogans: save Italy, pay attention to the spread, secure the accounts, pay attention to the very high public debt, save the savings. With these watchwords, with these slogans - these, yes, dangerous, not before the Italians - we are reducing the country to what it is, we are reducing the nation to what it is. Even today we are talking about five new taxes, even on plastic and sugar, which we have treated extensively. To conclude and try to be synthetic, more taxes, less infrastructure investments, more rigour, less services to citizens, less incentives to those who hire, equal, paradoxically, to more public debt. Yes, because to these professors we would like to say, once and for all, that austerity policies have not produced the desired effect. These are the data of the debt-to-GDP ratio: we have passed from 2011, with a debt of 116% compared to GDP, to 2018, with 2,380 billion euros of debt, equal to a ratio of almost 135 percent. So, in addition to cutting policies, the famous spending review, in addition to these great-sacrifice policies for our families and for our people, we also got the opposite effect. That's what we should talk about. You got one thing. You need this: the applause of the regime newspapers, the stars of globalism, the applause - and not only - of the priests of high finance; in the meantime you have also reabsorbed the Movimento 5 Stars, once, President, anti-system force, now brought back to more meek advice. We, on the other hand, would like a completely different state. We'd like to support who he hires. For us VAT matches are not evaders, public employees are not all idlers. We are more European and Europeanist than anyone, because this portion of the world, where we have the honour of living and have had the honour of being born, has always been the centre of culture and development, the centre of civilization, greatness, beauty and art. What has been built, on the other hand, is the saddest and most gloomy: austerity, the ESM, libertarian policies, the absurdities of Brussels. Enough of this austerity, enough of strangling companies, enough of treating the military, the law enforcement, the fire department, the teachers in this way. Our Europe is five thousand years old, your fifty years old and there is a big difference between our Europe and your Europe. Italy must decide to repay the commitment, the disappointment, the lives donated for a few euros per month; it must think of the people, of our people who have done so much, who have made it great and do not think to repay the German and French banks. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u113	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u114	Mr President, many of my colleagues from the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group have given a very detailed explanation of why our Group is displeased by the manoeuvre, which affects various issues, from the macro-economics, to fiscal policy. My vision is that the devil, at times, is in detail, so I will not touch on major issues, but I will just quote an amendment that I had the honour of co-signing, together with the members of the Budget Commission, on 14.0.4. There are two very simple things to say about this amendment. The first part spoke of the special departments of the Armed Forces with objective acquisition tasks and rangers. I do not want to dwell late in the evening to explain to you what they are; let's say that they are our fellow countrymen in uniform for whom war is also in peace time, because they are sent to risk their lives where national interests, reading the lives of other Italians, can be put at risk, and where the values that our democracy inspires can be put at risk. We commemorated and celebrated the fact that, during an attack in Iraq in early November, members of the Italian special departments returned home alive, but injured; they lost their legs and feet. These are our countrymen in uniform. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Expenditure of around EUR 5 million called for an adjustment of their operational employment allowances. It is not the allowance they receive during the exercises and it is not the salary; it is the allowance they receive for the days of war that live in different countries of the world, even without the knowledge of the great mass of the population. This is a serious responsibility; serious for any Italian citizen, who is defended by them, and doubly serious for an institution like ours. The second part of the amendment, which was much softer but also felt by a few hundred thousand Italians, concerned firearms. I don't know if you know this, but at the Olympics, winter and summer, we have many medals that come from disciplines such as biathlon, so-called academic shooting, flying in its various disciplines and, in other competitions, dynamic shooting. Most foreign athletes use Italian weapons and ammunition in the same competitions; we are talking about sports with firearms. However, a rule which would have allowed international competitions to take place in Italy and which was part of this amendment was also rejected. I remind you that a piece of paper, plastic or metal is shot in firearms; it is not a sport against a human being and it is not Rambo. It is simply a sports activity in which Italians excel, thanks also to Garibaldi, who created national shots, one for each province, because learning to use a gun was a part of making Italians (he did not see it as a sport). Sport with a firearms weapon is today a great resource for Italy and there are hundreds of thousands of enthusiasts, ordinary and quiet people, of whom I have the honour to be a part, and who, thanks to this amendment, would have had a bureaucratic simplification. Even here I do not dwell on the technical part; I am available to give all the explanations, which I have already given during the presentation of the amendment in the Budget Commission. So what can I say? My firm opposition is not only to this financial manoeuvre, but above all to the inspiring criteria, those of which the senator and vice-president of this Chamber spoke. Precisely the guiding principles are those which we oppose; precisely his considerations and the criteria underlying this wretched financial maneuver are those to which we oppose, in general and in every detail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u115	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not deny that I have been somewhat indecisive in agreeing to speak with a speech that has already been prepared for a few days on organizational matters. But I saw him again today. I sat down and fixed it, beginning to cut a series of measures that I thought could be put on the ground and that were accepted, but they were not. But the beauty was to note that today's government has actually put in place measures and solutions for the famous family welfare. It has been twenty years, if not twenty-five years, that I have been working on these aspects, and from the political forces of all sides I have never seen an intervention in this direction. Today I can admit that the prospect has been that; I no longer list the measures, because other colleagues have already made extensive statements. However, I do not deny that, with reference to what Mrs Rojc has just said, this is the beginning, so I really hope that we can continue in this direction in any way, with any government force. I say this because the commendable measures that have been put in the field are not included in a larger project: that's a bit what my colleague Toffanin said. Be careful, I appoint colleagues who belong not only to the majority but also to the minority, because for me the important thing is the solution, the objective to be achieved, the measure. This measure which concerns all planning on family policy interventions is a type of intervention that should see us all united in this direction. So that I don't get lost in chatter, I'll bring you some data. We always talk about Christmas and President Alberti Casellati has also realized an event on this topic. Denatality is important and I intend to decline this speech because it seems to me like when thirty years ago the Greens launched an appeal for the environment and were seen as idealists, dreamers, as if everything they said did not have a scientific foundation; but today we see what is happening with the environment. Well, the Christmas talk isn't really going through right now, it's not a new topic. It is a topic that today comes in a more meaningful way in Parliament's classrooms and is also referred to the Government. This is because it is the result of a work that also associations and other realities over the years have led to solicit the attention of the political class. For example, Istat's Christmas report takes pictures of a country where fewer and fewer births occur year after year, with a loss of more than 120,000 new births over the last decade, a fall at rates above 20%. I have said it in other contexts and I will repeat it here, even if for me it is a bit tired of always saying the same things, but for someone else it may be a novelty: do you know that every new birth has a positive impact on the annual national GDP of 35,000 euros? In 2017 we had 458,000 children; since 2008 we have had a contraction in births of 15,000 units, if you want to multiply 15,000 by 35,000 euros comes a figure of about 4.4 billion euros less for the country's economy. By this I mean that we unfortunately have a shortsighted vision of the economy, we do not have a macroeconomic vision. When we talk about birth and interventions in this direction we look only at the exits and this is not a 360 degree vision, because every birth brings with it and stimulates the induced, the work for small and medium-sized enterprises. Are we not also seeing a class contraction in schools? On the other hand, it is also commendable to intervene and pay attention to disability, so the increase in funds in this direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Drago, I must invite you to conclude, because the sitting will end at 10 p.m. and I must allow another intervention to take place after yours. DRAGO (M5S). Therefore, starting with the conclusion (because, as you can see, surely the speech cannot be concluded here), I would like to make an appeal to all political forces to produce a study on this subject, each with his own specialties, his own skills, his own training; a table that clearly does not have ideological aims, but that sees all political forces together to solve a very serious and long-standing problem. I shall conclude by saying in particular my wish to vote on amendment by amendment, because I want to feel my conscience in my choices for the future of our young people. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u117	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u118	Mr President, dulcis in fundo or perhaps even in cauda venenum, we shall see if that is the case. Today we come to do this farce of discussion, yet another, after a tribulation analysis, dream sessions, suspensions, reflections, referrals and summits, which - I remember well - instead of solving the problems, perhaps they also increased them, and all largely seasoned with confusion. We are also faced with the very undemocratic prospect of removing from the House the examination of the text and the possibility of intervening. Let us hope to avoid this passage, which does nothing but further nudge the already sculpted institutions. So, a little more than a few days after the end of 2019, the budget maneuver does nothing but draw a budget of Italy: a country with great potential, very modest results, small ambitions and an immense crisis of confidence, which is particularly evident from the wide and evident breakdown between the consent, the expression of the will of the Italians and the current representation in power. The representativeness of politics is a serious problem, as is the crisis of politics. However, in this way, all you do is accentuate the detachment between the people and those who should be their representatives. I remember words not mine, but that I quote from the basic article of a well-known daily: if so many Italians have no sense of the State it is because the State continues to make sense to them. Colleagues in my group, more experienced than I, will be able to enter more deeply into the analysis of the text. I just want to remember a few pages of a law that I'll call abstruse and complicated, to use politically correct expressions. A number of complaints have already been raised for punctual, non-systematic forecasts, without any vision and without a future. Unfortunately, however, there are also forecasts that can be considered absolutely dangerous and rules that manage to become it: many of the fiscal provisions contained in the draft law have a substantially discriminatory nature, as they are intended to have their effects limited to certain sectors of the market, and thus having a negative impact on entire production systems. For example, there are rules in themselves that should theoretically be aimed at discouraging behaviour that is harmful to the environment and human health, such as this sort of ethical tax, which was actually dictated by cash requirements as well. Among these we read the plastic and the sugar tax (according to a refrain often, unfortunately, recurrent in Italy: everything that is defined in English, it happens, always hides some archanus). These rules have been designed without assessing the impact on the market, employment and the system. Applying ideology to the tax system is as serious as applying ideology to the system of justice: they create, essentially monsters, that go to devastate sectors and to affect precisely the institution. You can't go back from these monsters unless it's expensive. But they are ethical taxes so strongly and ideologically desired, that as soon as the clamour was raised they were all revised. So, just to remember trivial things, if a man is not willing to fight for his ideas, or his ideas are worth nothing or he is worth nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The picture of the country at the outcome of the maneuver of these first months of government is very concerned. This is a nation that runs towards the abandonment of the great industry: see the defeat of the Ilva question. A nation that punishes the small and medium-sized enterprise, which considers every VAT number as an evador, which stirs up a tyrant tax and makes the taxpayer march a tax stasis. If, however, on the one hand, President Mattarella's appeal to the indecency of evasion, I would like to recall the indecency of a tax system that is heavy, unfair and punitive for those who observe it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As it happens, this strange majority also repeals the rule, among other things wanted by the League, which subjects to taxation money transfer to foreign countries. A opaque mechanism, sometimes, which unfortunately cannot distinguish between good money and bad money. We know there's something wrong, but sometimes, unfortunately, it stinks a lot. If politics wanted to charm our fellow citizens in some way, perhaps it did so with the transforming magic of President Conte, President of two governments at the antipodes. Since next to him there is another lowest common denominator, I would not want this transformation to be a quality or, better, a vice of others; but transformism means changing the shirt and staying under sweat. We are, at the end of this 2019, in full immobility of a state that is boating between public debt, external bonds and weak government, all seasoned by some useless Europeanist rhetoric. In the meantime, real transformations take place, changes take place; everything over the head and, sometimes, outside the borders of Italy, without it ever being the protagonist. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u119	As established by the Conference of Leaders, the follow-up to the general discussion on the state budget for the financial year 2020 and the multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022 is postponed until tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-173.ana.u121	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.57.
