ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to address a heartfelt thought of mourning and closeness on behalf of the entire Senate of the Republic to the family of Senator Franco Ortolani, who died on 22 November last, because of a terrible illness. Man of science, of strong civic sense and of uncommon courage, in the course of his long academic career Professor Franco Ortolani has been the protagonist of many environmental battles in defense of our natural resources, especially in the Campanian territory, his land of adoption. Born in Bolognese in 1943, he had in fact moved to Naples very young to study geology and there he had remained, as an ordinary professor of that matter, at the prestigious University of the studies "Federico II". Always at the forefront of the fight against ecomafias, Franco Ortolani dedicated himself in particular to the serious risks associated with hydrogeological failure, the environmental devastation caused by the illegal landfills of the land of fires and the protection of those he had defined, together with his wife Silvana Pagliuca, the sanctuaries of drinking water. Together they have promoted a valuable work of scientific information, denunciation and awareness of citizens: a work that he has continued with great passion and tireless dedication, even as a senator in this legislature, until the disease, discovered only a few months ago, allowed him to do so. With the death of Franco Ortolani the Senate lost a brilliant mind, an honest person, kind and passionate: a politician who had made respect for the justice and health of citizens not only of the values to be pursued, but a valiant style and model of life. An example for the institutions, for all of us and for future generations. In the memory of Senator Franco Ortolani, I invite the Assembly to draw close to the pain of his wife Silvana, his family, friends and loved ones and to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u6	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, in agreement with the Parent Company, I am speaking on behalf of Movimento 5 Stars. On Friday, November 22, Senator Franco Ortolani passed away: the news left us dismayed. For many of us he was like a brother; a sincere friend of all, a university professor of geology with a strong environmental sensitivity, committed to common goods. His daily bread was the hydrogeological failure, the seismic and volcanic risk, the polluted sites, the protection of the territory: passions that I shared with him in a total and in absolute harmony. It is customary to weave the praises of the dead. To read the tombstones all men were saints and heroes, but in the case of Franco every praise, even the most exalted, can only be reductive. A jovial character, a gaze that penetrated your heart, a sincere and contagious smile, great grace. It conveyed joy, enthusiasm, trust and courage. He didn't like to stand out, as the older men often don't like him. Despite his immense knowledge and wisdom he acted gently. His humility, knowing his brilliant past of life, left you dismayed. His wanting to serve the community was also moving. It is precisely his boundless spirit of service that led him to run for the Senate at a late age, the same spirit that animated him without saving to make surveys wherever it needed a geological competence and in the lands of fires. The last stages of the disease, which he used to call a road accident, lived them with a titanic courage. He gave us complete confidence in his prompt recovery; he didn't want us to worry about him. On October 21 he wrote: "I am not yet able to return; as soon as I have returned to my home. He regretted his absence, telephoned me always asking about parliamentary activity and gave me his greetings for everyone. Three hours before he left us, he wanted to know how the convention on the clean-up of polluted sites had gone, where he should have been the rapporteur. [[Applause.]] He couldn't speak anymore and had his daughter Paola ask him, but he cared so much about it. He cultivated many dreams to be realized as a senator; among all, those to whom he cared most were the completion of the geological map of Italy and the recognition of water as a common public good of strategic national importance [[Applause) -]] is filed a motion at his first signature - with safeguards and thrusts for the great geological reservoirs of water, what he called sanctuaries of drinking water, the large carbonate massifs. It would be nice if these dreams could come true soon. He strayed at the tip of his feet, leaving us with a luminous example of life and a great political heritage, the true, high and unique. Thank you, Franco. [[Applause]] Your footsteps are deep and indelible and we will try to follow them. The entire 5-star Movimento Group and - I am convinced of this - the entire Assembly is close to its loved ones with affection. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u9	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, as Forza Italia Holding Company in 13a I would like to say that Franco Ortolani was a decent person, a gentle, polite, polite, smiling man, but no less combative and less tenacious in carrying out actions in favour of the environment. He was extremely competent, geologist, academic with Emilian blood and with a smile and with a bell tower vocation, in that land of fires to the reclamation of which he dedicated his political action. Having him as a colleague in the 13th Commission, albeit in different positions, was indeed a pleasure, an increase. The memory that we carry and that we will preserve of him is that of a serene and simple person; as my colleague Quarto said, he had that simplicity and humility that only deeply intelligent people can express; that humility that is not modesty, but deep intelligence. I think again - and now we understand this - of how strong his courage was: a man so serene, so smiling that he hid his illness; we did not know, he did not realize that he was so seriously ill. I am thinking again of how we have always agreed on the idea of acting as widely as possible, especially on issues of high environmental and health interest. He leaves us, therefore, the inheritance of his thought, which is transversal, and of his actions and all the value of his competence. It leaves us in inheritance the battles it has sustained for many years with balance and rigour with all and on all fronts, from the fight against the hydrogeological failure, to the contrast of the eco-reactors, to the activity of research on oil drillings. It will be very strange not to meet him in the Senate halls or in the Commission room, but I think we will always see him with the tail of our eyes. We owe the Italian geological map to him. [[Applause.]] This could really be a battle we can do together. I think it's the best way to prove that we understood his understanding. We will miss Mr Ortolani so much and send a strong, strong embrace to his family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u12	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in agreement with the Parent Company, we too wish to participate in this moment. Always, when a public character - it is necessary - disappears, there is a commemoration like this. Often the positive words that are spent to remember the character are sincere and heard. Sometimes, as in this case, you have the opportunity to talk about the person. As is the case with us in this House, we can talk about it, more or less, out of direct experience. I got it from the Parent Company in the Environment Commission. The few words that I would like to add to those already spent by Mr Quarto and Mr Gallone - you will feel the same because we are talking about the same person and not just the same colleague - are those that make me say that the education and mildness with which Franco presented himself should not be considered a sign of weakness because they gave even more strength to his ideas and his values that he always tended to represent with that spirit and calm, justifying and explaining them. I have never heard him say: I think so because yes. He had humility - I am not ashamed to say that it happened to me - to explain things to you, to get off the chair from which he could quietly pontificate, since his matter knew her well, and to always make simple what maybe was not, all - I repeat - acting not as a senator, not as a professor, but as a person. Sometimes, he even had the humility - it makes me smile - to ask us. You understand that, above all on certain subjects - and it is right to admit it - his experience was greater, but he set himself in the same way that at the beginning of his career he would happen to do, meeting someone who knew more; he never started from the assumption of knowing more, but he always put himself at par and was always willing not only to teach, but also to learn definitely with a spirit that was not equal to the age of history. The last thing I feel like saying is this: someone said that power - if power can be defined what we have - does not change you, it shows you for what you really are and in this case showed us a Franco Ortolani senator as a decent person, a citizen - as it was before - at the service of his community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u15	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, words are sometimes the limit of feelings, words are the limit of hearing. That is why today, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I will say a few words in memory of Senator Franco Ortolani. I hope that these are right words, that they can represent our closeness to the family, our sorrow and above all what Senator Franco Ortolani has represented for us who have worked alongside us in the Environment Commission and for all of us: a man of science, a man of culture, a man able to live to the full the principles of sharing, able to live to the full the principle of politics that puts itself at the service of others and of the common good, of the good of all, always with an attitude of deep dignity and respect for the dignity of others, the dignity of the environment. The words he has spoken and the paths he has made with him in the Commission and not only have always ensured a balance in political action, although many times choices can have been made through different points of view. But the effort and effort of politics is precisely in that ability to fly high and always know how to find the common way to the common good. The mild composure of Senator Franco Ortolani has represented and must continue to represent for all of us a trace of humanity. And to all of us, beyond the positionings and beyond the sensibilities, today touches the task, the responsibility and the honor of regenerating that trace of humanity, in order to be fully up to our commitment. For Senator Franco Ortolani, one of our thoughts and, for those who believe, also a deep prayer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are very close to the suffering of our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and the family, because Franco Ortolani's disappearance was a profound pain, we all know that. We regret together Franco Ortolani, who in this Chamber and in the Commission - we have listened to all his colleagues - stood out for the passion, for the work, for the competence he wanted to put at the service of the battles he has fought all his life. He was certainly a man of science, a competent man; but he was also - I want to remind you this way - an environmentalist militant, a militant who fought against a terrible injustice, which produced so much pollution and so much suffering in that land. It was not the bad thing that killed him; it was one of the consequences of that environmental pollution he had fought over in all these years. [[Applause from the M5S Group and from the government benches]] He had almost said so himself in a post in September, when he announced the return of the disease. He said: "I pay my ten-year militancy against pollution in defence of health, the environment and natural resources." They were not words used lightly, but the attempt once again to ensure that even that suffering could be put at the service of the continuation of this battle. In all these years he had given voice to all those citizens who had been forced, for a very long time, to undergo the cynicism of the great criminal organizations that had polluted that land. He had never left his home, never lost contact with that land, with its suburbs. So he was a passionate militant, but also a symbol of the fight against toxic waste in the land of fires. Even when there was the great emergency of waste in Campania, it was in the front row in the battle against the Acerra heat-to-energy plant; it was fundamental, even with its scientific expertise, to prevent a landfill from being opened in the Vesuvius Park. I remember this because in our battles we meet a little 'all from different points of view. This - I want to say it here with force not only on behalf of the Senators of LEU, but of the whole Mixed Group - is indeed an important loss, also for the work and contribution he has given this year and for everything he has done before even becoming a Senator. There are repeated formulas so many times of which in the end one forgets also the meaning; one of these is that the best way to celebrate and remember a person is to continue his struggle. Here, I believe that in the case of Franco Ortolani we must not use it rhetorically, but instead continue on this road and give immediately, even through the examination of some measures in this matter, a tangible sign that we want to continue. Hi, Franco. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u21	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I entered the Environment Commission only two months ago, so I did not get to know Mr Ortolani directly, because, unfortunately, two months ago he was already absent and convalescent for the disease that had affected him. However, I had the opportunity to speak with several colleagues and, above all, to look for some information, in addition to those two brief occasions when I had the opportunity to speak with him in the past months. Well, I drew the image of a whole person of one piece, of great scientific competence, but also with a great civil orientation, consistent with his professional commitment, which led him to work not only for his own territory, but also to make available other realities around Italy, on issues related to geology, the environment and ecology in a wider way. A person on whom there are no shadows or gossip or strange things on the Net, but only positive comments for his commitment and his activity in favour of his territory and, in this year and a half, in favor of the national institution represented by the Senate. Other colleagues have already said this: he was very concerned about two issues: the national geological map and the water sanctuaries. Also on my part and the Gruppo Italia Viva-PSI there is certainly the idea and the willingness to find a way to give concrete implementation to these dreams. ( [[Applause.]] Let me add, however, a very personal reflection, almost intimate, in the face of the death of a colleague. Each of us has dreams and proposals on these benches and in his drawers that he would like to see realized for the role he plays. Too often we may get lost in unconstructive discussions, in matters that prevent us from bringing home useful results for our territories, for the battles for which each of us spends. The death of Senator Ortolani makes us think about how we use time and how to bring home good results for the nation that honor our commitment as senators. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u24	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group also participates with emotion in the loss of Mr Ortolani, a good, confidential, very competent, mild and kind person. His unexpected and rapid death leaves a gap between us colleagues of the Land Commission and the Senate environment. His great work, recalled by all the fine words we have heard so far, is a hope for all of us in the Commission to commit ourselves to doing better and his memory always remains within us. To all his family the most heartfelt and sincere condolences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u27	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we, too, owe the expression of a feeling of sadness to the death of my dear colleague Franco Ortolani. I did not know him, but I heard and read of his great professionalism and of his great human figure, well defined in the interventions that preceded me. The nature of us mountain dwellers in the face of the great mourning and sadness of life is that of silence and confidentiality. So we also want to express our closeness to the family, of course, as well as to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and to remember with a prayer our dear colleague: requiescat in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u28	You have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u29	Mr President, last week I also had the opportunity to offer the Government's condolences to Franco's family. I thank my colleagues from all the groups who wanted to remember him for what he was and who will continue to be: a simple person, humble and full of knowledge that he gave everyone. Half of our Group grew up with Franco Ortolani before becoming a member of parliament: he was one of those people who was always there when important battles were needed. Those who grew up in the land of fires grew up with Franco Ortolani, who spoke of the land of fires before public opinion even knew it. She was one of those people who was talking about hydrogeological failure, but she couldn't bear to waste money on hydrogeological failure. I met him during the garbage emergency in Naples, when the extraordinary government commissioner was Gianni De Gennaro and, if no mistakes were made then, it was precisely thanks to Franco's technical reports. Even those who supported the choices of the extraordinary commissioner to the emergency do not remember Franco as an antagonist, because he was not one of those who used relationships to be protagonist. It was one of those people who had shown that in some areas of that territory there were aquifers, so there had to be no landfills, and if today there are communities that have a better quality of life or equal to a few years ago they owe it to Franco. [[Applause.]] I can only remember this for a fact: when we were making lists for this legislature, for the policies of 2018, in the uninomial colleges in the Senate nobody wanted to run for office with us because no one thought that one could win in the uninomials with a list. Franco called us one evening and said: "I'm running; I can't do it but I put my knowledge at the service of the country, beyond the result." This was Franco Ortolani. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u30	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education Camillo D'Errico in Palazzo San Gervasio, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I suspend the meeting for the convening of the Conference of Group Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 16.42 a.m. and resumed at 18.52 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u31	The Conference of Leaders established the new timetable for work until 21 December. The current week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, in particular on the draft budget law and the decree-laws transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies. The discussion of the draft budget law in the Assembly will take place at the sittings of Monday 9 December starting at 12 noon and Tuesday 10 December. The calendar of the week also includes the following topics: decree-law on the reconstruction of the territories affected by seismic events (between Wednesday 11 and Thursday 12); communications from the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council on 12 and 13 December (Wednesday 11, at 15.30); information from the Government on the weather events that hit the Piedmont and Liguria regions (Thursday 12). Groups will be able to intervene for seven minutes each. On Thursday 12 there will also be a debate on the financing of policy, which will be concluded without the vote on policy instruments. Each Group may intervene for fifteen minutes. The schedule of the week from 17 to 21 December provides for the possible follow-up of the decree-law on the reconstruction of the territories affected by seismic events, as well as the decree-law on the recruitment of school staff and tax matters. On Tuesday 17, at 4 p.m., the secret ballot will be taken using ballot papers for the election of a Senator Secretary. After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 8 p.m. The sitting of Wednesday, 18 December will be suspended in connection with two events: the conference jointly chaired by the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament - to be held in the Chamber - in which the Secretary-General of the United Nations will attend; the ceremony of the end of the year greetings to the Head of State, scheduled for 5 p.m. On Thursday 19, at 9.30 a.m., the secret ballot will be held by means of ballots for the election of two members of the Data Protection Supervisor and two members for the Authority for the guarantees in communications. After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 2 p.m. Tuesday 17, at 11 a.m., the Senate Commissions for the renewal of the vacant posts of their respective Presidency Offices are convened. In agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Committees of Inquiry on Banks and "The Forteto" are convened to proceed to their constitution on Thursday 19, at 9 a.m. In addition, the Conference of Heads of Group decided to extend to the Permanent Commissions the arrangements for the electronic submission of amendments, in accordance with the standards currently used for the Assembly. Finally, the Conference of Leaders decided to suspend the end of the session for the whole of December, starting next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 21 December 2019: [[Monday 9 December h. 12 - Draft law n. 1586 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2020 and multi-annual budget for the three years 2020-2022 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1631 - Decree-Law n. 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 23 December) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 (Wednesday 11, 15.30) - Information of the Government on the weather events that hit the Piedmont and Liguria regions (Thursday 12) - Debate on the financing of politics (Thursday 12) Tuesday 10 " h. 9.30 Wednesday 11 " h. 9.30 Thursday 12 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to draft law No 1586 (State Budget) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Monday 9 December. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1631 (Decree-Law No 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, December 17, h. 16 - Vote for the election of a Senator Secretary (secret ballot vote by ballot) (Tuesday 17, 16) * - Following draft law n. 1631 - Decree-Law n. 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decide-Law n.... - Decree-Law n.... - Decree-Law n. 126, Recruitment of school staff (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decide n.... - Decree-Law n. 124, Tax Matter (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decide n. 25 December) - Vote for the election of two members of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and two members of the Authority for the guarantees in communications (secret ballot vote by ballot) (Thursday 19, 9.30) ** Wednesday 18 " 9 Thursday 19 " h. 9.30 Friday 20 " h. 9.30 Saturday 21 " h. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No.... (Decree-Law No. 126, Recruiting school staff) and No.... (Decree-Law No. 124, Tax Matter) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The sitting of Wednesday 18 December will be suspended in relation to the conference chaired jointly by the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament - to be held in the Chamber - in which the Secretary-General of the United Nations will attend, as well as for the ceremony of the end of the year's greetings to the Head of State, scheduled for 5 p.m. ** After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 2 p.m. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1586 (State budget for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022) (30 hours, excluding explanations of vote)]] [[Majority Rapporteurs 3h Minority Rapporteurs 1h Government 3h Votes 5h Groups 18 hours, of which: M5S 4h 5' FI-BP 2h 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 2h 45' PD 2h 9' FdI 1h 38' IV-PSI 1h 36' Mixed 1h 35' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 1h 21' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of bill No 1631 (Decree-Law No 123, Reconstruction of territories affected by seismic events) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 41' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 27' PD 21' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 126, Staff recruitment) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 124, Tax matters) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 8' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u35	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to remind the President of the Senate that our Group has tabled Question No 4-02227, published on 8 October 2019 at session No 152, in which, with regard to the fact that the President of the Council of Ministers had alleged conflict of interest, the League is asking to know whether the President of the Council of Ministers can exclude that there are parcel projects signed by him in conjunction with Professor Guido Alpa and on letterhead, referring to sponsorships submitted to the Data Protection Supervisor. In the light of the service of 'Le Hyene' and the agencies that appeared in these hours, where there is even talk of possible'smoking' parcels (so they are called by the agencies themselves) we would like the presidency of the Senate to ask the President of the Council to answer this question, as would be better done since there is a parliamentary act, rather than making statements to the press. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u38	ORTIS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the attention of the House an emblematic case of my Molise, concerning the Regional Council chaired by President Toma, who, despite governments for only a year and a half, is collecting many uninstitutional behaviors. Specifically, the President of the Molise Region is denying to the oppositions access to the spending documents relating to the use of credit cards in possession of both the President and the city councilors and regional executives; credit cards that allow them to spend up to 30,000 euros a year without any external control of merit on such expenses. To the Regional Councillor of the Movimento 5 Star Andrea Greco has been repeatedly banned with pretentious reasons the access to the statements of the above-mentioned cards, thus denying to all Molise citizens the possibility of knowing how public money is spent by the regional rulers. The refusal of access is obviously followed by several warnings from the applicants, resulting in a subsequent complaint. I sincerely believe that such a situation is unbecoming for a public institution: it is not fair to avoid with trivial excuses a demand for greater transparency. I also wonder whether it is really necessary to go through the courts to obtain information to which - I repeat - all citizens should be able to access. I would therefore like to ask the governor publicly if there is anything to hide in the required documents: perhaps there is something that Molise citizens should not know? I expect an answer, hoping that it will not be the judiciary, which has already been flooded with other acts, to force the governor of a region to give the citizens details of how they spend public money. [[Applause from the M5S and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u39	Colleagues, we have finally concluded the speeches at the end of the sitting, with which we will see each other next year - as we have rightly said.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-170.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 9 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 19:01.
