ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u6	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this opportunity which is given to me because I sincerely wish to draw attention to a very serious matter which has passed a little under silence in this House. Like everyone else, I read the newspapers, so the fact that the news has been reported in the newspapers is not enough for me; I wanted it to be brought to the attention of the Senate, one of the highest institutions of the Italian Republic. I am referring to the arrest of Antonello Nicosia, which took place the other day. Antonello Nicosia is the collaborator of a deputy elected in the ranks of Liberi and Equal and passed a few weeks ago to the new political formation of Renzi. If we look at what the newspapers say, depending on the direction of the left or right, we find more or less guarantee: there are those who prefer to wait, rightly, for the conclusions of the trial, of the investigations, of anything else, and those who point the finger and are harder. What has left me speechless is the deafening silence of the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission Morra, of which I am a member. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In these months we have auditioned on everything, then I have got tired and I have no longer participated in the meetings of the Commission, because, with all due respect, I am interested in history, I like to know it, but I arrive from the province of Lecco, from the Manzoni Lecco but also from the Lecco mafia and I know what the mafia is; I have lived as an administrator, first as a city councilor then as mayor, with the clan identified by the investigation called Metastasi, known throughout Italy, so I know what it means [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I expected a strong stance and the immediate indication of a meeting with all the members: let's talk, because the mob has it in here, in the highest institution and you can't pretend nothing [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Protests of Senator Beginini]] In fact, when you run a small town like mine, but you look after yourself because you have a family, you remember. [[Protests from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u7	As usual, the President of a Group asks him to speak at the beginning of the sitting. FARAONE (IV-PSI). But he's not president! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute. I am not establishing a dialogue with the individual members of the Senate Assembly. Senator Faggi, if you call individual people into question, we are exorbitant of the obvious freedom of expression within the House. If there are instances to be presented in the appropriate Commissions, that will be the place to do so. If you want to denounce a phenomenon, you can do so but you can keep it in the context of political denunciation, then on individual issues there are Commissions or even bodies outside Parliament. I therefore call on you to have this kind of continence and colleagues to allow it to be concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u8	All right, Mr President, I welcome your request, which does not mean that as a component I will make the appropriate comments in the Commission. However, situations with double standards are often called into question, and I am talking about something important. FARAONE (IV-PSI). What are you talking about? BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). What are you talking about? [[Comments from PD and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u9	President Pharaoh, if you wish to speak, you will do so shortly afterwards. I've already noted that. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Now let Senator Faggi finish, who is speaking in the time allowed. Senator Faggi, I invite you to conclude. I would ask colleagues to allow the senator to finish her speech. [[Senator De Vecchis has a sign that says: "No mafia." Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Colleagues, please don't talk to each other. [[Comments of Senator Faggi]] Senator Faggi, address the presidency. I invite you to conclude with due regard for your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u10	No, ma'am, I'm going to continue the surgery because I'm talking about the mob. Half the time she took it from me, the other half from them. I'm not shutting up about the mob! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u11	Senator Faggi, I invite you to conclude, because respect for the times applies to you as well as to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u12	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, if you keep talking to me, I cannot conclude. Let me finish, let's talk about the mob! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I'm not afraid of the mob. Since we are talking about barrels that may have bought Savoini or Siri's chats, then we are also talking about mafia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like Mr Bonafede to come to this House and tell me that there are no infiltrators. Come here and talk! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Now I can finish. Since it has been requested that all ministers report, I would ask the Minister of Justice to come to this House and tell us that we must not be afraid and that we are not infiltrated. I'm done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations. Comments from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u15	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, first of all I would like to condemn the conduct of the Presidency, because if we open up the procedure whereby anyone, while we are about to start work on another subject, can stand up and insult a Member of the Republic and then the debate opens (as each of us will have to respond), we overflow the work of this House. You, Mr President, are now forcing me to do this. I would have liked to have discussed the measure on the agenda, but I am obliged to do so in order to respond to my colleague, just as anyone else could do, both of mine and of all the other parliamentary groups. To get into the matter, we are guaranteed; we are not guaranteed alternating current like the League. I say this because I, my dear colleague, do not tell you that the Mafia is on your right hand when you say that the Mafia is in this House. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] In fact, I believe that Mr Siri, although he is sitting on his right - and I do not say that the Mafia is on his right - is a person who deserves to be investigated and judged, as well as being able to demonstrate his innocence with great tranquility. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Protests of Senator Saponara]] Now, since he's a colleague of yours, he considers him innocent regardless. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] As the Member you mentioned belongs to another political group, she says that she is mafia regardless. I was hoping that you, instead of taking the applause of your colleagues in the League, who I believe to be people at least in words guaranteed, would receive the whistle. ( [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Evidently his colleagues in the League claim guarantee and impunity for theirs and become executed for others. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] On the other hand, since we are discussing judicial matters, Mr President, I would remind you that the election committee has already voted and resolved on questions relating to the requests made by the judiciary on Mr Siri. The House should speak, but it does not. [[Comments of Senator Pucciarelli]] and the magistrates have long been simply waiting for the use of Mr Siri's equipment, computers and telephones to be granted. [[Protests of Senator Emanuele Pellegrini]] and that the Assembly should speak, while the Junta has already spoken for at least twenty days.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u16	This will be the subject of the next Conference of Leaders, to which you are present, so I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u17	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, know that at the next Conference of Leaders I will ask that this issue be put on the agenda of this House, so that it can vote on this measure, given that we have alternate-current justiceists. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! FARAONE (IV-PSI). Shame on you! [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u18	President Pharaoh, I just wanted to remind you, as I said at the beginning of the speech by my colleague in the League, that, when he asks the President or the Leader of a Group to speak, it is a practice that he can do so (and it is the only case in which it can be done at the beginning of the work of this House), of course with certain limitations of continence, to which I have referred both those who intervened and those who objected. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u21	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I feel it is my duty to speak briefly, because I believe that this is not the case and that the subject of the Mafia cannot be used as a tool against political opponents. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This Parliament, if it gives the signal that in the fight against the Mafia is divided because it is always a problem of others, does a great favor to the Mafia. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] We must know that, because the Mafia fights it all together, not throwing at us weird when it comes to Siri or another Member of Parliament. It is right that the Anti-Mafia Commission should discuss this. Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Nothing has been done in the Commission! MIRABELLI (PD). I think you need to discuss real things. With regard to exploitation, I would remind you that the only hearing requested by the League in the Anti-Mafia Commission is that of Mr Delrio, who has no criminal inclination, but was useful in creating some agitation and therefore for instrumental purposes in view of the Emilian elections. Now Senator Faggi, like her costume, turns her back when people talk. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, it's not my costume! MIRABELLI (PD). I would like to remind you that today the Bureau of the Anti-Mafia Commission met and although I would have agreed, no one has asked the question of deepening this matter, which is really bad, because we are talking about a person who had access to prisons, even under the regime of Article 41- bis, and who had relations with the mafias. It was enough to propose it: why is it not proposed in the Anti-Mafia Commission? Why should we create the striking fact? Why do we have to exploit everything? Today, for example, we asked to listen to the Attorney of Latina, after reading a sentence of the gup from which clear episodes of voting of exchange emerge, but we do not use it to flag and make political battle against the League. We do this because we think it is right to go into some of the issues. I insist, Mr President, and I believe that the Presidency should be the guarantor of this: there is no election campaign or propaganda on the Mafia, but we are fighting it if we are all together; if instead we give the idea of being divided and the anti-Mafia Commissions stand in the way of convenience, I fear we will give great gifts to the Mafia. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Garavini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u24	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, as the Head of the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Anti-Mafia Commission, I take the floor after listening to the speeches of my fellow Members, whom I share. The question is serious and, as my colleague Mr Mirabelli said, there has been no discussion of it in the Bureau today for a reason: being a serious matter, we are trying to acquire the documentation, in particular the order, to see what is at the root of it. I agree with Senator Mirabelli when he says that there is a fundamental issue. There was a felony for mafia events going around prisons, who was interested in 41-a and, actively, in 4-a, and, taking up the words of my colleague Mirabelli, the Parent Company in the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, even foreign, I believe that we must give a signal of great unity and clarity in the contrast to the mafias, addressing all together the issue of life imprisonment with measures that can prevent the bosses from returning to freedom. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That will be in fact the measure of the unity of the Assemblies of the Senate and the Chamber. This issue will therefore also be addressed in the Anti-Mafia Commission. The President, having been called into question, will reply as far as he is concerned. However, they point me to a rather curious issue; it would appear that Ms Occionero is also related to the other most famous Occionero, involved in an investigation. There will be a lot to look into in the various fora, not only in the anti-Mafia Commission, but probably also in other Commissions, with the documents in hand. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to what Mr Mirabelli said about the signal of unity that we must give and that it is right to give, I agree. I would like to point out then that we have had an issue which has been pending for more than a year in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunity, which concerns a former Mafia-inquisited colleague whose return to Junta we voted for last week. I think it would be a beautiful signal for the country if it were finally hesitated as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u26	As the anti-Mafia Commission has been called into question - and only for this reason, because we are not opening a new debate - it has the power to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u27	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I have been called directly into question by Mr Faggi on the matter, which is well known to all, of what happened in some prisons, particularly in Sicily, which saw the protagonist of the parliamentary assistant of a Member of the Republic. To me, frankly, it is very little of a concern to which political formation the Member belongs. It is certainly a lack of prudence that allowed the parliamentary assistant in question to convey outside these institutions of penalty of the pinches, which would seem to be directed to men of the organization of Matteo Messina Money. Having said that, this morning at 8.30 a.m. there was a Bureau, which was also attended by the League Leader, who did not raise the problem in any way, in order to express the need to deal immediately with the Nicosia-Cocchionero problem. But I want to go further, because if we have to make instrumental controversy, we can also do so, remembering that other political forces, not only those directly involved in the membership of the Congresswoman Occionero, also have serious problems of infiltration within them. It is precisely today that there has been a request from a member of the Bureau to take an interest in the events in Latina, where, following a judgment, it has also been proved - if I recall correctly - a vote of political-mafia exchange within the meaning of Article 416-b, a crime which I consider to be quite serious. I think it is certainly in everyone's eyes that we need to deal with these matters in a serious way. There is a very serious problem, life imprisonment, and yesterday I was talking to Senator Romeo about it. We would like this problem to be brought to the attention of all Italians - because I have not only talked about it with Senator Romeo - by as many parliamentary forces as possible, because the action of contrast to the mafias, Senators Faggi, cannot, unfortunately - or, if you like, fortunately - be the preserve of a single political force. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , as long as you want to fight it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because in words everyone is good at explaining the problems, but then, in fact, we have to start solutions. The proposal put forward - and this is how I officialise it in this House - is to obtain the broadest possible consensus on a parliamentary initiative that will regulate, as provided for in the last sentence of the Council, a legislative vacuum that sees us all committed to combining the right of the person, albeit mafia, even subject to the restrictions of 41- bis and possibly sentenced to life imprisonment, with the sacred duty-right of the legislator to protect the communities. Because a mobster who is not actually repented and who escapes from his previous life sentence, represents a serious threat to society. I would like to call on all colleagues, no one excluded, to another problem. The Anti-Mafia Commission is a formidable instrument with which, if you want, you can produce that counter-action that everyone expects of the Mafia associations. Well, just a few days ago, on 30 October exactly, the Commission audited the Interior Minister Lamorgese, who, with a report rich in data and considered heavy in terms of content, explained to the Commission the indications that the Ministry is following to lead the war, house to house, to the mafias. I would remind everyone that the same political force that today complained about the Occionero-Nicosia affair had expressed a former Minister of the Interior who, although urged months and months, never showed up in the Anti-Mafia Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Do something, you're not doing anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Morra, please conclude. MORRA (M5S). I conclude by recalling that there are institutional duties and that a Minister of the Republic has a duty to refer to Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S and IV-PSI groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Romeo's protests are alive. Senator Morra goes to the benches of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group to show Senator Faggi a sheet showing the presence of parliamentarians at the meetings of the Commission he presided over.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u28	We have also had confidence in how the anti-Mafia Commission intends to proceed in relation to the facts that are being reported. Let's continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u29	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education - Francesco Maurolico - in Spadafora, in the province of Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u30	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1493. The rapporteur, Senator Mantovani, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u31	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Senator colleagues and fellow senators, the bill to the attention of the House today, after the examination of the 1st Commission, brings the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 2019, in the matter of the reorganization of the Ministries. The first of the eight articles of the Decree-Law re-transfers to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities the functions of tourism currently exercised by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policies. It provides, in particular, for the transfer of human, instrumental and financial resources for the exercise of the functions in question; with the exception of resources relating to the Directorate-General for the Development of Territories and Forests not related to the development, promotion and exploitation of tourism, since this Directorate is considered to be part of the Department of European and International Policies and Rural Development. At the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, in addition to the posts of a general level manager and two non-general level managers, with an amendment approved during the examination in the Commission, a further twenty-five posts of non-general level manager for supervisors, libraries and archives are established. Until December 31, 2019, for the performance of the functions in the field of tourism, the Ministry for Cultural Heritage makes use of the competent structures and organic endowments of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. Since 1 January 2020 the Ministry of Agricultural Policies has transferred the human, instrumental and financial resources identified by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 12 November 2018. The organic endowment of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage is increased to the extent corresponding to the non-directional staff transferred by the Department of Tourism of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, with simultaneous reduction of the organic endowment of the latter Ministry. There are also some news to Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999 of reform of the government's organization, and, finally, it is arranged that within sixty days of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law, the statute of the ENIT-National Agency of Tourism is modified in order to foresee the supervision by the Ministry for Cultural Heritage. In the Commission, a rule was adopted allowing further recruitment of staff to ensure the essential services of reception and public assistance, supervision, protection and conservation of cultural heritage. With an additional amendment of the Government was also authorized the Ministry to use Ales SpA to carry out the activities of reception and supervision in museums, in state archaeological parks as well as in other institutes and places of culture, in the more of carrying out the competition procedures necessary to satisfy the needs of personnel of the Ministry to be employed in such activities. Additional resources have also been recognised for workers involved in specific local projects at institutions and museums with special autonomy. Article 2 provides for the transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the functions exercised by the Ministry of Economic Development with regard to the definition of commercial and promotional policy strategies with foreign countries and the development of the internationalization of the country system. The human, instrumental and financial resources of the Directorate-General for International Trade of the Ministry of Economic Development shall be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1 January 2020. With the special decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, it is necessary to identify, by means of a special ranking, a separate one between management and non-management staff, according to the priority criterion of acceptance of the expressions of interest expressed on the basis of a special question, one hundred non-directive staff units and seven non-general management staff units, among those assigned to the Directorate-General for International Trade Policy and the Directorate-General for Internationalization and Trade Promotion Policies, the Ministry of Economic Development, to be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in conjunction with the financial and instrumental resources. Some amendments to Legislative Decree No 300 of 1999 to supplement the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to remove certain powers of the Ministry of Economic Development. Further provisions take place on the regulation of the Agency for the promotion abroad and the internationalization of Italian companies (Agenzia Ice). Further forecasts concern the discipline of the Plan for the extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy and the attraction of investments in Italy, referred to in Article 30 of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014 and the transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the functions - already owed to the Ministry of Economic Development - concerning the relations with the company Simest and the exercise of the relative functions of supervision and direction. With an amendment approved in the Commission, it is added to the above-mentioned Plan, as an action with a financial envelope, support for micro and small enterprises for participation in European and international calls. With an amendment by the Government, further regulatory changes have been envisaged as a result of the transfer of these functions, while the Presidency of the International Committee for the Attraction of Foreign Investments remains at the head of the Ministry of Economic Development. With the same amendment, they are without prejudice to the powers of the Ministry of Economic Development as a vigilant administration on the chambers of commerce abroad, referred to in Law No 518 of 1970; while they transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the seat and competence on the Economic Observatory for the collection, study and processing of data relating to foreign trade, distinct for flows of import and export of goods, products and services and for geo-economic areas. Article 2 also deals with the composition of the Committee, which is responsible for administering the revolving fund for the granting of interest subsidies for the financing of export credits referred to in Article 3 of Law No 295 of 1973 and the additional revolving fund for the internationalisation referred to in Article 2 of Decree-Law No 251 of 1981. A number of amendments are made to Law No 496 of 18 November 1995 on the ratification and enforcement of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, aimed at transferring to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the powers on authorisations for exports of materials covered by the Convention. The further amendments to Article 2 concern Legislative Decree No 221 of 2017, for the transposition of European legislation for the reordering and simplification of procedures for the export authorisation of dual-use products and technologies and the application of sanctions in the field of commercial embarrassments, as well as for each type of operation of export of proliferating materials. In particular, the powers relating to authorisations for exports of dual-use goods and materials shall be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is also provided that, by 15 December 2019, changes resulting from the provisions of Article 2 of the Decree-Law should be made to the regulation of organisation of the Ministry of Economic Development and that until 31 December 2019, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall make use of the relevant organic structures and endowments of the Ministry of Economic Development. Article 3 provides for the remodulation of appropriations for the revision of the roles and careers of the Police and Armed Forces. Draft of the resources allocated in the fund instituted from the article 35 of the decree law n. 113 of 2018 for the adoption of normative provisions in matter of reorganization of the roles and the careers of the staff of the Police Forces and the Armed Forces, including the Harbour offices. The fund, following a government amendment, is increased by EUR 60.5 million per year from 2020. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I apologize. Colleagues, free the part in front of the government benches. I would also ask the Forza Italia Group to lower its voice because it is also difficult for the Presidency to follow the report. Go ahead, Senator Mantovani. MANTOVANI, rapporteur. The Decree-Law has additional resources for the payment of overtime payments carried out by the staff of the Armed Forces engaged in the operation "Secure roads" for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2019. An amendment by the Government, approved in the Commission, replaces Tables B and C, annexed to Legislative Decree No 217 of 2005. The first concerns the qualifications of the directors of the National Firefighters' Corps and the functions assigned to them; the second concerns the measures of the stipendary salary of the monthly and risk allowances and the allowance of specific character of the staff of the same Body. Article 4 establishes, until 31 December 2020, the technical structure for the internal control of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in order to strengthen the checks of administrative and accounting regularity and management control. The functions and the overall budget of the structure, as well as their financial coverage, are defined. With an amendment that I have tabled as rapporteur, it is expected that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, until 31 July 2020, will be able to proceed by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to the reorganization, also with reference to the tasks and functions provided for by the rule under consideration, of its own offices, including those of direct collaboration. In addition, the same amendment amends the legislation concerning the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures, redefining its institutional tasks and clarifying that the activity carried out by the Agency does not exclude the obligations, tasks and responsibilities of the owners and managers of the infrastructure provided for by the current legislation. Finally, it is expected that the authorised staff of the Agency will have unconditional access to infrastructure, construction sites and legal and operational premises, as well as to all relevant documentation held by the ownership bodies and infrastructure managers. Article 5 news article 37 of Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999 on the organization of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea which, through a government amendment, is redefined "Ministry of the Environment and the ecological transition." I want to point out that this is not a change of name in itself. With ecological transition, we want to indicate a path for our society in which to implement reforms that are beneficial to everyone and beneficial to the environment, in order to create a production system that is less and less energetic and less polluting, based on thermal reuse and the principle of zero-waste, on the thermal renewal of buildings, on changes of practices in mobility and, more generally, directed towards sustainability. The article provides that the Ministry of the Environment articles in departments, regulated in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of Legislative Decree No. 300, in number no more than two, in reference to the functional areas defined in Article 35 of the same legislative decree. Article 6 lays down provisions on the organic allocation of the Ministry of Education, University and Research. To this end, the article 1, paragraph 345, of Law No. 145 of 2018 (budget law 2019) - which had arranged the increase of the organic endowment of the Ministry - reducing from two to one the places of general management level. With reference to the modalities of reorganization and simplification of the organization of the various Ministries, it is noted that the provision provides that the regulations of organization of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, of the Ministry of Agricultural, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policies, of the Ministry of the Environment and of the Ministry of Education, of the University and of Research, are adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, pursuant to article 4-a of Decree-Law No 86 of 2018, in derogation from the ordinary procedure established by article 17, paragraph 4-a, of Law No 400 of 1988. Article 7 establishes the extension of the functions, limited to ordinary and urgent acts of administration, for the President and members of the Board of the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom) until the new Council is established, and in any case until 31 December 2019. In conclusion, Article 8 lays down provisions on the entry into force of the Decree-Law. I would therefore like to thank the President, all the Senators and fellow Senators of the Commission, the representative of the Government and, of course, the offices for the excellent work they have done and invite the Assembly to approve the conversion of the decree into law. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u32	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. She asked Senator Stefani to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u33	Mr President, we have referred here to the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1, relating to draft law No 1493, as we note that there are serious problems of constitutional legitimacy due to the non-compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution and the absence of the requirements under which law can be legislated by decree-law. In this sense, the decree-law appears to be a completely contradictory instrument and even almost inconsistent with its very nature. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly expressed its opinion that the decree-law should represent an exceptional hypothesis, to be used in the presence of precise conditions, otherwise the great power of the Chambers is depleted: the legislative power. In this case the requirements of necessity and urgency do not exist; if anything in a hurry, which is not exactly urgent, perhaps because the majority also has little confidence in the duration of the government and is in a hurry to achieve the objective as soon as possible. In the course of the debate and the work in the Commission there were also Kafkian situations, perhaps due to the very nature of the measure. It was also uncomfortable to present proposals for amendments coming directly from the various administrations (then from the Government), which were then withdrawn because they were inadmissible; this certainly caused some confusion in the Commission's work. It is certainly difficult to find in the reports a motivation or justification for the transfer to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities of the functions exercised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the field of tourism. With this passage we have come to lose the kind of governance that could have been built in a subject for some really exciting, because not all parts of Italy are lucky enough to have the Colosseum or the Verona Arena. [[Brusio]] Mr President, may I ask you, if possible, to have some silence?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u34	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator Stefani. As I have asked before, I would ask my colleagues to leave the benches of the government free while the debate is under way. I also call on my colleagues to lower the volume of the voice so that Senator Stefani can continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Italian tourism is therefore not only tourism around cultural heritage or monuments. In most of Italy, not being there maybe these gifts and these great jewels, we still have great potential for tourism: the promotion and enhancement of the territory, through the heritage that offers us the nature itself, the heritage of the landscape, the heritage that gives us and offers us a beautiful management of agriculture. Agriculture includes sectors of great interest, such as agritourisms and the world of food and wine; the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies, as had been supported and directed by Minister Centinario, had led to the promotion of very interesting projects. Instead, it was intended to return to the past, almost demagogically, avoiding the expectations of all these projects. Secondly, but not least, there is no need and urgency either in the provisions leading to the transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Mise's duties in the field of trade policy and foreign promotion. The report talks about enhancing the growing economic component of foreign policy. This is not a requirement of necessity and urgency and undermines the conditions for appealing to the decree-law. There are also a number of passages in the measure which raise doubts and concerns. There is the establishment of several posts with managerial functions, by way of derogation from the assumptional limits provided for in the various administrations; all this, again, without a clear justification. For all these reasons, we believe that the urgent decree is inadequate and clearly contrary to our Constitution. For the reasons set out above, we of the League Group ask that you be free not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 1493. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u36	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u39	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, since, at the suggestion of Senator Calderoli, the prejudices have been removed from the constitutional aspects, there can of course be some criticism of the measures that come to this House in many ways and sometimes it would probably also be unnecessary to enter into discussion with regard to certain issues. However, appreciating also the intervention of Senator Stefani, who tried to find arguments at the constitutional level, it is clear that a government that is involved in implementing policies identifies in the organization proper to the Government and in the distribution of matters the main way in which to implement these policies. Therefore, if this Government, as I believe, rightly wants to begin to be incisive and decisive in some areas, it must be organized in the way it considers most useful. Therefore, this decree-law is necessarily urgent, because we must enable the Government to address absolutely important issues, such as those contained in this decree, in an operational and effective way. I'm gonna start with a joke. Link Centinario, pecorino is sold in the world with trade agreements, not with tourism; this is ABC. If we make this kind of reasoning, we understand the substantial inadequacy of the coupling between the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and the theme of tourism. Our country with tourism works and works significantly, in a synergic way, in an important way, through a series of aspects, which have been remembered, but which reside in our country and its characteristics. The deposits and cultural heritage present in our country really represent the source, not only from the cultural point of view, but also from the environmental point of view, of the tourist industry. And it is clear that this is also linked to the theme of living well, of Italian lifestyle, of the ability to convey the values of our being in our country. From this point of view, it seems absolutely consistent to me to come back to the idea that it had already been practiced before. Putting together the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Tourism means accentuating those synergies that in our country can really allow us to make a qualitative leap about the tourism industry. We are also talking about foreign trade. It is a theme that comes from afar, because on many occasions we have tried to understand what is the most appropriate way for our country to face the internationalization of our companies, taking into account the economic fabric that is made of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are not like Germany, which has world champions in industrial sectors that, when they move, carry with them a nation system, a country system. We have an economic system made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, which needs to be organized, but which also needs recognised landmarks in the various countries. And what reference point has everyone recognised, not least because of the capacity of our ambassadors, but because of the embassies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? This is the theme. I could cite the many reforms of the National Institute for Foreign Trade made in previous years, but today, when a company goes to a foreign country, whether in the European Union or outside, the first reference, the first contact, is the embassy. Having this awareness today means focusing on this system, which is a capillary system, an organized system capable of giving answers. Now, how can you be against this kind of choice that is finally being made? One might ask: how long did it take to make this kind of choice in our country? It is probably true, but I believe that, from there, we can build a more complex organization, which allows us to be more effective in bringing our businesses abroad. I stop here, on these two points, because I believe that they are the most characteristic elements of this decree-law, which has the character of necessity and urgency because this Government must become operational as soon as possible on issues such as these, which are significant and decisive for the development of our country, inside and outside. On the other hand, I believe that the content and reasoning behind it makes these choices very important and decisive. Our vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling will therefore be against. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u40	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u41	Mr President, fellow senators and fellow senators, representatives of the Government, this bill, which unfortunately we are about to convert into law, is the classic example of the worst form of legislative activity that can happen in this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are choices that have their reason only in party advantages and dividers, to draw benefits and evidence of partisan, to the detriment of a real and serious examination of the needs and contents, all under the cover of that cloak that Article 77 of the Constitution would allow to use only in case of extraordinary necessity and urgency. I refer, above all, to the unmotivated choice of bringing tourism back within the Ministry for Cultural Heritage. That such action is unmotivated does not say who speaks to you or the Opposition Group of the League, but the Government itself, when it does not spend a single word of the report to justify the choice. It must be done because someone wants it: the arrogance and arrogance of the Democratic Party, which we know well, are put in black and white. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Please note that it is not enough to answer that it is only the restoration of similar and inverse choices made by the previous government, because in that case there were reasons, well supported by the first and convincing results of the action of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies. The strategic choice of linking tourism to agriculture, which started just over a year ago, is now being cleared, deriving from the awareness that it is possible to promote and enhance Italian tourism, not only through the undoubted artistic heritage, but also through the products of the primary activities and those excellences of Made in Italy that constitute a unique heritage, like the tourist destinations of our country. Scheduled projects, allocated resources, a multi-annual plan to be carried out, projects on slow tourism and enhancement of the wine-growing sector, enhancement of the Made in Italy quality, the development of content for tourism promotion activities, tourist training in schools. The fear is that we will witness an arrest of what started. Now it will start again: it will presumably take a few months to restart the car, with obvious and unnecessary waste of time for a sector as important as that of tourism. If then there is, as every day there is more and more rumor, a fall of this Government or even an early term of the legislature, everything will remain in limbo and there will be a total stalemate of the policies on tourism throughout 2020. Italy cannot afford it, not on tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Rather than taking note of the results achieved, thanks to the combination of two undoubtedly driving sectors for the Italian economy, it has demagogically chosen to return to the past, disappointing the expectations of a project in which the enhancement of agri-food production, through the link with the territory and the related tourist activity, turned into an important flywheel of development, competitiveness and innovation. If today's vicious choice is explained by the Democratic Party's thirst for revenge, how can our fellow Senators of Movimento 5 Stars make a similar head-tail, voting the exact opposite of what they voted just over a year ago? I'm sure they'll surprise us again this time with yet another harakiri. Note on the margin: In addition to those transferred, three new management positions are created at the Mibac. Let us now come to the other side of the medal of the decree-law under consideration, or rather to the counterpart, to the exchange goods. For one sector, that of tourism, which is given to Franceschini by Article 1, Article 2 moves another: foreign trade passes to Di Maio. On the merits we could also find positive and acceptable aspects, since this hypothesis has been talked about for many years. In the past it was a center-right government that started a working group that arrived at the drafting of the implementing measures; action then blocked in the direction of arrival, as you well know, by resistances certainly not political. Precisely for this reason I wonder where is the urgency that justifies the use of the decree-law and where is the extraordinary necessity; necessity that moreover had been denied a few months ago, when such hypothesis of displacement had been advanced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led by Moavero Milanesi, but cut off and sent back to the sender by the then minister of economic development Luigi Di Maio. Is it a homonymous or is it the same Luigi Di Maio who now, with a far from disinterested turn, supports and claims it? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here too, I propose a margin note: in addition to those transferred, four new management positions are created at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Article 3 is at least inconsistent with the rest of the measure, because it has no connection with the reordering of the Ministries and we believe it should have been dealt with by an autonomous measure. We are at least perplexed, like many trade union audit acronyms in the Commission, about the modality of the remodulation, that it moves 28 million euros destined to the reorganization of the careers of the Police Forces from the period 2019-2022 to the period 2023-2024. Positive is the coverage of 4.5 million euros for the overtime of the Armed Forces connected to the operation Roads sure of 2019, but we would have liked to see the same commitment for those of the Police Forces, that this year amount to approximately 74 million euros. Coming to the substance, to the "dirty" as they say from my side: the government's amendment that allocates 60 million for the reordering of police forces' careers is a trick. It is not a question of new funds for the sector, but only of moving between expenditure chapters: with one hand it is given and with the other it is taken away. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I list the voices, so that everything is clear: EUR 8.5 million are removed from the prevention and repression of fraud and violations of tax obligations (then we talk about combating evasion); EUR 8.5 million are removed from the fight against crime, protection of law and order and public security [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; 16 million removed from Carabinieri's approach and use for defence and security [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; 1.5 million are removed from the use of the Public Security Finance Guard; 1 million is removed from the planning and coordination of the Police Forces; 3 million removed from the penitentiary administration; 9 and 12 million are removed respectively from the Ministries of Interior and Defence for general affairs; finally, 1 million is removed from security and control in the seas, ports and coasts [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In practice, it is a large facade operation, which reminds so much of the dotto's fantastic tanks, moved from here and there to gab the turn loo. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what you're doing, but you can't fool our cops, carabinieri and financiers. You will give an average of 10-15 euros more to each operator, but to make him do what? If you take away the security resources, the cars, the uniforms, they can only stay in the office and turn their thumbs around. Is that how you intend to manage the security of this country? Our agents are asking for the right compensation, but to do their job. You're insulting their dignity! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Another obscure aspect of the decree-law under discussion concerns the technical structure for internal control of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport provided for in Article 4. This structure will not be independent, so it is already debased on its full potential. Its very short duration (just over a year) will allow you to carry out inspections, of a few hours, in only 20% of the peripheral structures, as you yourself declared. What's the point? Just to give some assignments to the usual friends of friends? I'm asking. Margin note: Staff allocation is made by way of derogation from any existing rule and two new positions are created and 12 external consultants are taken. In starting to conclude, I make a final note about the new organization of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which is absolutely not clear. The text of the measure speaks of a maximum number of two departments. The report states, however, that the departments are already identified in number of two, one of which is dedicated to environmental recovery and circular economy and the other to the processes of improving air quality and sustainable growth. You have forgotten many fundamental themes. It is clear that there is ambiguity between the text and the report. As usual, few ideas but well confused. Don't deny it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What, then, is the meaning of the decree-law under consideration? That the PD, with tourism, wants to make a spite of the League we can understand. But for the Movimento 5 Stars? With the alibi of the reorder, is the purpose for you to create new boxes of executive posts in the Ministries? Are you, you senators, turning into navigators to create jobs for citizens' income recipients? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also point out that - as if the original text were not enough - the majority proposed amendments to hire 30 other MIBAC managers for EUR 3.5 million; new funds for other MIBAC fixed-term contracts for EUR 500,000; another 150 assumptions at MIBAC for EUR 5.5 million; 5 million at ALES SpA to do what, despite all these assumptions, MIBAC will not be able to do; another five experts at MIT for EUR 150,000; at MEF 3 new general managers and 16 non-general managers for EUR 3.1 million; 25 new figures at the Court of Auditors for EUR 3.5 million. And then you tell us that, in the economic maneuver, you plan to cut the costs of the ministries? Oh, my God! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The face we want to see will be yours, dear colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars. What will you do today to press the button to vote for the shift of tourism, which is the exact opposite of what you voted on 31 July 2018? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The famous saying: Franza or Spain, provided that the value of the products used does not exceed 50% of the ex-works price of [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u42	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (De Pinedo-Colonna) in Rome, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we have read with some amazement the content of the measure we are debating, which arrives with difficulty, amendment after amendment, in this House. With the economic situation that exists today in the country, the fact that a purely organisational matter is considered urgent has indeed jumped a little to the eye. This is the first fact that makes us understand, from a political point of view, how the Government and the majority that support it are in a situation of serious fatigue, as usually we deal with organizational issues when we are not able to deal with those more exquisitely political. Having said that, on the subject and reading the various changes, I agree with the assessments made by some of my colleagues both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Education, Cultural Heritage, where it was rightly said at the time of voting on opinions: Excuse me, but why was a vote against? The fragmentation of the competences that is done with the decree-law in question is indeed a puzzle: we need to simplify things and I believe that this is in the program of any political force, now, even of those who run to be the administrator of the condominium. Now from this decree-law comes out a much more complicated framework, an outskirts of expertise, from agriculture to tourism, which is also confused about the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to relate to everything that concerns foreign trade. There is some confusion with regard to the Forces of Order, because in the end there is absolutely no choice, amalgamation or definition, as was requested at the hearings. This is the other aspect that struck me negatively: the hearings held in the first Commission were very precise and the representatives of the trade unions and chambers of commerce presented in essence the invitation, albeit from various points of view, not to make too much confusion, not to fragment and to make the indispensable. Beyond the figures, which can be said that they move from one chapter to another, the fundamental point is that here all the representatives of the various forces of order - such as police and anything else - have said once again that overtime is not paid. What are we talking about, then? The question of safety, ports or any other subject is discussed - apart from the question of safe roads - if, however, the people concerned make their voice heard through the representatives of their organizations who come to report to the Parliament that, after so much chatter, they still do not see overtime paid - and the overtime is so much - I think that one could at least have tried to give an answer to what the auditors have said, leaving documents to the documents. And I say that because I consider the hearings to be a very important moment, but, we do not know why, they almost never collect the indications from them. Another issue concerns - for example - the suggestions made by the foreign chambers of commerce: it is true that foreign trade is now being merged with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and on this we could make a long reasoning, because it was a characteristic of the Government of center-right and of our imagining such Dicastery as a window and a door for our companies and businesses, but I do not want to dwell on it. The representatives of the Chambers of Commerce Associations, however, stressed the need to put order, following the shift in skills and considering both the fact that their counterparts abroad carry out a number of important tasks and the strengthening of the issue of the ICE. This is the thread I was talking about earlier: here it seems to me that this is not an organizational issue and that, among other things, it is a matter of confusing and not of giving answers, which could instead be clearer, clearer and, in general, even simpler, which is what the people who have been asking for at the hearing have asked. Another issue that I touch on is the question of control over the control of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Again, let us imagine why this idea of control over control over the control of the Ministry of Infrastructure was born, but it is not possible: in the end, what do we do? Shall we have a robot check out the work of men? If there is a shortage with regard to people, you cannot think of solving problems by putting a pillar of super-control. We go to set up another structure, with the main characteristic of further complicate life, as many other measures complicate it without then reaching the goal, which is to control the controlled ones that control those that still control those that control further. With regard to the other issue that I would like to stress, when we have seen this type of approach, we have rightly wanted to focus our attention on certain aspects, on which we will then look at the amendments. I am referring, for example, to tourism. We know that the Ministry of Tourism has been removed from a referendum, but it is clear that a different and stronger response is needed. To this end, amendments have been tabled by Mr Gallone, first and foremost. There is the problem of Made in Italy, on which my colleague, Mrs Tiraboschi, will certainly speak, and also in this case the full-bodied amendments have been tabled. This means that Forza Italia criticizes the plant, but at the same time it also tells you how it would do so. As he tells you what he would do with a series of amendments tabled by Mr Aimi on police matters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u45	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the current political and legislative framework, the draft law under discussion today concerning the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 21 September 2019 laying down urgent provisions for the transfer of functions and for the reorganization of various Ministries, also assumes a particular significance in relation to the prerogatives assigned to the Department of the Environment. The reorganization of the Ministry of the Environment, provided for in the measure that we are going to vote, is the practical and operational result of a political choice that has wanted to put environmental policies at the heart of government action; a high profile political choice because it is for the benefit of ecosystems and future generations, but also a choice consistent with the cultural tradition of Movimento 5 Stars. The perspective that we want to offer with article 5 of the decree-law, that we are going to convert into the law of the state, is that of an increasingly incisive and effective action on the front of environmental emergencies, making the organization of the Ministry of the environment more adherent to the political direction of the government and the challenges that we have to face. The academic and research worlds constantly draw our attention as politicians and legislators to environmental emergencies that are confronting us with a real epochal challenge. There are detailed reports, rich in data and information, which inform us. Just to give a few examples, we have the worsening of the climate crisis, of the now acclaimed entry of microplastics into our food chain, of the loss of biodiversity that is advancing at a worrying pace. Last June, a study by the Australian University of Newcastle, combining some data from over 50 researches, let us know that we ingest up to 5 grams of microplastics per week, practically equal to over 250 grams per year. With its latest report of 23 September, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has shown that over the last thirty years the ocean masses have doubled their absorption of heat from the air above, warming up by more than 0.6 degrees. We do not talk very often about these ocean masses; but, if these are warmer, they are less able to absorb carbon dioxide: this means that we are losing a carbon deposit that today captures 30% of our emissions. In front of us, therefore, there is the epochal and global challenge of the transition to an economy and a society that must be able to look to the future; a challenge to which the majority of Parliament and the Government, which is its expression, are responding with concrete acts and measures, with a convergence on environmental issues never before recorded. In these hours we are carrying out the examination of the decree-climate law, a measure by which the green new deal is officially launched, strongly wanted by the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte and the Minister of the Environment Sergio Costa and supported by all the majority forces. These are positive concrete initiatives, which intervene with urgent measures in several areas, which can help us mitigate climate change and aim to directly involve citizens and businesses, encouraging and encouraging them to change consumer behaviour and lifestyles, to change the type of production so that it can be greener. The House of Deputies has already approved the bill saves the sea, another important measure that will shortly arrive here, adding another important piece to an environmental policy that is being defined in a fast and completely innovative way. We believe that the Ministry of the Environment must be structured and strengthened in order to face ever better an ecological transition and solidarity in harmony with the action of the other Ministries and of the whole Government. I conclude by recalling that we increasingly need a systemic approach and an integral vision of ecology that combines more strictly ecological aspects with dimensions that are human, social and cultural for the care of our common home. Fritjof Capra says that as far as we go into matter, nature does not reveal to us the presence of any isolated "fundamental brick," but rather appears to us as a complex network of relations between the various parts of the whole. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u46	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today is - in my opinion - a very important measure because it concerns the organisation of the State, and it is inevitable that everything that affects the organisation of the State will also have consequences for the proper functioning of the State. That is why - in my opinion - the first question we should ask ourselves is whether this measure creates efficiency or just and simply meets ideological requirements that we inevitably find in the work of the current Government in more measures. In the Commission at this time we are debating the climate decree-law which, in my opinion, is emblematic of what I have just said, and I would also like to give an example: in determining the criteria for admission to financing for those who present objects of renewal of the school buses - by virtue of an ideology which frankly seems incomprehensible to me - the predominant criterion is that of the number of pupils transported. But if the stated criterion is that of reducing pollutant emissions, how is it possible to give priority to the number of pupils transported and not the number of kilometres travelled? I believe that this parallel clearly shows that there is an attempt here to pursue an ideological and non-practical aim, which, however, in an area which affects more than 10% of national GDP should be prevalent, if not exclusive. And this figure of 10% is of the World Travel and Tourism Council and, therefore, I take it as a good one because the aforementioned entity assumes that the GDP generated between direct and induced is more than 220 billion euros. In my opinion - it is of course a personal opinion - this only fact would justify the existence of a specific Ministry, but this is not the theme to our attention, and therefore, returning to the subject at our examination, the first question I ask myself is the following: why is a plant being called into question that has still, inevitably, not been able to produce its effects? I would remind everyone that it is true that the amendment was introduced by us last year, but we know very well that everything that affects the organisation cannot have any effect in the current year. At best, he'll do it the following year. In such a case, then, how do you justify this intervention - as some of the PD's colleagues did - saying that in 2018 the tourist turnout in Italy decreased? Even if it were true - and I imagine that this reference has done so with precise data in hand - this would be due not to the reorganization desired by the Government in which the League - according to precise reasons that I will then expose - had asked and obtained the allocation of the competences on tourism for the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, but evidently to the activity of the previous Government in which, not by chance, the competences on tourism were linked to the Ministry for Cultural Activities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This shows, if need be, that mine is a legitimate doubt, not a provocative allusion or an instrumental criticism. Clearly, the basic data with which many motivate the choice to transfer tourism to cultural heritage, is real: Italy has a historical and cultural heritage of absolute value, both for quality and quantity, but to argue that it would be possible to increase the tourist turnout by focusing on this is a mistake determined by the ignorance of the factual situation. To argue that it would be possible to increase the tourist presence in Rome thanks to the activity of the Minister means not knowing that the attraction of Rome is such that, yes, it would be possible to improve it, but perhaps cleaning it better; perhaps endowing it with a subway adapted to its role; or maybe simply opening the metro stations, or improving security, and not with the activity of the competent Minister. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] All this shows that there is a separation between the real world and what is an ideal world, clearly present only in the minds of some colleagues, which is completely separate from what we would need at this moment. I should like to say a few words because when we talk about tourism, we are always talking about international tourism. I would like to remind my colleagues that, in their choices, they obviously try to penalise the circulation of money in every way possible: if I have 100 euros in my pocket, for the purposes of GDP these 100 euros are worth zero. If I turn them around and they are spent five times by different subjects, for the purposes of GDP they become 500 euros. So let's not just talk about international tourism, because promoting national tourism would also allow us to create an economy that would benefit those areas of our territory that, instead, are greatly penalized by the reorganization in question. I used to talk about why - in my opinion, quite legitimately and appropriately - the League asked for the responsibility of tourism to be assigned to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. This is due to the fact that there are many types of tourism. The reasons of interest that drive people to move are linked, yes, to cultural goods, but also to naturalistic tourism, sports tourism and religious tourism; but above all they are linked to food and wine tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The symbiosis product-territory works wherever it was created. I do not want to uncomfortable examples such as Parma ham, so the quality of the product and the notoriety of the municipality would probably have allowed both of them to be self-sufficient and move on with their own legs, because we have many other examples. I remember the lentils of Castelluccio, a town near mine, which certainly benefited from the combination of the product with the territory. I would also like to mention the lard of Colonnata, which - without removing anything from a product of absolute quality - obviously without this combination would have been greatly penalized. The combination of food and wine with tourism works, because the boom we have had in Italy in recent years in this sector is about agritourisms. The tourist's new mentality makes it possible not only to rediscover the cultural heritage and the beauty to see, but also to seek the sensory experience; and nothing can better transmit the sensory experience than live directly a territory, with its products, its traditions and its lifestyle. The choice made, therefore - in my opinion - does not take into account the fact that Italy's enormous unexpressed potential for tourism is not in the cities of art. We all know, in fact, that the problem of Venice is not attracting more people, but managing those who already visit it. Everything that limits us in the tourist attraction in the cultural field is linked to the activities not of the competent Minister, but of others: as I mentioned before, is linked to cleanliness, which is at the head of the Municipality; security, which is the competence of the Minister of the Interior - and not of the interiors - to which Mr Morra referred before - or to the competence of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, which must ensure that our cities are equipped with services. It's absolutely not related to what you want to do. Unfortunately, I see that the time available to me is ending and, therefore, reluctantly I am forced to make only a hint of what I meant about the reorganization of the Ministry for the protection of the territory and the sea. In my opinion, even in this case ideology prevails, rather than trying to create efficiency, rather than trying to be ready for one of the dramas that periodically affect our nation, whether it be an earthquake, a flood or a landslide: we know well that the fragility of our wonderful territory periodically obliges us to face emergencies. I would have expected, therefore, that a reorganization would take account of this and be aimed at creating security, which could also have the positive effect of saving people's lives. But all this isn't there. Therefore - in my opinion - the second part of the name of the Ministry,... for the protection of the territory and the sea, becomes prevalent, allowing the affirmation of what I think has been unfortunately a drift determined by an extreme environmentalism, which has had as a consequence the fact that many areas of our country have become synonymous with abandonment and carelessness and never of good management. I was hoping and still hope that colleagues, convinced - like me - that a state's organizational structure should be created that meets the actual needs of the population, will pursue the objective of securing our territories, in order to rediscover a huge nation that, even in this area, would have the opportunity to say its own at world level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I asked myself: do I speak for the third time on tourism after you have already heard me - I repeat - at least three times? Then I said to myself: you have to insist like the drop that, by means of falling, digs. And I also do it because it's my passion, it's what I've been dealing with for a long time. I would like to try to make some reflections in the ten minutes at my disposal, which are really few to deal with such an important industrial issue, trying to go beyond the more political exploitations, which I am not able to do. Let's start with the analysis of some numbers: the tourism industry today is worth about 70 billion (4 percent of GDP), which go up to over 170 and, therefore, to 10% of GDP, if you consider all the induced. We are talking about about 2.7 million workers employed in the sector, more than 30,000 hotels and more than 130,000 extra hotel facilities, for a total of about 5 million beds. These are already important numbers, but on them we have to build a strategy for the next ten years, because there we can go to create more added value and we can increase our country's GDP by two more points. It is not so much; I am referring to a figure that cannot be exaggerated: we are talking about about 35 billion more, which I define an unexpressed potential of this sector of Italian industry. We distract tourism once we enter it into the Mibact, then bring it within the Ministry of Agriculture, not giving this sector the relevant weight it must have and, above all, not defining a strategy underlying it that has not existed for more than twenty years, although tourism is one of the most digital industries. When the Internet was in its early days - I am talking about thirty years ago - no section of Italian GDP included the potential of the digital industry. The only industry that understood it was tourism. So, we have to build on skills that, to be honest, are not yet so widespread in our territory. I would like to add that in the years of my generation, who attended the hotel institute? No one attended it because it was considered a training course of series B. Everyone wanted to go to science, classical or artistic high school, but no one wanted to go to that institution. Today, however, we see that this type of training is very much required. There would still be a lot to do in terms of building new digital skills and new digital skills, which are increasingly needed in this area. We don't think about this sector trying to move it from one Ministry to another. We have to give once and for all - I hear it really now from many colleagues and for too many years - the right value to that brand that is called made in Italy. Yesterday or the day before yesterday the Minister of Foreign Affairs visiting China, at an important international fair, said that tourism must bring, like the communicating vessels - he is right - attention to the best of Made in Italy, because tourism is a piece of Made in Italy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said well: tourism is a piece of Made in Italy. [[Applause from Senator Pietro Pisani]] Made in Italy is the third best known brand in the world - I have already said so many times - after Coca Cola and Visa and has a power in terms of heritage, values, traditions and craftsmanship that has made Italy and small and medium-sized industry in the world great. It has supported Italian exports, even in times of greatest crisis; and we know that, because the figures of the trade balance speak very clearly. It is true that we must also support domestic tourism: it is certainly important, because we have in at least 5,800 Italian cities, which are under 5.000 inhabitants, a vastness of cultural and environmental heritage that also like our Italians and represents slow living, the slowest tourism, which is what is increasingly appreciated; a tourism that is not - pass me the term - flooded, like what we find in the great Italian entrance doors (Rome, Florence, Milan, Venice, Naples and Turin); the capital cities, which certainly attract international flows, which will gradually increase and are very important, because they represent exports for our country. These are the cities from which we can drip tourists - the theory for English speakers is defined as trickle-down - and that is to allow a dripping of tourists from the big cities towards the villages, which represent a beautiful piece of the Italian environment absolutely to be valued. In those 5,800 Italian municipalities that have less than 5,000 inhabitants there is a very important real estate heritage that is called extra-lberghiera structure. Let's also think about Italian savings, which is worth 10 trillion, incredible figures: 4 trillion are in deposits and agencies, which - as you all know - make less; 6 trillion are in real estate. A substantial part of these private buildings consists of farmhouses or valuable buildings, which must perhaps be recovered and made functional to the receptive activity, and are scattered in a significantly important part of the 5,800 municipalities of which I have already told you. It is precisely where we can enhance the food and wine chain, because in those centres there is the best of craftsmanship that can express our farmers and winemakers. Through the combination of hospitality and enhancement of food and wine, we give an important impulse to a piece of Italian Made in Italy, because Italian Made in Italy - I repeat - is not only this, as is not only culture. The Ministry located inside the Mibac makes me reflect again, as well as the fact that only the Italian language is used on the Mibac website. Where do we want to go, gentlemen, with a website only written in Italian? We really need to make a leap forward. It can then be objected that there is the operating arm called ENIT, but the operating arm of ENIT has not yet defined - in no way well in how many years - a serious strategy on marketing and digital communication. I am talking about the whole part of the online promotion that refers to those two and a half billion millennials, that is to say to those who were born between 1980 and 2000 and who in 2025 will represent - well heard, gentlemen - at least 50% of international travellers. We must attract these categories, because today you travel with much less money than you needed for the travelers of my generation. One more thought, the last one, because I guess I almost ran out of time. Why does Italy not think of building, observing what is happening inside the hotels organized in the form of a chain, its platform and its booking? Do you know how much European OTAs (such as Booking or Expedia, which are the most important) are worth on the market? They are worth - I do not know if the data are updated - 340 billion euros. Think what we are losing for not believing in building a platform of the best made in Italy. It is there that we should invest, putting really with courage of the resources and without making carriages; we do not need so many resources in a Ministry of that type. They must all be smart, flexible, young resources that know how to hybridize the competences of those who are forty, fifty years old, who are not so digital, with those who have those skills instead. Here, I believe that reflecting on a Ministry of Made in Italy that has as an umbrella tourism and, under this umbrella, the products that represent the best of the Italian creative industry (enogastronomy, well-being, textiles, design, jewelry and more) can be a piece of strategy to increase the GDP of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u50	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u51	Mr President, I shall try to make some political reflections and assessments, and I shall not go into the technical merit of this decree-law, partly because it has already been demolished, from A to Z, by the punctual intervention of my colleague Luigi Augussori. I would like to start with this reflection: the administrative organisation, in this case the ministerial organisation, is an important instrument, aimed at achieving and pursuing a political strategy. It is not at all, and it is not at all - as is happening in this House today - a whim to please this or that Minister, this or that other political force. I understand that we have reduced ourselves to this because the Government in office does not have a strategy; but surely this is not respectful of Italy, nor is it respectful of the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What's the crime scene? On the one hand there is the main actor, but he is not the protagonist and his name is Giuseppe Conte, because he always appears. On the other side then there is the Movimento 5 Stars, which, depending on the theme and time, makes extras go forward. I'll explain why there's this dramatic crime scene. I would like to focus a moment on tourism in relation to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and perhaps in a little while at Mibac and then also on the issue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today we have as Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism the Minister of all seasons, namely Franceschini, who was Minister in this field with Renzi, with Gentiloni Silveri and, by chance, today he is Minister with the first non-protagonist actor, Count. Franceschini has today revolutionized the delegation to tourism. Some might wonder what's strange and what's wrong with it: nothing, if it weren't that this minister Franceschini is supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, that Movimento 5 Stars that a few months ago voted with the League to transfer the delegation of tourism to the Minister of Agricultural Policy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That 5 Star Movimento which, of course, if it did not lie to the Italians, was convinced that it was possible to harmonize, because we talked about this a few months ago, agriculture and tourism: tourism and agriculture. But there is another aspect that makes this crime scene even more dramatic. At the time when Franceschini was Minister of MIBACT, with the central-left government, then with the Renzi and Gentiloni governments, he did the so-called reform. Then, with the first Count Government in that Ministry went Bonisoli, of the Movimento 5 Stars, who made the counter-reform of that reform. Now the Movimento 5 Stars, in the new government led by Count, Franceschini puts back in that place, which must do the reform of the counter-reform! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I want to understand and, like me, all Italians, because there is this inconsistency. A lot of people have figured it out. It is only intended to preserve the armchair; it is intended to float, not to grow and, let alone, to improve. But, in the light of this inconsistency, in the light of this improvisation, which means wasting time and wasting money, the question is peaceful, if not obliging: did you take this for a Parliament or for a separate joke? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also add that some of the results had begun to reach them. thanks to the excellent work done by Gian Marco Centinario: objective results, not praised by those who have the same political character; results recognized, last but not least, by the avalanche of Japanese who will come to Italy to begin to honor that important work. But the most important thing, which makes this measure, this short-sighted policy, more serious, is that the winning union between agriculture and tourism, while we were debating in this House, was positively baptized in the international context, in Argentina, where the Agriculture Ministers met. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I believe that a political force like that of Movimento 5 Stars should justify to Italians the reason for this inconsistency, the reason for this political strabism. We believed, then, that it was the winning recipe to move forward in agriculture and tourism. In that G20, what was said? That in order to bring out rural areas it was important to put tourism as the main focus. We said so, and we were convinced. Only that we have remained convinced of this, others have changed their minds, who knows why not noble. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to make a comment on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I would like to make it quite frankly. Let's face it. We speak to this House to speak to the Italians, not to talk to them. Everyone understood, everyone, that Di Maio was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be exiled politically and to prevent it from continuing to do damage in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Pirro]] That's clear to everyone! It was a promotion to punish him. Go abroad so you don't do any damage in Italy. On the other hand, it was easy to come to this conclusion, if we are talking about a former Minister for Economic Development who opened 160 tables of crisis and did not close one, beyond the slogans and newspaper announcements! Let's not talk about Ilva right now, because we'll talk about it tomorrow. What do we do with this decree-law? He entrusts himself to those who have opened about 160 tables of crisis, and has escaped, the strategy of commercial and promotional policy with foreign countries and development of the internationalization of the country system. I would like to ask my fellow Members a question, all of them, from right to left, through the centre. But which one of you would give the keys of the house of the sea to the one who devastated and plundered the house in the city? Which one of you would give him this role and this important responsibility? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Organizing and reorganizing the administrative structure is not a whim. It is a serious measure, because it pursues a noble objective, which is the one to which politics must aim: to make your country feel better, makes your fellow citizens and their fellow countrymen feel better. Here, however, we sail on sight, because at all costs this Government must go ahead to allow to keep the chair to those who are no longer liked by the Italians. However, I must also make amends and say that in the first few months the new Executive has achieved an important result: it has made Toninelli forget in a few weeks. Too bad he made us forget it with Fioramonti, a minister who is not worthy to sit in the institutions and least of all at the Ministry of Education, if he looses our crucifix and our Forces of Order. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's what you did. But I must say that, beyond the lack of strategy, this government...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u52	Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u53	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm finishing, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pepe, it's not a matter of time. You anticipated that you would not go into the substance of the measure. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm making a political assessment, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, but at least return to the title of the measure, only to the title at least. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I return to the title of the provision and say that, not only this Government does not have a strategy, but it is even a government without more soul, as it headlined yesterday morning the Republic, with which I agree. Perhaps I would correct by saying that it is a Government without soul from the beginning, a Government that was born against Italians and against Italy, only to fight the fear that Matteo Salvini raised towards these political forces. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Italy is conscious and aware of the pitiful state of the Executive and Umbria is only the first call. We will move forward because we have proposed a strategy to relaunch Italy and instead you, in the tourism sector and in every sector, try to demolish only to maintain a balance that will not last long. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u54	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a second group of teachers and students from the Institute of Higher Education Francesco Maurolico in Spadafora, in the province of Messina, who are attending our work. I have the pleasure of remembering that they were invited by Senator Floridia, who taught at the school from which they came. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u55	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, bill No 1493, which converts Decree-Law No 104 into law of 21 September 2019, provides for the transfer of tourism from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, resulting in the transfer of human and instrumental resources. This argument was addressed about a year ago in the previous Government together with the political contractor (the League), with Decree-Law No 86 of 2018. We had the hope, with that passage, that the made in Italy was a tow, a flywheel within the tourism sector at national level. A number of preliminary profiles on the measure and the requirements of necessity and urgency have been raised. In fact, this is a piece of legislation that was adopted on what happened many years ago. Let us take a step back in the past: on 15 April 1993 a repealing referendum decided to eliminate the important Ministry to which it referred a sector to which the data - we have heard them quoted today - of a very important national economy that is imposed worldwide. From all over the world come to our country: there are so many investments within Italy. For 2018 alone there is talk of about 11 billion euros, with more than 650,000 companies at national level working in the sector. Hence the urgency and the need to intervene in a very important area. The reflection that had been made with the previous Government was intended to give a structure, a strength, an important development to the governance of this economy. When we talk about tourism we talk about three irrefutable certainties of our country: our cultural heritage, our Made in Italy and our landscapes. From North to South, from East to West Italy overflows with these fascinating places that make anyone who comes to our country fall in love. All this has been generated by our culture, built brick after brick, cultivated soil after generations and is the added value of our country's culture. Unfortunately, every time you touch this topic you inevitably end up on culture, because it permeates every corner, every field in our country and could become the flywheel of our economy. We are therefore convinced that in the cultural sector we could find solidity and seasonalization. There is often talk of Rome and many very large countries that need to distribute the tourist influx into their territories every day of the year. Let me give an example: the report of the Symbola and Unioncamere Foundation, often mentioned, states that every euro invested in culture produces 1.8 euros of growth in other sectors. These are factual evidence that culture and tourism can be combined in a synergy for development. I would like to paraphrase a story of my illustrious fellow citizen, Paolo Fabbri, who says that if we drop an electronic device and a book from the highest part of the Senate, the first will lose all its data, while the book, which is part of our culture and history that produced it, apart from a few crumpled pages and a ruined cover, will keep its structure strong. On this metaphorical solidity of the book, which can represent our culture and our history, we would like to structure, as if it were a cornerstone, what can be a Made in Italy culture that uniquely embraces all forms of tourist projection. I would also like to mention all the countries in the hinterland that are full, as well as of agricultural productions, especially that culture that we are unable to achieve. This synergy could therefore make it possible to reach the whole tourist structure of our territory in a widespread way. Article 2 deals with another very important point, for me, concerning the transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the strategy of trade policy and promotion abroad. This function must certainly be used to protect all our economic activities that move outside our country; it must therefore be used a unique promotion, targeted, to protect all promotions abroad without any kind of difference. The regulation of the Agency for the promotion abroad and the internationalization of Italian companies can also create a very important governance and promotional assistance outside our territory. We firmly believe that this shift in the current phase can give the opportunity to bring significant benefits from the point of view of growth and economic recovery. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u56	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u57	Mr President, in view of the few minutes available, I shall confine my speech to what I have said in this measure regarding the transfer from the MISE to the MAECI of the functions of defining commercial and promotional policy strategies abroad. I believe that this is a very serious strategic error which could be particularly dear to a country like ours, which has always been oriented and economically dependent on large export flows, mainly of processed products. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, look at the giants of exports. Japan, for example, has a Ministry in charge of presiding over this sector: the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). Germany has the Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Energie, i.e. the Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy. Look at all countries with a strong export vocation. All of them organise their respective foreign trade institutions and organizations within structures that have three clear characteristics: autonomy, concentration and anchoring to the productive categories of exported goods and services. Well, with this intervention, in a single shot, thanks to the inexperience of Minister Di Maio, in a few days all three opposite effects are realized in Italy: it takes away autonomy to the administration of the sector trade with foreign countries, as it has existed so far; they break its competences in different directions general of the MAECI and their links with the productive activities are removed. Congratulations, generations of people, even less experienced in the sector, had done less damage than you in this sector and in much more time. In a few days you are about to destroy a historical experience that has worked very well and that has been strategic for the growth of our country. President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 October, a World Trade Organisation (WTO) arbitration panel issued a decision on the level of countermeasures that the United States may require against the European Union and some Member States on the so-called Airbus case. Under this decision of the World Trade Organisation, the United States will now be able to impose new duties on goods from the European Union for an amount of up to $7.5 billion a year for the period equivalent to 2011-2013. The amount has been calculated on the basis of the level and nature of the distorting effects created to the detriment of the American aviation industry, as a result of the European subsidies to the Airbus consortium of which we are not a member. In detail, however, the increase in US duties takes place for Italy in an additional 25% ad valorem tariff at the American border on imports of various Italian products, in particular agri-food products, including Roman pecorino, Parmigiano Reggiano, provolone and ham. According to estimates by trade associations, such as Confagricoltura and Coldiretti, about half a billion food exports will be affected, with particular regard to dairy products. This is because Italian products such as Parmesan and Grana Padano are in direct competition with American products from the State of Wisconsin which, with its representatives, elected President Trump. President Trump, in the election campaign, protects American cheese producers in Wisconsin, which is a state that produces more mozzarella and Parmesan cheese than all over Italy. This is how we come to hit our products. This is a trade war. Compared to this trade war, the interest of our country should be to carry out a persuasive action - and possibly also a commercial retaliation - which, in order to be really strong, must take place at the technical level and with respect to the competent American administration, which is specific. It is not in the US diplomatic corps, but it is the USR Office, the Trade Representative of the United States of America. The negotiations that Italy should make, in the interpretation of modern international relations, now take the form of real trade wars, fought with tariffs and tariffs. Well, thanks to your ignorance and inexperience and the momentary political power of Mr. Di Maio, we will now send diplomats to make these wars. Diplomats are excellent state officials in their area of competence and with their specific preparation, but they are not adequately trained from a technical point of view. They are therefore "unarmed" to face these trade wars. Let's just hope you don't want the Armed Forces to join under Mr. Di Maio, because in the case - and in the ridiculous - this country will realize even faster the "happy decline" that you professed, to disappear definitively from the ranks of developed countries. Defending the interests of Italian agri-food companies interested in exporting products on the rich and strategic US market, safeguarding the work and wealth they produce for all, is today a matter of absolute urgency, with respect to which we have all been able to see that even the "diplomatic" mission carried out by the President of the Republic in the United States in recent weeks has not been able to achieve the desired results, because diplomatic policy does not coincide with the commercial one. The fact is that, despite the military power, President Trump does not make the mistake of impaling himself in traditional wars (in fact, he always parades): however, he uses the US economic power to fight enemies and competitors in commercial wars. In order to do so, he uses all the know-how available to his experts in this field, who are lawyers, accountants and officials with specific technical experience gained in the field in decades of negotiations (such as Lighthizer, the lawyer at the head of the established office, the USTR, United States trade representative): the USA strikes with specially developed weapons (think of the so-called "carosello" technique, with which they can change the tariff lines affected at any time in order to maximize the harmful effects of the duties). In order to combat these trade armies, we had an administrative structure - independent of diplomatic relations - capable of entering into a close technical dialogue with the US authorities on any possible modification of the list of products concerned. Now we won't have it. In the governments and periods of growth of this country, we had the Ministry of Foreign Trade; then we went ahead and my colleague Urso was rapporteur and manager of a step forward, the one-stop shops for businesses abroad. Skills need to be unified and businesses need to be approached. Because the latter, when they go abroad someone said they go to the embassy, but they go for a reception, to drink a glass of prosecco, but then they go to talk to their competitors, they go to the world of work and professions; it is another world. Colleagues, years ago we had a digital platform that the world envied us, in which we had reunited all the competences of the import-export sector with a direct digital interlocation with the world of enterprises, that of the professional categories (lawyers and accountants), that of the banks and all the agencies that finance the sector of the commerce with the foreign, with the insurances, with the legal ones that make the arbitrations, with the whole world of the transports (all connected digitally), with that of the customs, with that of the institutions and the international organizations, with the chambers of commerce and with the trade fairs. It is a world to which the diplomatic corps was absolutely foreign. Instead, you pass all this on to a series of offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (which will be the Directorate-General of the European Union for certain competences, such as that of the country system, the Directorate-General for Globalisation, the Unit for the Authorisation of Armament Materials) and break the competences that all other countries of our competitors unify and defend in their autonomy. You don't realize what you're doing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have to invite her to conclude. FANTETTI (FI-BP). Eight minutes has passed, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been a while. FANTETTI (FI-BP). I apologize and allow the remaining part of my speech to be handed over to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. FANTETTI (FI-BP). I want to put only a few final points: the provision is counterproductive for our economy, misleading for intergovernmental and illogical relations in motivations and developments. It could also shift the axis of Italy's alliances, at a time when we need to be very clear in international relations. We pursue trade policy strategies with China, with which we have a smaller exchange than with Slovenia, but above all we disperse a wealth of know-how and specific skills of staff that has been formed with special studies. I am thinking of the master's degree in foreign trade, which the ICE has organized for so long: these officials are not even granted a minimum of specific emolument on the basis of this expertise and in fact we have tabled amendments that we will defend later; they are thrown into a cauldron, that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, without distinguishing between the functions and the expertise of this staff. It is a wrong maneuver and a strategic error for the country system, so we at Forza Italia will not vote for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u58	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u59	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the Republic seems to be plunged into the gigantic game of the three cards; the ace appears, then disappears, and then perhaps reappears somewhere else. Because of the speed at which they are moving and the lack of logic the observer runs the risk of losing sight of where it ended. This is happening with a very important governmental structure such as tourism. In fact, we know that tourism is the oil of our country. We must never forget that thousands of jobs depend on tourism. With the decree-law on our examination, the so-called reorder of the Ministries, the delegation of tourism to cultural heritage is reassigned. I remind you that since the establishment of the Government of which they belonged, the Government of Change, these functions have been well exercised for a few months, not for years, together with the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. We wanted to imagine a Dicastery for the management of the promotion of the excellences of our country in Italy and abroad, but you simply want to sacrifice this objective for bleak reasons of armchairs [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , so that a Minister of the Democratic Party can be assigned such a decisive portfolio for our country. This is an absolutely wrong decision, which we strongly oppose in and out of this House because it is made with absolute superficiality and also the result of a certain amount of ignorance, and above all, arrogance. The research "Mobility, hospitality, culture and charm," curated by Confindustrie, in collaboration with Nielsen, has certified that 40 percent of foreign tourists choose Italy as a destination for their journey for food, considered an integral part of the Italian cultural heritage and the image of the territory in the world. There are regions like Piedmont, for example, for a few months led by the center-right, which even gave the agriculture council a specific delegation on food and its promotion: a great example of vitality in combining tourism for the promotion of our products. Italy is increasingly mentioned among the most desired destinations of food and wine tourism in the world. It is a further component of Made in Italy, the most growing one. We know that our country has the largest number of food products with a designation of origin and also geographical identification recognised by the European Union. Moreover, Italian catering in 2017 counted over 240,000 units, attesting itself as the most important and widespread activity in the country. Think that there is one exercise for every 143 inhabitants. It was said before the 5 million beds available in our country. According to the World Tourism Organization, the specialized agency of the United Nations, food and wine tourism is among the most potential tourist segments. It is estimated that about 93 percent of tourists have participated in at least one food and wine experience during their holiday. The bond is clear and acclaimed. Food and wine experience is not only useful to those who come, but it produces new flows. As has been said before, it produces well-being, it is a crucial resource for repositioning emerging or mature destinations. There are districts born or reborn thanks to agri-food products. Just think of the places and the lands of wine, not only of our Piedmont but of much of our country. There are villages that have been revitalized by tourism and the combination with food and wine [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , through the fairs and the many voluntary activities of the pro loco or associations, which - I would like to remind you at the moment - must be combined with tourism and the development of the food and wine of our country. The link between tourism and agricultural policies produces development and new work: it is a new economy compared to the old economy of simple tourism of cultural goods, which are a static sector and often too exhausted. (at 12 p.m.) (BERGESIO followed). The new structure proposed by the new Government Count and its left-wing government also relegates tourism to a subordinate and marginal role with respect to the structure and purpose of cultural assets, being not however clarified in the decree-law in question which position will cover this delegation within the structure of cultural assets. From 1 January we will have the abolition of the tourism department and the transfer of personnel from one Ministry to another, without this having any logical meaning. It is for this reason that the total absence of logic and the removal from reality, that is, from the common feeling of the people, of the people, of those who deal with these activities, are unfortunately the main thread of these months of left-wing government, which I would call abusive government because it does not reflect the will of the Italian people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You ask us to vote for an engineering operation in the Palace, ignoring the consequences, and seriously underestimating the risks. You neglect farmers and our producers, the lifeblood of our territorial economy, the garrison and the protection of the environment. It is useless that we approve decree-laws such as that on the completely empty climate and do not protect our productions and our small producers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Do you know that this sector is booming? You simply do this, I repeat, to satisfy the appetites of the Democratic Party, in particular of an important exponent of this party, who wants this decisive role. The Palace goes in a completely opposite direction to the people; in the middle there is a sector, like that of tourism, that continues to make the shuttle. Colleagues of this absurd majority, remember that there is a limit and that cannot be forever: every election Italians have the possibility to say theirs; they did it in Umbria and will do it on January 26 in Emilia-Romagna [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , we're sure of it. Withdraw this provision and spare this new damage to the country, if you can. Otherwise, be assured that when they finally make us vote, as planned in our democracy, you will return home and with us in the government we promise you that we will put things right now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u60	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 of the decree-law under discussion transfers to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities (Mibac), starting from 1 January 2020, the tourism functions currently exercised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies, Il Mipaaft (with the "T" because there is also tourism). The reverse process is dated August 2018. An important return, a "T" that from Mipaaft goes back to Mibact. Tourism with the capital "T" is, in fact, a sector that with the induced is worth 10% of the Italian GDP. As evidenced also by the technical report in reference to the technical and financial profiles, the technical provision does not involve new or greater burdens for the public finance, except for the forecast referred to in paragraph 2, relative to the institution at the Ministry for the cultural assets and activities of the posts functions of a general level manager and two managers of not general level. The resulting costs, which are up to EUR 530,000 per year from 2020 onwards, are in fact reduced by a corresponding reduction in the authorisation of expenditure. Not only that, this decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries brings in dote another important move: that of the competences on international trade and the globalization of the system Country from the Ministry of Economic Development to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The mission consists of two spending programmes: firstly, trade policy at international level and, secondly, support for the internationalisation of businesses and the promotion of Made in Italy. Cultural heritage, agriculture, tourism and Made in Italy are four of the terms and locutions that describe the essence of our country and that touch its heart. Without prejudice to the opportunity to set up an ad hoc Ministry for Tourism, as provided for in our programme, the return of tourism to MIBAC has its own logic. Certainly tourism also includes food and wine routes, important routes, full of history and culture. To name a few: the road of the Roman Castles, the food and wine itinerary that goes from Castel Sant'Angelo to Amatrice, the path of Sila, a place where you can breathe the purest air in Europe, dotted with villages that preserve works of art and wonderful views, the path of the Langhe and more. A food and wine itinerary is a journey to discover a territory, through which the tourist can experience the local culture and acquire the true sense of the place. This close link between food, culture and tourism is also confirmed by the World Tourism Organisation. The richness, the variety, the strong territorial roots and the tradition are the identity elements of our food and wine heritage, historical and cultural. But we are in Italy, fortunately we are in Italy, the wonderful Italy, the Nation of Art. The growth of tourism in cities of art continues unstoppable. Also 2018 ended with an increase in visitors, supported mainly by arrivals in the eternal city, Rome, followed by presences in the city of Matera, capital of culture 2019. In conclusion, we share this return, after a single year, of tourism to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, because Italy holds 70% of the world's cultural and artistic heritage and for this reason we believe that the natural seat in which to manage this precious heritage can only be the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. As a member of the Agriculture Commission, however, I cannot help but ask the Minister to take great account of the naturalistic and food and wine routes that represent, in the same way, our history, as well as one of the most important reasons for which tourists come to visit our wonderful country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u62	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u63	Mr President, I would prefer to discuss the substance of tourism and foreign trade, but the measure before us provides for the reorganisation of the ministries, so we should just talk about their administrative organisation. I limit myself, therefore, in essence, to a single question that I address to all of you: what other country, to this world, has the natural landscape heritage, artistic heritage, heritage and food and wine excellence of Italy? The answer is that there is no other country in this world that is up to Italy. Therefore, in this House, we should discuss how to enhance tourism, because it is still not up to which it should be, including in terms of competition with other countries. In my view - and I am referring now to the measure - every Commission must be able to organize itself as it sees fit to achieve the results it intends to achieve. However, there are some aspects of this new organization that do not convince me entirely, especially for two reasons. The first reason is that it has been a year and a half since the last reorganization and we know that it is not just formal steps, but offices and managers who move, procedures and practices that must be set in motion. The lack of continuity of administrative structures slows down decision-making and, above all, management, and the consequences must be borne by tour operators and tourism in the broadest sense. The second objection is, if we wish, a cultural vision and concerns, in particular, the idea of tourism as the other side of cultural heritage. I think that tourism expresses its potential better in a context that does not revolve around the idea of conservation and protection, as it is right that it is for policies on cultural goods. There is also a risk of an approach that, certainly in good faith, is directed towards detailed market segments, while tourism is a mass market, which should look at all audiences, even those who are not interested in experiencing cultural experiences. For these reasons, I would have seen well the tourism connected or the economic ministries, to reaffirm its strategic value in the Italian economy, or the Ministry of Agriculture, in the idea of the Ministry of Made in Italy (I add, made in Südtirol or made in Piedmont or made in Friuli), given the absolute and unparalleled value of national food and wine. Different is the discourse for foreign trade. It was certainly tight in a Ministry such as that for economic development, which must focus on the industrial issue which, as we are also seeing in these hours, is a subject that deserves a dedicated attention. Linking trade to foreign affairs on paper is a positive choice for an economy that lives a lot of exports. However, even in this case some critical issues may arise. The first is that trade relations need not only a sensitivity in relationships, but also a know-how that only an economic ministry can have. Furthermore, I would not like to see a too close link between diplomatic activity and trade relations, because we risk reducing and conditioning our ability to stand at international tables. Of course, even in this case I do not doubt the good faith, I understand the reasons behind it, but I cannot fail to see the problems that, beyond the will of the interpreters, might emerge. I believe, as I said at the beginning and as I said last year, that it is in the power of each government to decide how best to organize to meet its objectives. However, for the reasons I have stated, I shall vote in favour of abstaining, with the hope that my doubts will be overcome by the facts. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and L-SP-PSd'Az, and Senator Fantetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u64	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u65	Mr President, the measure we are dealing with today has the ambition of reorganizing the work of some ministries and introduces some elements in other areas, which we shall see in the next analysis. I also think, as has been said by some previous speakers, that it is not very upbuilding not so much that in each Government there is an internal reorganization of the Ministries (I believe that this is indisputable and falls, as has been said earlier, into the faculty that each Government has to better organize its administrative activity), but that it has become an element of confrontation and political battle the shift of fundamental delegations, as is happening in the case of the relocation of the delegation on tourism. I think it was a mistake to have transferred, in 2018 with Decree No 86, the function of tourism to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and I think it is right today to operate this new shift, which then means substantially, as the provision shows, consequently, a shift of personnel, resources and legal relations, as it is obvious that it happens. The Council of State also expressed doubts in January about the fact that it saw the functions of tourism flowing into the Department of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, so much so that the Council of State has pointed out that the combination in a single department of functions specific to tourism and functions proper to agricultural, food and forestry policy seems to go exactly in the opposite direction to that indicated by constitutional jurisprudence, almost binding tourism to the supply related to agricultural, food and forestry activities alone. I am convinced that the characteristics of our country are those of a country that offers tourists not only the cultural, architectural and artistic heritage, but also the entire heritage of our gastronomy and enology, but I believe that there is a natural contiguity between the artistic and cultural heritage, the enjoyment of our museums, our archaeological parks compared to the whole part that concerns the development of the tourist industry and everything that revolves around tourism. In my opinion, the relocation of this delegation within the Ministry of Cultural Activities is a natural path that comes to completion with this decree. We must not open a debate on tourism because this is a rule that has an administrative character, but I believe that the cultural policies of our country must be those that then determine the ability to be attractive as a country. It is closely related; I see no alternative to this to this reflection. Within the measure, however, there are important aspects that concern the improvement of the usability of our cultural heritage. For example, some articles have been introduced that we have not talked about which highlight the possibility of allocating the proceeds of ticket sales not only, as was the case up to now, for the interventions in safety and conservation or for the functioning of the institutions and places of culture, but also to improve their enjoyment, being able to guarantee greater openings (extraordinary and night) and widening the time slots and visiting days. In fact, our cultural heritage is extraordinary, but in some cases - I am not talking about the big cities, but about the middle and small centres - there are problems with regard to the possibility of guaranteeing the use of that heritage. Thus it is not necessary to be scandalized that there is a society in house, which was first seen as a place of waste of public resources, called Art, work and services (ALES), which deals with activities of reception and supervision of museums, state archaeological parks and other institutes and places of culture, because where there are no conditions to use personnel of the Ministry, it is evident that those places must be put in condition to be usable by visitors and citizens. As administrators - because in addition to perhaps having past stories of administrators, we are as parliamentarians - we must understand that the functioning of cultural institutions occurs also through the need of personnel who operate in those structures: if there is not, we cannot invent it and it is normal that we use instrumental societies as well. I think that the measure has as a positive aspect the transition of the international trade function and commercial policies in the field of internationalization of the business system from the Ministry of Economic Development to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Among other things, that chapter of expenditure had as its predominant aspect the support for the internationalization of companies and made in Italy and I believe that that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the natural place in which to carry out this political and administrative action at its best. The last aspect is the fact that in Article 3, the remodulation of the appropriations for the revision of the roles and careers of the Police and Armed Forces, by increasing them, with Article 3-a, by an additional EUR 60 million per year. I believe that this is a gesture of respect and attention to the armed and police forces, as well as the provision of cover for the extraordinary work related to the Safe Roads operation. In fact, the operation that was born in 2017 - and that has been confirmed by the recent Governments - to devote the Armed Forces also to the protection of the territory and public order, was a good action, reconfirmed in these years, but it was necessary to put the resources. Otherwise we use these actions, that is, a political part has done so, to make a lot of propaganda, while we know well that the armed forces to carry out those functions often have to do overtime for which cover must be provided, if we do not want to be more propaganda operations than real. To this end, there will be € 4.645,000: I believe that this is a very fair attention to our Armed Forces and the Police Corps. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u66	I greet, on behalf of the House, a delegation of Mayors of Polesine, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the reorganization of the ministries. But what does it mean to reorganize the ministries? Is there an organic plan to optimize resources? Not at all, or at least we don't know. Are you trying to make everything leaner and more efficient? Not that either. The proposal that we are debating today is based on the transhumance of certain competences due to the change of some tenants in the direction of the various ministries, thus thinking of having people acquire skills automatically. It is not clear what criteria this is based on. It seems more personal than those who today hold the leadership of these Ministries than a requirement based on particular strategies or a vision for objectives (I refer specifically to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities). The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation in International Trade and Internationalization of the Country System, as stated in the title of Article 2, is mentioned. From an agricultural point of view, a vision that interests me most as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I wonder whether Minister Di Maio is aware that the export of agricultural products and the food industry recorded an active balance of almost 42,000 million goods in 2018. Overall, exports of agricultural products and products from the food industry in 2018 were +1.2% compared to 2017, or €4.8 billion. Data that show that Italy has an extraordinary heritage of typical agricultural and food to be valued. The transfer to the MAEC of the role of defining the strategies and interventions of commercial and promotional policy with foreign countries can represent an opportunity or a disadvantage for the agricultural sector, if it will not be guaranteed efficiency and penetration capacity on the foreign market, also - I repeat: also - through a careful evaluation of international agreements and the management of the sensitive dossier related to US duties. For these reasons, without an involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture for the definition of strategies and interventions of commercial and promotional policy abroad, with the identification of professional experts in agricultural and agri-food productions to be included in the diplomatic network in support of export itself, there is a risk of failure. But, if this is the Government's intention, I come back to the question whether Minister Di Maio knows this data and whether, above all, he has the sensitivity and the ability to grasp these nuances. A minister who passes from economic development - where he has not solved any of the business crises that he has found, I say none - to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with what competence and with what objectives will he follow these matters to direct foreign trade policy? What we are witnessing today is a system of organizational actions that risk resetting foreign trade policies. We are now talking about tourism, in particular the transfer of this competence from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy to that of cultural goods. I repeat again: perhaps it is more a substitute for Minister Franceschini than a real necessity. The fact that tourism automatically approaches the Ministry of Cultural Heritage is not and cannot be taken for granted, as it is a mistake to think that being able to manage the vast majority of the world's cultural assets in our country means being able to implement tourist policies. Just think of what the Ministry of Cultural Heritage has done to date for tourism promotion: has it brought significant results? Have you studied and applied an integrated plan between the territories? None of this. It simply delegated management to the various territorial structures or individual initiatives, public or private, without providing the sector with a national strategic plan. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to have a Colosseum for serious tourism policies. To be honest, when we were proposed to shift the skills of tourism to the Ministry of Agriculture, we were not entirely convinced, but we read in this passage an interesting element of discontinuity compared to the failed policies carried out until then. An opportunity not by chance flanked by a strategic asset of our trade balance, such as Made in Italy and the agro-food sector, and a vision according to which the phenomenon of tourism is not only linked to the knowledge and enhancement of our historical and artistic heritage, but also to the agricultural landscape. The presence of foreign tourists in rural areas and the consumption by them of agricultural products contribute to the rebalancing of the agricultural balance and the rediscovery of the rural world and its culture through the valorization of local products. It is no coincidence that Law No 96 of 2006 (Protection and exploitation of agritourism activities carried out by the agricultural company) favours the multifunctional role of agriculture, strongly supported by the European Union as an essential element of the so-called European model of agriculture. It is significant - I would like to mention this - that we were told a few days ago during a hearing in the Committee on Agriculture: at the Truffle Fair in Alba about 20 million products are sold and there is a tourist circuit of about 120 million. A proof of how often agri-food is a positive flywheel for tourism flows. Not only that; according to the report on Italian food and wine tourism 2019, about 45 percent of tourists, against 21 percent of 2016, made a trip to Italy with the motivation to enjoy the beauties of the landscape and the food and wine experience related to it; in the last year the agricultural and tourism sector have recorded an important growth, helping to provide a vision of an Italy system that aims to represent all over the world its excellence and specificity. Given these elements, we wonder, beyond our positions on the issue: what were the objective data that demonstrated that the combination of tourism and agriculture did not work? There aren't any. That is why we voted against this assumption in the Committee on Agriculture. On that occasion, on the contrary, I asked to wait at least for the data of this year of work, in order to understand whether this new structure had produced positive elements or not, whether the trend of the sector was growing or not. Invitation not accepted. The only thing we have to hope for is that the policy of tourism promotion, for which MIBACT will be responsible again, enhances, perhaps in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, also the promotion of the agricultural landscape, the historical-cultural traditions, the recovery of peasant skills and the value that food assumes in certain contexts. But why all this haste? What are the government's plans? We don't know. We don't know anything. No plan, no strategy. We of Brothers of Italy, on the other hand, consider it desirable that we should consider the establishment of an ad hoc Ministry of Tourism, precisely with the aim of strengthening the link between the food and wine excellence of our nation, the territory and tourism. It is no coincidence that we have tabled a specific bill. The bill more Italy indicates in tourism a lever to solve the economy of our nation. It is planned, precisely, to set up a more agile, autonomous Ministry of Tourism, with its own resources, a fund for the support of the tourist offer and the establishment of a national high-training school for the improvement of the training provision of the professional institutes of state in the sector. Finally, I would like to address the Presidency directly. We note, unfortunately, the continuation of a bad habit born in the last Government: that of including in a specific bill such as this, subjects of very different subjects. In this respect, I would remind you of the Presidency's invitation to the previous Government to write draft laws with articles on homogeneous subjects. I would call for more attention to be paid to this issue again. We would like to avoid situations where we should feel embarrassed not to vote on measures that we consider right, as in the case of this measure, of which we believe positive - even if not fully satisfactory - the actions aimed at financing the Police and Armed Forces for the extraordinary work done by men and women in the Safe Roads operation, while we judge negatively, as already explained, the transhumance of delegations between one Ministry and the other. In conclusion, we are witnessing a measure without any strategy and without any future vision, but with only one clear objective: to try to please everyone to make this Government survive and with the aim of not returning to make the citizens vote to prevent the victory of the center-right. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u68	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the School including Alessandro Manzoni in Amorosi, in the province of Benevento, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the first acts of the previous Government, with Decree-Law No 86 of 2018, it was chosen to change the competences of certain Ministries and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Among these changes, I would like to stress here the decision, already commented on by previous interventions, which is difficult to understand culturally and economically, as well as strategically, to transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies, the functions of tourism that were exercised by MIBACT. It was a choice that did not see in the valorization of artistic and cultural assets an element of growth of the country. In fact, the ratio underlying the norm was unmotivable, considering that with that choice was severed the link, fundamental for our country, between tourism and culture. Now the letter T has returned to its natural place: the MIBACT, precisely. And it is right that this is so, since tourism has grown enormously in recent years and will still grow since Italy is the first desired destination of travel for all the tourists of the world. The reason why putting together culture and tourism, in Italy, maybe there is no need to explain it or at least there should be no need. Culture is our identity, it is the decisive added value that we can put in global competition in all types of tourism. No one in the world has the cultural opportunity to link to other forms of tourism an architectural, museum and pictorial heritage like ours, which makes our country enormously more competitive in this respect than international competition. It was, in fact, decidedly unbelievable to define the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy "Ministry of Made in Italy," as indicated in the explanatory report of the decree. If the intention of the previous government was to include tourism among the strategic subjects for the economic development of the country, the Ministry of reference should not have been that of agricultural food and forestry policies, but so much so. Then it was decided to make a choice of which it is difficult to understand the meaning, because it seemed not to have so much at heart the development of the country system. This choice seemed to lie, above all, in the desire to exploit - those yes - the competences and perhaps the role of the Minister protempore, rather than in the objective of ensuring an orderly and efficient institutional structure. It is certainly not my intention to diminish the wine and food interest in the typical products that accompany the tourist choices, but it is certainly not possible to believe that this can be the primary reason: we certainly cannot say that Parma is ham and parmesan, nor that Taormina or Syracuse are known only for oranges. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There was a clear reason why, in June 2013, the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities was entrusted with the competence of tourism: MIBAC became MIBACT, proposing a fruitful fusion between culture and tourism. A series of decrees then gradually organized the structure of the Dicastery, defining the total number of general management offices, central and peripheral. Numerous interventions have been carried out to give vitality and efficiency to the system of cultural goods, one of the main elements of strength of our country that has a very particular characteristic, that of being spread throughout the national territory. It is precisely this wide spread that has made the link between goods and cultural activities important to tourism, the latter entrusted, as we know, to the regional system. The risk of fragmentation, very high for both systems, has prompted the Ministry of Cultural Heritage to work with particular attention to overcome the discrepancies in the management of the valorization of cultural heritage, as well as tourism, in the common awareness that the tourist and cultural heritage represent an important asset of our country, which must be valued in order to be increasingly known, exploited and, precisely for this reason, protected. I would like to remind you of the application of Article 9 of the Constitution, which has found concrete implementation in some specific projects: the rediscovery of the paths, the great guidelines of European connection; the so-called minor villages, which represent most of the human settlements in our territory, perhaps less known cultural destinations, between small towns and countries characterized, however, by a rich historical and cultural heritage, become ideal destinations for the discovery of alternative tourism, in some way more peaceful and sustainable, unlike the traditional cities of art, often too crowded. Finally, the designation of the Italian capitals of culture, capable of unifying extraordinary resources within small and medium-sized cities of our territory, born with the aim of enhancing cultural and landscape heritage and improving services for tourists. All this work has been more than a mere redistribution of tasks or reordering of skills, because the national dimension of cultural heritage is really one of the living forces on which we can build the cultural, social and economic development of our country. For this reason we believe, in conclusion, that this decree-law healthy the vulnus created by the previous order, with which the functions of the MIBACT in the matter of tourism were transferred to the Ministry of agricultural food and forestry policies. It is good, therefore, that we return to the value of the work carried out that has brought positive results both on the cultural level, both on the economic side of our country, and to the promotion of its image abroad. We believe that this permanent choice to unite culture and tourism in Italy should be strengthened; a natural and shared choice in recent years with the Italian regions - I stress - beyond their political color, which led to the elaboration of a path shared with all the actors of the strategic plan of tourism. In fact, the results have arrived and we will work to ensure that they continue to increase [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u70	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to deal with the reorganization of the ministries from an agricultural point of view, partly because the colleagues of the League who preceded me have already dealt with this issue at 360 degrees politically and in a structural way. I am referring to my fellow Members, Mr Augussori, Mr Pazzaglini, Mr Pepe and Mr Bergesio, who have really entered into this matter and have made it clear to the House that this measure is absurd. In order to better understand this absurdity, I would like to remind those who are following us at this time that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy is taking away the competence in the field of tourism. I consider this absurd because at last agriculture had taken a fair path that had led it to live a happy time. In fact, all the major trade associations in the agricultural world (Coldiretti, Confagricoltura, CIA) had certified that the export of our agricultural products, made in Italy, since 2018 has gone into a continuous growth: we had a 3% increase in 2018, then, month after month, we arrived at increases of 4, 5, 6, 7 percent until reaching 11 percent in the middle of this year. This means that the measure worked. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, when Minister Centinario and our secretary Salvini, together with our former 5 Star friends, had combined the skills in agriculture and tourism, more than anyone had wondered what they had invented and, instead, we saw that it was a right choice, which brought these results. Indeed, if we want to raise our farmers' incomes, if we want more money to remain in their pockets, we must ensure that our products are sold at a higher price, so that farmers' incomes can increase. This has proved a winning path, unlike what had happened in previous years: the years from 2014 to 2018, when Martina was minister of agricultural food and forestry policies, are not very happily remembered by our farmers. It has been difficult years, in which our products were sold on national and international markets, in which the previous governments of the Democratic Party, to which Minister Martina belongs, were subject to European directives. And, above all, Italian products suffered from the strong competition of all countries, non-European and even European, who safely imported their own in the Italian market. This seems absolutely absurd to us, because - many consumers may not know, but we do - our tomatoes come from Spain, while broccoli even from China. It seems absurd to us that parsley is imported from Vietnam, peas from Kenya and melons from the Dominican Republic. This was only because the Government, marked Martina and the Democratic Party, made it possible. Then came Minister Centinario and the League and we focused on the enhancement of the products made in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We wanted to make sure that, finally, the products of Made in Italy had a label. It seemed to be the discovery of hot water and impossible to achieve, but only because the previous Democratic Party governments had never wanted to do so. The Government of the League has succeeded in adopting in six months a measure that requires that on the label of the products there be written name and identity. I repeat, it was not an impossible thing to do, since we succeeded. The minister Centinario then made another beautiful discovery in relation to the products of Made in Italy, excellence known all over the world, as well as the Mediterranean diet, immaterial heritage of humanity and envied by everyone. We decided to let tourists taste our products. The tourists who come to our country make a journey between culture and our artistic beauties and we took advantage of the opportunity to let them taste the exceptional products of our agro-food sector. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This turned out to be a fantastic idea. In fact, tourists make a journey through our artistic beauties, but also in taste, a kind of journey on the journey to savor the beauty, taste and excellence of our agri-food products. I must say that the idea worked because the tourists who arrive in our country, taste and appreciate our products and, when they return home, order them to have them in their own country. This led to an increase in exports of up to 11 percent compared to 2007. Some say it was a coincidence, but then explain to me why this increase coincided exactly with the arrival of Minister Centinario and the Government with the League? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Clearly, we all know what happened in August this year. A new government was born and a division of agriculture and tourism took place between Minister Bellanova and Minister Franceschini. In my opinion, he won those who were most hungry, in the sense that Minister Franceschini was probably more hungry than Minister Bellanova and managed to take home the tourism sector too. In my opinion, Minister Bellanova today has considerable problems in the management of the Ministry of Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies. Last Monday we met in a conference on agriculture 4.0 organized by Confagricoltura and I heard her talk enthusiastically about how she will solve all the problems of Italian agriculture. He spoke about how he will address the issue of tariffs, which is a huge problem; he spoke about climate change and also about what, in my opinion, is a huge problem: mechanical innovation in agriculture. We were all happy to hear you say that, but then, when I returned to the Senate and, talking to my colleagues in the Budget Committee, I asked what was in the budget as far as agriculture is concerned, they replied that there was absolutely nothing. And then, dear Minister Bellanova, I think we need to be realistic, because for the challenges we will face, especially with regard to the economic problem of the duties introduced by the President of the United States Trump, the solution does not go through a simple visit to the United States, and we do not even know with whom. I believe that cover should be made available for all damage caused not by farmers in this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But from this Europe, which is tyrant, since someone else's faults fall on us as farmers. Climate change is also a great problem: I am convinced that agriculture is a part of the solution for both blame and solutions in climate change, but we need resources and investments for reclamation, as far as large rainfall is concerned, which are increasingly coming, but above all also for irrigation. Climate change causes irrigation problems and Italy is unfortunately in the south of Europe, so it is suffering more than others the consequences of these changes. I believe that Minister Bellanova, but also this whole group, from right to left, and we all have to be strong and careful, especially when negotiating the CAP, because there is absolutely no good air for transfers to Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u72	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before reorganizing and reorganizing the Ministries, this Government should, with responsibility and awareness, rearrange its ideas. That's nice. I always look at Senator Laus and inspire me. This government should reorganise and reorder its thoughts first of all in order to implement an organic plan of interventions for a country that was first in many sectors and that is now climbing the rankings to the contrary. We were the first in the production of oil and now we are at least third, as well as in the recycling system and so on. This government certainly knows the famous commutative property, so changing the order of factors or addends the result does not change. It is not transitive, but commutative, colleagues, go and read it. However, this government certainly knows the very famous commutative property, as we have said, and continues to stir up the cards thinking that their value changes. With all the problems that our country is experiencing, from the ILVA to xylella, to the Asian bug (I take advantage of it to greet the mayors of Polesine who are suffering this last heavy problem), from the hydrogeological failure to unemployment, from immigration to security, to the question of duties on foreign trade, one of the first measures that also the Government Count II carries forward is another time the so-called reorganization or reorganization - that is said to be desired - of the Ministries and does so once again, balling ministerial delegations from here and there as in a game of ping-pong, with a disturbing lightness. This government believes it solves the problems once again by inventing affectionate titles, empty measures without structural and structured content and above all without putting money into it. Suffice it to say that 600 implementing decrees lie still in the swamp of the ministerial bureaucracy, dating back to the Government Count I, Gentiloni Silveri, Renzi and even the Letta Government. And what does the Count II Government, following Count I, do for the first act? He rearranges the Ministries that he himself had already rearranged previously; as if Paperina called Donald to move the furniture to every step pushed. Make peace with your brains! Reorder and reorganize your ideas. Then again, of course, in the manner of the decree, adding government amendments to amendments until the last second, even when I am talking to the legislative offices, new changes will be coming from the government and there is no talk of ILVA. You don't run to shelter right away, with 10,000 families at risk of work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and the environmental plan blocked. At this moment came the news of agency according to which the ArcelorMittal is meeting President Conte with six representatives of the Government to leave, because eliminating legal protection was an essential prerequisite and we have also tabled an amendment to this provision; at least accept the proposals, make an act of humility, for once, instead of always using hateful arrogance. Listening is synonymous with intelligence, as well as changing your mind not to look like a paracarriage. You don't do that, you don't work like that; in any office you'd be fired in the log! The decrees with urgency and necessity. But what urgency and necessity? Urgentness and necessity probably derive only from the need to create a system not of partitions, but of repartitions, according to logics of party and ideological belonging. It seems to me that the government is acting like a whimsical little boy who says "this is mine," this is yours, without realizing that intervening on the organization of the state and the functioning of the same has significant consequences for the whole country system, for every type of sector and activity that acts within it. This Government has not understood what Italy needs, it has not understood that Italy needs to be left in peace, to be left quiet to work, to produce, to make system, because so far with the Jacobine system, with the superficial system that characterized the actions of the Government Count I and the Government Count II, Italy is regressing in a worrying way. If, in fact, the country with its capacity for resilience, strength and Italian ingenuity, up to now has managed to move on despite you, now it is likely to start to lose some breath and that we cannot allow it. It is commonplace to say that Italy is a country without raw materials. We do not stop remembering and shouting that the raw material of Italy is Italy [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , with its landscape, with its villages, with its monuments, with its cultural works, with its food and wine products and catering, with its music, with the ingenuity of its artisans, entrepreneurs and artists, with its manufacture, its production, with its best school system in the world and with its welfare health system, which leaves no one behind, with its mayors, with our Forces of Order to guarantee security and peace, with its brand, that words made in Italy, which has become the third most famous brand in the world. A brand that represents a real intangible infrastructure, but we can't even make a road, what we want to do immaterial infrastructure. What does this government do? He reorganizes the Ministries, "posicchiando" very important delegations within Dicasteries already overgrown enough to be efficient in following in the best way other sectors. In particular, I am referring to tourism and foreign trade. Tourism, Made in Italy and foreign trade deserve a dedicated Dicastery with a portfolio, because it would be a portfolio not of expenditure, but of investment, as we are asking for with our amendments. That is why we will fight and this would be the first of our actions if we were in the government and are not my words. I hope everyone remembers that from 2009 to 2011 the Ministry of Tourism had already constituted it the Berlusconi Government. This is how I remember, en passant, the tourism figures: 42 billion spent by the 61 million foreign tourists in Italy. Foreign trade: export to Italy is worth 460 billion, import 424, with an asset balance of 39 billion. Italy is in ninth place for world exports, and while today the MISE, the ICE (Institute for Foreign Trade) and SACE are involved, would we like to give back its powers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation? Do we remember who went from MISE to Foreign Affairs? We all remember that, don't we? That minister Di Maio who, after having made disasters to the Italian economy and work (think of the income of citizenship, the ILVA and the open tables while the companies close), now wants to regain a series of skills on a sector that must be left in peace. I repeat, it must be left alone. Feed the monkey and don't touch anything, as the story says (if you don't know her, then I'll tell you). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want to move the management of international trade, the promotion of Made in Italy, the signature on the main agreements of a commercial nature, such as that for the Silk Road in Italy from MISE to Foreign Affairs, while the increase of American duties is realized with a tariff of 25% for the Roman pecorino, for the Parmesan Reggiano, for the Grana Padano, for the provolone and for the ham and who knows what else. According to estimates by Coldiretti and industry associations, half a billion food exports would be affected. Those who export cannot be faced with a situation of uncertainty in which one does not understand which of the two Ministries does what. It's madness, we ask for help: we thought we got rid of Minister Di Maio sending him abroad and instead it still looms over us. This government without courage and vision must be blocked. Infrastructures: all still blocked except Naples-Bari, the third pass of Genoa and my Ponte San Michele between Calusco and Paderno. For the rest there is no more talk of anything. According to the ANCE, we have 574 works blocked for 39 billion euros. A little parenthesis. It is this morning the news that the small and very small Italian municipalities are desperate because the financing that was provided in another decree-law saves small Municipalities, save this, save that other, will not give a nice tube of nothing to the small and very small Italian Municipalities. Therefore, the UNCEM is on the brink of war. As for law enforcement, what am I gonna tell you? Article 5, which redefines the Ministry of the Environment, changes the wording: from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of the Environment and the ecological transition: wonderful title. We are working on the decree-climate law that is still empty and without financial resources. There is a tax on plastic, not even for purpose: the government is an environmentalist to cash with the money of the Italians, while instead it would need scientific work. Mr President, I should like to conclude but I would ask that the written text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. GALLONE (FI-BP). Do you know what the real urgency and the real necessity for which an immediate decree would be needed? I also have the title: the decree send them home. We have to send you home, save the country from the muddy you put it in and let it finally run and grow as it is trying to do, despite you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u75	Mr President, I want to start with the return of certain functions of tourism to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, because our hope is that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities will also be able to implement its function of monitoring and monitoring the dynamics of tourism and the impact they can have on our cultural heritage. I'll explain. We read the Istat data of 2018 according to which we had 429 million tourists in Italy, with an increase of 2 percent compared to 2017. Three out of four cultural tourists are concentrated in the first ten cities of art in Italy, with 84 million visitors out of 113. Tourism in small villages stands at 95 million visitors in 2018 and about 23 million arrivals. It is clear that everyone is pleased to read this data, but I would also like to draw attention to some aspects related to these data on which, in my opinion, we are called to compare and to focus our attention. First of all, congestion, because it is undeniable that some of our cities of art live in a situation of congestion. We must ask ourselves what is the quality of the tourist experience in these cities of art, what is the quality of the enjoyment of our artistic and cultural heritage. We must also ask ourselves, because we are opening this new phase of green new deal and therefore we talk a lot about sustainability, what we can do or how much this can impact on sustainability and therefore on the quality of life in cities of art, as well as how to ensure the protection and conservation of our great artistic and landscape heritage. In particular, I would question our historical centers because in some cities of art, a destination of important tourist flows, we are witnessing a progressive transformation of their face, a progressive transformation of historical centers into theme parks, in global Disneyland where it is increasingly difficult to recognize the local cultural sign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To this I would add that we should also start to think about implementing the promotion of widespread tourism strategies, both in view of the decongestion of the great cities of art, and in view of a better quality of the tourist experience and to give impetus to the cultural and social enhancement of peripheral areas compared to those of the great cities of art, but certainly no less rich, from a cultural and landscape point of view. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We who travel a little 'long and wide, we know that on our peninsula there is a fabric rich in artistic, architectural, landscape, gastronomic culture, culinary, manufacturing related to the local handicrafts that cannot be neglected, that must be implemented, must also be promoted with the aim of decongestantizing the big centers and making them talk to the smaller centers. In fact, in the smaller centers, where we may think there are minor attractions, measuring such attractions with the meter of affection and love that the individual citizen has towards his own heritage, we realize that all the beauties that we consider to be minor jump to the top of the ranking, because for us, for our history and for our culture, mean so much. So we come to the importance of protection and conservation, to the importance of enhancing the professions of the world of cultural goods in order to put the competent people in the right place and to guard this great heritage. In fact, if our heritage were to deteriorate, we should ask ourselves what experience tourists will come to make in Italy. When I talk about heritage, I do so at 360 degrees and I refer to all the professions related to it that are still waiting for an adequate appreciation of their figure and their competence. Finally, I would like to mention the transfer to the MAECI of some functions of the Ministry of Economic Development, i.e. the commercial and promotional political strategies with foreign countries and the development of the internationalization of the country-system. I would like to remind you that all these things are possible where we are increasingly committed to promoting the network of Italian schools abroad, the Italian departments within foreign universities and all the activities of our Italian cultural institutions abroad. In fact, it is through the promotion, diffusion and strengthening of the circulation and knowledge of our culture through these institutions that we generate, even in citizens living in other countries, the so-called hunger of Italy, the desire to come to Italy to discover directly the cultural and landscape beauties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore appeal to our Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to ensure that these two activities, which cannot be untied at all, go hand in hand. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u76	The general debate is closed. As agreed between the groups, the follow-up to the examination of the measure will take place at 2.30 p.m., after the opinions of the Budget Commission have been received.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u77	The next item is: In accordance with Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the draft budget law, the President shall inform the President. I communicate that the Presidency - and it is in distribution - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1586 concerning: State budget for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022 The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the draft budget law for 2020 and for the three-year period 2020-2022, pursuant to and for the effects of Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Regulation - after consulting the representative of the Government - reaches the following conclusions. With regard to the verification referred to in Article 126, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, it should be recalled that the reform of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, introduced by Law No 163, 4 August 2016, in implementation of Article 15 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, has brought some innovations to the accounting discipline, which they found for the first time implemented during the 2017 budgetary session. For the draft budget law, however, unlike what was the case for the law of stability, there is no provision for financial cover, since the State budget, pursuant to Article 14 of Law No 243 of 2012, is subject to a rule of balance, by which the value of the net balance to be financed or to be used is linked to the programmatic path established for the objectives of public finance. This consistency must be taken into account both in the technical report and in the technical-illustrious note annexed to the draft budget law, pursuant to Article 21 (12) (a) (c) and (12) (a) of Law No 196 of 2009. In the light of these criteria, it is noted that the maneuver, both with regard to its amount and to the composition of the same between the different measures of income and expenditure, including those destined to find the resources to cover the intervention, is aimed at pursuing the path of fiscal consolidation indicated in the Note of update of the Document of Economy and Finance 2019 adopted by the Government on 30 September last and approved by the Senate on the following 9 October. With the report to the Parliament attached to the Update Note of the 2019 Economy and Finance Document, the Government has in fact requested permission to remodel the path of approach to the medium-term objective (OMT). The nominal net debt was therefore set at 2.2% of GDP in 2020, 1.8% of GDP in 2021 and 1.4% of GDP in 2022. With regard to programme financial profiles, the technical report sets out a correlation table between the net balance to be financed and the public administration account, which represents the consistency between the balances relating to the State budget and the policy objective set out in the DEF Update Note. It is essentially the link between the net balance to be financed from the State budget, as a result of the general overview of the draft budget, and the net programmatic debt of the State, i.e. including the effects of the public finance manoeuvre on the state sector, and the link between the said net debt and that of the general government as a whole. In short, it appears that the value of the net balance to be financed from the draft budget law, in line with the framework of public finance compatibility, could increase to €79.5 billion in 2020, €56.5 billion in 2021 and €37.5 billion in 2022. The corresponding net balance to be financed from cash may increase to EUR 129 billion in 2020, EUR 109.5 billion in 2021 and EUR 87.5 billion in 2022. These values are consistent with those indicated in the parliamentary resolutions approving the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document. It is therefore proposed to submit to the attention of the President of the Senate an opinion of nulla preclude in relation to the profiles referred to in Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the verification of its own content, it should be recalled that Article 21 of Law No 196 of 2009, in implementation of Article 15, paragraph 2, of Law No 243 of 2012, places precise limits on the content of the first section of the draft budget law. Therefore, the following observations shall be made for the purposes of the presidential determinations referred to in Article 126 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. There are no explicit delegation rules within the meaning of Article 77 of the Constitution. With regard to the rules of a legal nature and, moreover, without financial effects, Article 49, paragraphs 2 and 3, concerning, respectively, the duties of the staff of the Department of the penitentiary administration and the functions of director of the offices of external criminal execution. Finally, there are no rules of obvious localistic or micro-sectoral character. Pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Regulation, examined the draft budget law for 2020, taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission and taken note of the Government's position, I announce that the bill appears as a whole in line with the requirements of Law No 196 of 31 December 2009 on accounting and public finance, with regard to the prohibition of introducing rules of an orderly or organiser nature, with the exception of the provisions indicated in that opinion. I therefore have the deletion of these provisions, which will constitute an independent bill. The deadline for sending Commission reports to the 5th Commission, which has already been set for Monday 11 November, is Tuesday 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u78	I refer the draft law No 1586 (State budget for the financial year 2020 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022) to the 5th Commission, in the referent, with the opinion of all other permanent Commissions, as well as the parliamentary committees on regional issues. Commissions are authorised to convene or supplement their agendas. I suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m., when we shall resume with the reply of the rapporteur and the Government. (The sitting was suspended at 13.20 a.m. and resumed at 14.38 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u79	I note that the Budget Commission has not yet completed its work. The sitting is therefore suspended and will resume at 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.38 p.m. and resumed at 15.46 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u80	Mr President, I will just make a brief reply on some of the issues that have emerged during the general debate. The measures provided for in the measure in our examination are aimed at making the action of the Government more efficient on the basis of certain needs felt at institutional level and it is necessary to approve these measures, already included in the decree, quickly in order to allow the various ministries to develop in an organic way the activity of competence. The forecast that tourism will return within the remit of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage is very important. The decision to move it to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy had made hope for a boost to the sector, but, due to complications of bureaucratic procedures and decisions, which involved a necessary involvement of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, this did not happen. With the measure under consideration, tourism is again perceived as a real cultural asset by the Italian State. The transfer of the functions exercised in this field by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, in fact, does not represent a mere passage of personnel or instrumental resources between the two Dicasteries, but the political will to bind and therefore invest on two factors - culture and tourism - nerves for the development of our Country. To bring tourism back to the competence of the Ministry of Culture, in other words, it appears a linear political passage considered not only the high amount of goods or cultural places on which the Italian landscape can count, but also testifies to the will of this Government and this majority to invest a lot in this sector. The investment on culture, moreover, is not only necessary but makes the country grow, helps export and is thus linked to the strategies of promotional policy with foreign countries, the latter also favored by the work of the Italian chambers of commerce abroad, on which the Ministry of Economic Development continues to supervise, following the approval of amendment 2,1000 approved yesterday in the Commission. Born and developed as a point of collection of Italian business communities, the Italian chambers of commerce abroad have then consolidated over time to represent a very important flywheel for the internationalization of Italian companies. Finally, having put all foreign trade policies under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will allow our country to put in place a more effective and efficient action especially in the protection of Made in Italy in the world. Let's talk about the excellence of our entrepreneurs in fields such as food and wine, mechanics, pharmaceuticals. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs recently reported, our ambassadors every day, with their network of embassies and consulates, promote internationally these peculiarities of our country. Italian exports have also increased in these months when the situation in Europe is not the best, with Germany's economy not going well. But it is not enough: to face the difficulties that exist we must look out of Europe: to the East of the world, to the Middle East, but also to the African countries with flourishing economies or which are developing. The measures provided for in this measure allow for such developments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u81	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u82	Mr President, the work has undoubtedly been intense and the rapporteur has tried to sum up the framework of the Commission's work, which has been very active and proactive. It is clear that this is an approach. I would like to say this to my fellow Members who have listened with pleasure this morning to the criticisms, which are clearly born from a certain point of view, which almost a year ago had led them to make a different choice of approach. We are talking about choices of vision: here is presented a different vision that I think can be given political dignity. In the past a different vision and approach had been presented, if we want to change the opposite of what was before: let us remember that some of the changes implemented here were already planned for years and only in the fourteen months of the previous government had seen a different phase. I repeat, this is an approach; we have said so many times in today's debate. What is perhaps most missing has been highlighted, and this does not concern the majority and opposition in their distinctions, but should understand everyone as a whole: the ability to do synergy. The Ministries cannot be considered monads, and all those who have ruled know that. In this House, all forces have had experience of government, regardless of the situation in which they are now. It is clear that the more you help the Ministries to do synergy and the more the country-system has strength. Therefore, the vision of bringing tourism together with the powers of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, removing it from the Ministry of Agricultural Policies and bringing it back to what, from the point of view of this Government, is its legitimate home, makes this sense. The vision of integrating foreign trade into the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with all its peculiarities with regard to diplomacy which is important and which is linked to this type of development, is part of this framework aimed at a greater possibility of teaming and synergy. I therefore appreciate the speeches, also passionate, that colleagues have made to defend and support this approach and therefore, respecting this approach, I would like to reiterate that the overall fruit of the work carried out by the Commission, in the presence of the Government that clearly listened with pleasure and interest, nevertheless gives rise to a vision of the country system that, within the decree-law to our examination, has been further enriched by the contributions given. So there are reasons. It is not simply a random choice or born from the taste of one minister rather than another. It is a choice of vision and overall picture. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency, in accordance with the criteria already adopted by the Presidency of the 1st standing Commission during its examination, declares that amendments 1.0.1, 3.2, 3.0.1, 3.0.2, 4.13, 6.0.1, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.0.1, 7.0.20 [already 7.0.2 (text 2) A], 7.0.5, 7.0.6, 7.0.7 and 7.0.200, as they are unrelated to the content of the decree-law under consideration. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, the Presidency declares the sub-amendments 1.0,700/2, 2,1000/100, 3.0,1000/100, 4,2000 (correct text)/100 and 4,2000 (correct text)/101 inadmissible as they do not affect the text of the amendment to which they refer. In accordance with the provisions already laid down in the Commission, sub-amendments 1.0.10000/29, 1.0.10000/30, 1.0.10000/31, 1.0.10000/32, 1.0.10000/33, 4.2000 (correct text)/5, 4.2000 (correct text)/6 and 4.2000 (correct text)/7 are also inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to explain in particular Amendment 1.1, which calls for the deletion of Article 1 in full immediately, for the reasons we have already set out in the general debate. The operation carried out by this Government goes in the opposite direction to what had been done by the previous one, which had strongly wanted to combine the potential of tourism with the potential of agriculture. As we said before, in fact, Italy does not have everywhere the Colosseum, the Verona Arena, the great monuments. We have at our disposal a landscape heritage that must only wait to be valued. We have a heritage made of landscapes, food and wine companies and wine companies, which can represent a beautiful tourist offer. The operations that have been carried out by Minister Centinario today are in a limbo: it is not even known what purpose they will be able to do, so much so that the agenda presented by Senator Bergesio and other senators has been rejected in the Commission, with which it was asked to be able to establish a collaboration between the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy in order to carry out these very important projects, such as the decree on wine tourism, which had a great impact, or the agreement signed between Confagricolia and the Association of Italian Historical Houses, just to name a few. These are planned projects, resources allocated, plans already begun, which are now in a Kafkian situation. The government is asked to review its position completely. I ask the whole House to make a conscious assessment, because destroying the work done only a year ago, only on a demagogic issue, is truly an action of total irresponsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u85	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u86	Mr President, I am speaking here on Amendments 2.2, 2.5 and 2.8, which we have tabled in order to give a sense of our attempt to improve a measure which is unfortunately very badly born. In particular, in these amendments we try to maintain a unity with what was the Ministry of Foreign Trade - then, in any case, merged with the Ministry of Economic Development - in this new amalgamation - which I would call annexation - to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an annexation that has the sole purpose of taking over the resources of the promotion of the Ministry of Economic Development. In fact, unlike what has been done in other countries and unlike what he had thought to realize the same Berlusconi Government, when Berlusconi held for himself, as an interim, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in this case it is not a matter of merging the Ministries, however giving a specific function to the professionalism of those who have been and who are executives and employees of the Ministry of Economic Development in the area of internationalization. Here it is simply the "snap" of money - which is also considerable - intended to promote Italian companies and the dispersion of professionalism within what is the macro-Dicastery of Foreign Affairs, so that there will be nothing left of foreign trade, there will be nothing left of what for us Italians and for our country is an absolutely fundamental function of our economic system, which is precisely called for exports. With these amendments we try at least to maintain the unity and professionalism of those who for years - in some cases for decades - have dedicated themselves to the promotion of companies and the internationalization of the Italian economic system, with a particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which instead will see totally canceled their ambition and their opportunities within that macro-Dicastery of Foreign Affairs, in which there are basically no such specific professionalism. That is why we ask the House to approve at least these amendments, in an attempt to maintain an anchor with small and medium-sized enterprises and in an attempt to maintain the professionalism thus refined over time by the employees of the former Ministry of Foreign Trade, then Mise, also within the diplomatic macrostructure. Otherwise it will be exactly the opposite of what the President of the Entrepreneurship Council Berlusconi wanted to realize of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, that is, the Ministry of Made in Italy and ambassadors who were really representatives of the Made in Italy. The opposite will happen. Perhaps this is the logic, not of an entrepreneur, President of the Council, but of a lawyer of strong powers who has become President of the Council. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u87	Mr President, I fully agree with Mr Urso, with whom we have tabled amendments in the same direction. It is no coincidence that with Mr Urso we find ourselves on these positions because we share an experience within the Ministry for Foreign Trade and, therefore, a direct contact with this world. Another authoritative member of this Assembly, Senator Bonino - whom I do not see at the moment - who was responsible for the Ministry of International Trade, does so because we had a Ministry of International Trade, as we had a Ministry for Foreign Trade, which served the interests of the Italian economy for many years based on the three characteristics of autonomy, specific competence and uniqueness. These are three characteristics that with this transformation that you operate and the transfer of competences to the "warm" of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you come to lose. Let me give you an example: a few years ago, Italy had developed, first among the countries of the G20, a digital platform in which all contacts and operations within the import-export world came to be operational. The operators from all over the chain (banks, companies, insurance companies, law firms, arbitration firms, customs, international organizations, chambers of commerce and trade fairs) were in contact; well, there was no Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic corps because diplomats did something else. Abroad, as we said this morning under discussion, businesses go to the embassy to sign eventually and to celebrate the signing of a commercial contract with a toast in the embassy. The contract, however, is not done with our diplomatic officials, who are very good and prepared, but who are not commercial experts. So you're putting in charge of a structure, which isn't the reference structure, a know-how, dispersing it. Specifically, these amendments which we have proposed seek precisely to defend this know-how and this expertise of the officials who have studied and prepared themselves. There are specialization courses and second level masters that were required of these officials before entering the administration of foreign trade. Then decades of experience in commercial missions around the world followed. These people now find themselves in the "warm" of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without even being recognized this know-how and those small emoluments that result from this expertise. It is a great mistake and we hope that it can at least be contained with the adoption of these amendments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u88	The remaining amendments are set out. The amendments and agendas referred to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the Decree-Law are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Amendment 6.1, together with our leader, Mr Ciriani and my colleague, Mr Zaffini, we are asking the House to vote in order to remedy what we believe is discrimination which suffers from the regional school offices of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Basilicata, Molise and Umbria regions. In fact, if the Ministry of Education had a further four posts as general manager, these could be allocated to the aforementioned Regions, so that their regional school offices could also have a regional manager, as is the case in all the other Regions of Italy. This of course in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the same. That is why we had designed Amendment 6.1. To my surprise, for what was the progress of the work in the Commission, at some point an amendment had appeared of the rapporteur who, confirming with regard to Friuli-Venezia Giulia what was already foreseen in the last budget law, added a position of general manager for the Umbria Region, thus leaving uncovered the other two Regions, Basilicata and Molise. This amendment was then withdrawn and we would have expected, at the stage of the proposal of amendment 6.1, that we would be asked for a reformulation, as is institutional practice. This has not happened and the rapporteur's wording has also disappeared. We want to keep Amendment 6.1 in place, because we believe that, with little economic effort, a situation which discriminates against the four regions can be healed. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u90	The remaining amendments are set out. The amendments referred to Article 7 of the Decree-Law are set out. As the opinions of the 5th Commission have not yet been received, I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.12 a.m. and resumed at 16.30 a.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u91	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1.13 (text 2 corrected), 1,15, 1,200, 1,400, 1.0.2 (text 2), 1.0,10000 and 1.0,700; the opinion is against the remaining amendments and agendas with the exception of Amendment No 1,300, which I withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u92	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u93	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u96	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on this amendment. First, in the general discussion, with reference to the shift of the delegation to tourism from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, legitimate arguments were put forward, based, however, on absolutely questionable data. For example, it has been said that the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, under the guidance of the former Minister, had in fact begun to protect the origin of the products. Well, milk, cheese, wheat, pasta, rice and tomato have had the label of origin in the previous legislature. So, in fact, this legislature has simply continued its path in its own time, without making any innovation. A path that we will have to further strengthen, for example, with regard to the subject of the processing of fruit and vegetables, which do not yet have this definition. I would like to point out that when we argue in favour of a subject, albeit legitimately, we do not try to divert attention by triggering issues that have nothing to do with them and which, moreover, are coercive, even in terms of arguments. [[Applause from Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u97	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u100	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would just like to continue my earlier reasoning on Amendment 1.4 as it is similar to what we discussed earlier. The issue of exports has been mentioned to demonstrate that, in the fourteen months of the previous Government of this legislature, for the first time, attention would be paid to exports. Well, agri-food exports in 2009 amounted to 26 billion, in 2011 to 30 billion, in 2013 to 33 billion, in 2015 to 37, in 2017 to 41, in 2018 to 42. This is just to say that the growth that there has been, even in this case, is nothing more than the continuation of a path that has already begun. Among other things, in support of the thesis that it is not impossible - indeed, we will ask that it be done - a great synergy between food and wine products and tourism, I quote the fact that the provision on wine tourism was launched in December 2017 and became law a year and a half later, in 2019, so this attention is possible daily. That is why we will be against Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u103	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am simply speaking to respond. No one is saying that in fourteen months we have revolutionized and improved the world, but let us remember that, on the issue of labelling, if it had not been for the previous government, in Europe they would have sent us into infringement, seen and considered that the previous minister Martina had forgotten to communicate it to Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, the first thing they told us in Europe when we arrived was that Italians are not correct towards Europe; it was thanks to us, therefore, because otherwise the labelling law would go to ramengo. Secondly, it is true that no one says that we started exports, but quite simply, in a time of economic crisis, at the time when sanctions were imposed on Russia and a whole series of states at European level closed to Italian products, the Italian product continued to grow, and not thanks to the minister Centinario or this Parliament or that Government, but thanks to Italian companies that go to Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Don't take credit you don't have, then. As regards the law on wine tourism, it is also true that it was you who started the iter, but, as always, if it had not been for the undersigned that put it as a priority in government action, we would not have taken it home. In short, it is useless to continue to say that Jesus died of cold. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u104	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u107	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about punctuality. You approved the ministerial decree that was laid down in the norm, neither more nor less, and it took you 14 months to do so. That's fine, it was to be done, but you just finished a path that was started. With regard to the issue of duties, it was first said that the Government did nothing. I would just like to point out that in recent days an amendment has been approved, on presentation by the Democratic Party Group to the European Parliament, which provides for the allocation of resources in the preparation of the European budget to compensate companies that will be damaged by US duties. The focus on these issues is therefore there and is constant. I'm not saying we've solved all the problems; I'm just saying don't use the numbers at least. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u108	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators, until the words "level" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.9 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u111	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a brief explanation of vote on Amendment No 1.12 in order to explain its explanatory statement and to invite colleagues to consider it. The amendment to our examination complies with the rule that, in addition to the passage of the three managers who from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policies return to Mibac, provides for the recruitment of three new managers. We call for these three leaders to implement the policies and synergies of coordination between the various departments, so not only that of agricultural food and forestry policies, not only that of the Mibac, but also that of the territory and the environment. We believe that all these types of activities are interconnected. The amendment transforms into a precise rule the things that they have said in words all these days. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u112	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1.13 (text 2 corrected) the 5th Commission gave a non-obstacle opinion conditional on a rewording. Senator Mantovani, do you accept this? MANTOVANI, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.13 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u115	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to vote against Amendment No 1.13 (Text 3), but I would like to remind you of Amendment No 1.2 which we tabled in the context of the speed with which we began to vote has passed silently. I do not want it to go quietly, because this amendment concerned the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism. As I have already said in general discussion and I now want to reiterate, before reorganizing and reorganizing the Ministries, this Government should rearrange the ideas and remember that tourism is one of the fundamental sectors for the economy and GDP of the country and that the brand of Made in Italy, as I said this morning, truly represents an intangible infrastructure, with its numbers. I therefore hope that Mr Tiraboschi's amendment 1.0.1 will be taken into account. One cannot think of a delegation of this kind from one Ministry to another just out of whim, because one Minister likes it more than another: it is necessary to establish an ad hoc Dicastery for both foreign trade and tourism, because they are the two most important voices and sectors of the Italian economic system. They are the raw material of Italy. I'll repeat it to the point of nausea and exhaustion. Therefore, please: as I was saying this morning, try to listen to those who want to help purposefully. During the Berlusconi Government in 2009-2011 this Ministry was established and worked very well. Listen to the proposals, we do not act only in a partisan and partisan way, in the sense of one part rather than another. This is a sincere appeal for the good of the country. The establishment of two such important ministries with such a portfolio, which would not be an item of expenditure of these Ministries but an investment, is very important. As I have already said, here we need a "decree" only: the save Italy, which means sending this Government home, because this cannot go on. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u116	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.13 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.14 is therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.15, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1.17 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u119	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us briefly point out that, in addition to the delegations on tourism, people and real lives are also being transferred by this measure. Therefore, with this amendment we take back what we have been asked by all the trade union acronyms that we have audited in the Commission, namely that the employees to whom the transfer will be proposed should be granted ten days to exercise the right of option. The same rule is included in Article 2 when it comes to the transfer of employees from Mise to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Honestly we do not understand this attitude of using double standards in two different articles relating to two different ministries. I therefore call on my fellow Members to reflect on this amendment and to support our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,300 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,400, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Perosino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u121	Mr President, we propose that the agenda be adopted as a recommendation. I am against the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u122	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u123	Senator Centinario, do you agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the agenda be accepted as a recommendation? I understand your answer is negative, but say so explicitly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u124	Mr President, the recommendations are of no use, so thank you and goodbye.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u125	So you're asking for the vote? CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Sure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u126	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u127	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, presented by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,101, presented by Senator Bergesio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Saponara and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.1 is not possible. On Amendment 1.0.2 (text 2) the 5th Commission gave an opinion on this subject subject to a rewording. Senator Mantovani, are you welcome? MANTOVANI, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/1, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.10000/2, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators, up to the words "with the following words": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.0.10000/3, 1.0.10000/4 and 1.0.10000/5 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/6, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/7, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/10, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/11, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, identical to the amendment 1.0.10000/12 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/14, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.10000/15, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators, up to the words "safety." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.0.10000/16 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of the amendment 1.0.10000/17, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words "and "to" the "to." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.0.10000/18 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/19, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.10000/20, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words "n." 75... 75... 75... 75... 75... 75... 75... 75... 75... 75.. 75... 75.. 75... 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75.. 75. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.0.10000/21 to 1.0.10000/27 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/28, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.10000/29 to 1.0.10000/33 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/34, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/35, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.10000/36, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.10000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.700/1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 1.0.700/2 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.700, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u128	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Follonica) in Follonica, in the province of Grosseto, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u129	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u130	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2,1000 and 2.20. I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 2.13 (text 2) and turn it into an agenda. I am against all the other amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u131	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u132	Senator De Petris, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw amendment 2.13 (text 2) and to turn it into an agenda? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Urso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.3 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 2.4, which is identical to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.4 tabled by Senator Fantetti, identical to Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Urso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Urso, has been voted by a simultaneous vote until the words "functions transferred" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.9 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Fantetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Fantetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.12 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 2.14, which is essentially the same as Amendment 2.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Fantetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Fantetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G2.13 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,1000/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.20, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.21 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u135	MANTOVANI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to make one point: with regard to Amendment 2,1000 there is a drafting problem, where we are asking for the replacement of the words 'Minister for Foreign Trade' with 'Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation'. Since the wording "Ministry of Foreign Trade" is also given in the text, it is also necessary to replace it in that case. It is a mere drafting problem in the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u136	It is already in the final proposal for coordination. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u137	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3,100, 3.0,1000 and 3.0,2000. On Amendment 3.0.2000 there is a problem of material transcription, because Table C is reproduced twice in the text of the amendment as set out in the dossier, which should therefore be corrected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u138	Of course, rapporteur, this is a purely material correction.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u139	MANTOVANI, rapporteur. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u141	Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.2 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 3,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.1000/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.2000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.1 and 3.0.2 are unacceptable. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u142	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 4,2000 (correct text) and 4,100 and against all the other amendments and the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u143	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u144	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words "directive" in charge. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.9 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u147	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, 4.11 may seem like an amendment of mere mathematical calculation, but it refers to the technical structure supporting MIT, which is being set up. It is expected that this technical structure will be able to avail itself of twelve experts and consultants. The text states exactly: "up to a maximum of twelve experts or consultants." A sum of EUR 480,000 is allocated to these experts. With this amendment, we call for the figure to be broken down with an annual salary of no more than EUR 40,000. It's just a mathematical division. We all know that 480,000 divided by 12 is 40,000, but we would like to prevent, in case only two experts were hired, from being awarded EUR 240,000 each. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u148	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/2, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/3, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,2000 (correct text)/5, 4,2000 (correct text)/6 and 4,2000 (correct text)/7 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/8, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/9, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/10, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,2000 (correct text)/100 and 4,2000 (correct text)/101 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,2000 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u151	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we shall abstain on Amendment No 4,2000 (correct text), also because we had tabled sub-amendment No 4,2000 (correct text)/101, which was declared inadmissible. On this, as you know, the Presidency's judgement is indisputable, but it is also undeniable that the problem of Ilva is real. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Then we have given this opportunity and will present the matter on every occasion. It is the Government that must intervene and cannot leave this huge problem unresolved, without clear communication. Sub-amendment 4,2000 (correct text)/101 - I stress - has been signed by the whole centre-right (Forza Italia, Lega e Fratelli d'Italia) and signed by everyone. Unfortunately it has been declared inadmissible, but - I repeat - the problem remains: thousands and thousands of jobs, 1.4% of GDP, tens of thousands of jobs in the industry and the whole sector that is close to this production. It is absolutely not a problem that can be postponed. We will continue to urge the Government, as we have done, because it is a very serious problem that affects our country, both at the strategic level, and at the level of the problems of the people who lose their jobs and of an entire area that loses a wealth and a great resource. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u152	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4,2000 (correct text), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.13 is not possible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, presented by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u153	Mr President, the Commission's amendment 5,1000 is withdrawn. I am against all the other amendments. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G5,200, I am in favour of its adoption, subject to rewording, in the sense of deleting the third premise and deleting, in the final commitment, the words 'and seismic risk'. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G5.1, I am in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u154	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u155	Senator Pazzaglini, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G5,200? Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators, up to the words 'environmental rehabilitation'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.3 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Mantovani, do you confirm that Amendment 5,1000 has been withdrawn? MANTOVANI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All its sub-amendments from 5,1000/1 to 5,1000/11 are therefore dropped. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G5,200 (text 2) and G5.1 will not be put to the vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u156	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u157	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u158	Let us move on to Amendment 6.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining amendments to Articles 6 and 7 of the Decree-Law are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on agendas G7.0.3 and G7.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u159	Mr President, I am in favour of both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u160	Mr President, the Government accepts the agendas G7.0.3 and G7.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u161	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7.0.3 and G7.0.4 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u164	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur because the work that has been carried out on the decree-law has been very careful and accurate. Announcing from the outset that on the measure under consideration our Group, together with other Senators of the Mixed Group, will vote in favour, I hope that the next Government - which hopefully will be in the next legislature - will not change once again the competence of the Ministries, because I believe that this is not a very good habit. We have to tell ourselves this out of honesty. The central question of this decree-law is the fundamental reason for our vote in favour - it is to bring tourism back within what has always been a little 'his natural beehive, that is to say the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. We know the reason perfectly well and I also say this to my colleagues in the League, in particular to my colleague, Mr Centinario, who until a few weeks ago was Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Policy, with delegation to tourism. We all know how much we have invested in these years to enhance rural and food and wine tourism, wine cities, our rural landscape, our typical products: we know perfectly how much this represents a distinctive brand for our country. In the same way, however, we also know that the decision to bring tourism back within the Ministry of Agricultural Policy was linked, rather than to this reasoning, to the fact that there were also many strong and deserving interests on the part of the then Minister in relation to tourism. What I really think is that our country will sooner or later have to make the choice to set up a real Ministry of Tourism: I say it here frankly. We will certainly have to intervene, make changes, think, but we must understand that this is a strategic issue for Italy. Absolutely strategic is certainly also the choice of having relocated the tourism sector within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities because, without prejudice to all important things and absolutely to coordinate in the organization and strategic axis of tourism in our country - which includes rural tourism, agritourism, the valorization of our territories also from the point of view of food and wine - it is clear however that the fundamental asset is closely connected to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. The same issue of landscape protection - I have listened to previous speeches - as well as those related to compliance with Article 9 of the Constitution, also relates to the Superintendence for architectural, cultural and archaeological goods. We are the country that has the largest treasure in the world, with the highest percentage of cultural and archaeological assets: it is for this reason, therefore, that the asset was to be placed within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, on the understanding that, in my opinion, if this Government really intends to restart the country towards a different development linked to quality, it cannot neglect the reflection of finally giving life - I say it here - to a real Ministry of Tourism. In fact, the problem is not so much that of this commuting on one side and on the other, which certainly does not do us any honour, but it is to have a strong ability to invest. It is not just the fact that, fortunately, millions of people arrive in our country, we must also invest in the quality of this tourism; we must probably also give addresses, modify a type of usability. We have cities that have impact problems, so we have to intervene on that. We have problems from this point of view that I consider very serious, but also great opportunities. It would therefore be appropriate to intervene all together because this is a national interest. We are talking a lot about Ilva, for goodness sake, but you understand well that it should be a meeting point between all the forces of majority and opposition that of choosing tourism as one of the main assets of investment for our country and real development, good and quality. However, it is also necessary to make the necessary choices in this area, which can no longer be based solely on mass tourism of a hyper-consumeristic nature, of the cultural heritage of our cities, but must diversify the offer. I make these considerations because we can not only consider the return of competence on tourism to the Ministry, but also put the issue of the need for serious reflection on the possibility of setting up a Ministry of Tourism. Moreover, the amendments adopted in the Commission also greatly strengthen this approach: I am thinking of the question of museums, the possibility of using even more staff, including through other companies, for better use and even the opening of the museums themselves. It is also very important the part, on which we have spoken with amendments, which concerns the whole remodulation of the appropriations for the revision of the roles and careers of the Armed Forces and the issue of overtime, which is part of the decree-law, but which - you understand well - allows us today, beyond the many instrumental polemics that I have heard, to respond with the facts regarding what it means to invest in security (that good, the real one) in the country and in our cities. I repeat that we could certainly have passed a decree-law that would have allowed us to give more functionality to other ministries, but this will need a little more time; I say this to the Government, because other amendments concerning this possibility have been declared inadmissible. All right, but this issue cannot be abandoned. We need a very strong efficiency of the Ministries and a much more intense link between the political direction and the administrative apparatus, because the theme we place and that we can never forget is that the reorder is positive, but we must absolutely speed up the efficiency capacity within the Ministries. As parliamentarians, as legislators, we adopt rules, we continue to implement them, then we often lose sight of them. We have a very strong problem of implementing the rules, implementing decrees; therefore we must intervene, even quickly, in order to understand that we must put mechanisms, operating changes (not generally efficient) within the Ministries themselves and the apparatus, so that this can really ensure the speedy implementation of the rules, the launch of the implementing decrees, because this is one of the major problems that we have. I therefore hope that the next reordering measure will enter into the substance of this problem in order to give real answers to the citizens and, above all, consistency between the laws that we approve as legislators and their implementation. That is why we are announcing our vote in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u167	SUDANO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reorganisation of the ministries that we are about to vote has an impact on a number of strategic sectors for the development and economy of the country, through changes oriented by the unitary plan to optimize the impulse of the new government, from a perspective that puts the objectives of its programme at the centre. I am referring to tourism, the internationalisation of Italian companies, infrastructure, the environment, education and research, to which is undoubtedly added the unavoidable need for security, through the reorganization of the careers of the staff of the Armed Forces and the appropriations that will be allocated to them. In particular, action is taken by referring the tourism sector to cultural heritage, which is more suitable also in the opinion of all the main observers, after its competence had been transferred to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy for reasons hardly attributable to reasons of effectiveness of administrative action. The choice to restore skills according to the previous structure that, as I said, goes in the direction desired by the majority of the operators of the sector, certainly critical towards the decision of the previous Government, does not in any way exclude the importance of agri-food production in the field of tourism, but, on the contrary, enhances its synergy, as it is evident that cultural heritage must be understood and valued unitedly with an overall view that includes artistic goods, but also naturalistic ones. This is because tourism has a large potential for development that it is necessary to support if it is true that, as a recent survey by the Bank of Italy shows, if in the period between 1999 and 2017 the spending of foreign tourists in our country had grown as much as the potential demand, Italian GDP would today be at more than 0.8 percentage points. Tourism is the means through which the country can export the artistic, landscape, naturalistic and agri-food heritage. However, Made in Italy, as we know, goes further and exports properly understood can only represent a fundamental resource for competitiveness in a globalized system. For this reason, we believe that the choice to place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation the definition of strategies of commercial and promotional policy with foreign countries and development of the internationalization of the country system responds to the intention to make more strategic the role of export in the Italian foreign policy, as has also highlighted the major industrial associations, which have evidenced, through the words of the president of Confindustria, that the diplomacy of our Country should go towards this direction, that is, to increase the export and the partnerships of our enterprises. Therefore, merging delegations can be a strategic element in the interests of all of us, businesses and clearly of the country. The attention to industrial policies in terms of both the enhancement of tourism in its most appropriate context, and the foreign trade of Italian products, goes hand in hand with the need (not only proper to these sectors, but primary to the country in general) for security. This theme is appropriately addressed in the measure in various ways: that of the staff of the Armed Forces, for which it is previewed a reorganization that previews the adaptation of the organic endowments of each body, the simplification of the order, with the valorization of the formative path and a computer strengthening for the reduction of the times for the conclusion of the selection procedures and the widening of the opportunities of progression in career. To this is added the necessary and expected payment of overtime payments for the operation "Safe roads," with an appropriation of 4.6 million euros. Also related to safety, from the point of view of mobility, are the forecasts relating to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in which the establishment of a technical structure expressly assigned to the definition of criteria to ensure the best and rational utilization of resources through management control and the strengthening of internal control is designed precisely to make the most of the economic resources of a large Ministry of spending such as this, which are all too often lost in a thousand bureaucratic tables because of the absence of more general coordination, with consequences for the general state of our infrastructures, for which the absence of maintenance is often the result of uncoordinated and rational programming. With regard to the environment, it is certainly to be appreciated the decision to reorganise the current governance model, which adapts to most existing ministerial structures, also introducing a new Directorate-General entirely dedicated to climate change, which therefore responds to the demands formulated for some time by a large part of the public for the implementation of policies that are no longer differable. Finally, I would like to point out that the reorganization of the Ministry of Education also responds to the need to overcome a state of paralysis that had been determined because of the previous Government, also following remarks made by the supervisory bodies that have shown that the previous management has been somewhat reckless in the appointments, highlighting profiles of illegality of the procedures that have led to a situation of real risk of administrative paralysis, with organizational structures of such a fundamental administration, whose managers are still waiting for months under conditions of uncertainty. For all these reasons, with colleagues from the Italian Group Viva-PSI, we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u170	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on this decree-law which concerns - in the title - the reordering of the Ministries. This is an argument that certainly does not arouse emotions in those who do not have a culture of the State, but that specifically concerns the structure of the Government, precisely, and therefore the structure of the State, with aspects that had to be sufficiently weighted. On other occasions the decree of urgency was applied when, at the beginning of a parliamentary term, those who realized - on the basis of an electoral result - a majority, therefore a government, decided the amalgamation or separation of some Ministry, all the more so since, in 2001, the law Bassanini came into force that we, having a culture of the State, have applied - even if not decided - in our legislature of 2001. Then, the reform of the Ministries provided, for example, for the amalgamation of the Ministry of International Trade in the Ministry of Economic Development. Well, I say this from direct experience because I found myself in that Ministry: that Berlusconi Government decided to carry out the reform Bassanini punctually by merging the Ministry of International Trade in the Ministry of Economic Development. However, at the beginning of a parliamentary term it can also be understood - having a five-year perspective - that there will be amalgamations or divisions of such important importance that, as all those who have dealt with the administration of the State know, they need time to be able to unfold. So it happened with us for the Ministry of International Trade in 2001-2006: five years to apply that understanding, and I know what it meant because I was witnessing it as Deputy Minister Delegate for Foreign Trade. Also later, in 2006, the Prodi Government, on the basis of an electoral result and a majority expressed anyway by the voters, decided the reverse path, denying the Bassanini law that the left had wanted and separating the Ministry of International Trade to confer it to Minister Bonino, who had two Dicasteries, not merged: the Ministry of European Politics and the Ministry of International Trade. Prodi then thought he had five years ahead; then, in this Senate of the Republic, his government fell after two years and we returned to the Government. Returning to the government, we came back to the Ministry, as laid down by the Bassanini law. Yesterday I listened to a heated intervention by Senator Lezzi, who is not present. I remind you, myself and those who want to listen to us, that I resigned from the government, just as it happened before me to more illustrious characters, who today rightly stand in the High Hill. When you don't share choices, you leave the government. Even then Minister Mattarella, along with four other ministers of the left DC, left the government because they did not share the choices. In the current legislature I assist colleagues who make interventions of high public morality because they do not share a choice on Ilva, which when they were in the government they had instead shared. Without wishing to offend anyone, I believe that it would have been more dignified to resign from the Ministry that then covered itself, if we did not share the criminal shield on Ilva, rather than remain in office, sharing that choice, and then, once lost office, become suddenly and again revolutionary, forcing the majority to abolish the criminal shield because a Ministry was lost. 5.35 p.m. (Urso followed). I say this to remind the story and say that we are witnessing the fact that to satisfy the two party leaders, Franceschini and Di Maio, who, being unable to hold the post of Deputy Prime Ministers as had happened to the two previous heads of delegation, Salvini and Di Maio, and unable to obtain this small star Di Maio and not being able to obtain it even Franceschini (who, indeed, by giving up his little star has forced Di Maio to give up his) gets to assemble two Ministries to the Ministries assigned to them because so their dignity is maintained, trampling that of the State. Their dignity is maintained by trampling on the dignity of the State and we find that Minister Di Maio, who in the previous Government was the head of two important ministries, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry for Economic Development, who in the previous Government had fiercely opposed the break-up of foreign trade to go to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, suddenly becomes favorable to the understanding because it changes Ministry. Where is the coherence and political dignity of those who express these things when it has to do not with a square, but with the architrave, the structure of the State, which is trampled on for interests not only political, but personal, to the point that changes the opinion and unites the two Ministries? I address the Prime Minister Conte because we are here in the presence of a paradoxical fact. The divisions and amalgamations take place at the beginning of the parliamentary term because of necessity and urgency. Instead, we have the Count I Government, which then leaves its hand to Count II. The same premier, basically with the same party leads. It changes in the sense that in the Count Government I had a bipartitism or a bipartite breakfast, in which the axis was represented by the Movimento 5 Stars expressing the premier Conte, and now instead we have a quadripartic coalition, in which the axis always remains the Movimento 5 Stars expressing the Count II. We are not Andreotti I, Andreotti II and Andreotti III. In making the comparison, I do not want to offend Senator Giulio Andreotti because he, yes, was a man of state; we fought him, but he was a man of state. We are at Count I, Count II, with the 5 Star Movement of the Government, which mix the papers of the Ministries to satisfy the new Heads of Delegation. Tourism then goes to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities to satisfy Franceschini and foreign trade goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to satisfy Di Maio who has never occupied himself with either work, nor with the Ministry for Economic Development, nor with foreign policy, joins the responsibilities of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and, indeed, cancels the competences. As I said before, in fact, the drama is that we could do what Berlusconi wanted to do when he was Foreign Minister of Farnesina, the pole of Made in Italy in the world, the instrument of ambassadors who traveled the world in support of the enterprise, but we had to give a clear political address, like what Berlusconi wanted to give at that juncture. Here exactly the opposite happens: we cancel the skills, the specificities, the professionalism of foreign trade, while knowing that we are the country that lives - the more you know it in this moment of internal economic crisis - only on the growth of exports, which, by the way, grow everywhere, towards the United States and in other countries, but which instead decrease towards China. I had read a few months ago that the historic agreement of the Silk Road was signed because it was necessary to relaunch the Italian export to China. Well, Italian exports grew until March of this year towards China, and when the agreement is signed, exports start to fall down, while Chinese exports to Italy increase. Something doesn't work in the narrative, in the state, and in the government. Well, today is exactly the opposite of what Berlusconi - and the center-right - hoped as an entrepreneur who led the Government, that is to give strength to the enterprises through the structure of the Farnesina. Instead, it happens that the Farnesina takes over the resources related to promotion, which were intended for companies, in order to promote diplomacy, and certainly not the enterprises, because it expressly renounces to create within the Ministry that specificity with its general direction that would have been absolutely necessary. My time is over and I'm done. For these reasons, more than a reorder of the Ministries, this is a commodity of the Ministries, which distinguishes this legislature dominated by the 5 Stars; a commodity of the Ministries that offends the State, that deprives the enterprises, that today they would need very much, of their instrument and that for this reason we consider is the emblem of this legislature and of this Government. Mr President, given the winds of crisis they feel, we will probably soon have a Count III or who knows what, and this reordering of the Ministries will never enter into force. At least, that's my wish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Urso, the time of his intervention had ended, not his time [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u173	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of this measure, which we believe is to be supported without reservation because it persuades us of the systemic and integrated approach of the choices we have taken in relation to a complex issue. I believe that, in the face of facts of this importance, such as those dealing with the overall efficiency of the organisation of our ministries, we should resist the temptation of low-level polemics; we should try to have a debate of merit; we should strive not to reduce everything to propaganda that is sometimes petty. I have to say that what we have done today was, from my point of view, a debate that has also had some fall in style - which I will then emphasise - but that essentially in its overallity has enabled us to focus on the main needs that we have to meet today, if we really are concerned with increasing the level of effectiveness of tourism policies. Mr President, when the then Minister Centinario determined the detachment of tourist policies from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage to take them to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, I did not think that Senator Centinario would do this for a plan of power or for a need of visibility. I thought that the former minister Centinario did something he believed in, something that seemed profoundly wrong to me for the reasons I'm going to say. Similarly, I would like to see a similar recognition of the good faith with which certain decisions are made and the desire to consider matters in their great factual relevance in those who do not share today's choice. Let me give an example: no one denies that there are connections, even very strong ones, of the policies of valorization of tourism with sectors such as agriculture and food and wine, but there are also with sectors such as artistic and traditional crafts; there are connections also between tourism and manufacturing. Tourism is by its nature a sector that has multiple relationships. But can it be denied that the sector with which tourism has the most relevance, the most relationships, with which it is most intertwined is the sector of culture? Can it be denied that, although there are many reasons why you come to Italy, the main reason that causes the world to visit our country is its artistic and cultural heritage? [[Applause from the PD Group]] It seems to me that this cannot be denied, so I think it is natural that we make the choice that Parliament will approve today - I hope -. To Senator Augussori, who spoke in his speech about a choice of PD bullying, I would like to say that it is not a choice of PD bullying, but it is a strategic choice of the Democratic Party and of all this majority. I would like to add that it is not, as he claims, a return to the past, but simply a return to logic. Tourist policies go back to where they should be, back to where they were torn and where it is natural that they are. It does not seem to me that this measure has the defects that have been attributed to it by many interventions that have taken place today. It does not seem to me that it lacks to neglect the need to enhance food and wine policies and the agriculture sector, because I think that can be done even if tourism is part of another Ministry. The problem is with how much intelligence you do it, with what systemic approach and with how many resources you manage to do because the resources you can predict. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not a question of the place of competence, it does not seem to me that the measure before our examination has the defect of penalising the expertise, the knowledge and the competences of the officials who are transferred because it takes place, precisely, a transfer of staff, not a subtraction of competences. It does not seem to me, moreover, that the other great choice made by this measure, i.e. the combination of export promotion and internationalization policies at the Ministry of Foreign Policies, has the defect of penalising and creating risks and dangers for our small enterprises. I therefore feel that I have to respond to a very harsh remark that has been made against us. We have been asked what we make these choices with, that we say we want to reduce the expenditure for the Ministries but in reality we increase the staff of some sectors of the Ministry. I feel I have to reply to this accusation in a very simple way and without a polemic spirit: we make these choices with the face of credibility, with the same face that has allowed us, in a short time, to see the annual expenditure on interest payable on the public debt of this country fall by 6 billion, simply removing the tax that derives from the irresponsible statements that play with the prospect of exiting the euro and creating the financial disorder in Italy. With that face, the face of credibility, we also make choices that in some areas of cultural policy allow us to fill up some gaps of staff that we now consider to be penalising for the effectiveness of policies in this field. In fact, having more staff for the protection and supervision of our cultural heritage is important; having more staff for the enhancement of the archival and documentary heritage of our libraries is important. And I think the need to increase the possibilities for the use of our artistic and museum heritage is also of great importance. We all know that if we move in that direction, really the attractiveness of our country will grow as we all hope it will. I conclude by saying that I find this measure a very encouraging sign, regarding the choices made with regard to the police and the armed forces. With an amendment from the Government, which has been approved in the Commission, we are able to tidy up the implementation of the 2018 delegation for the revision of roles; we confirm some appropriations, we increase others, we give a clear signal of support to requests that we consider very important. It is a signal that is associated with another, much more substantial, present in the draft budget law, in which there will be a substantial appropriation, both for the needs related to the new contract of the Forces of Order, police and armed, and for the issue of the reorganization of careers. We are proud of this, because we think that we must always show consistency in the choices we make. It is not always possible to satisfy any need with just one measure, but it is necessary to give the idea of a path that begins, continues and aims at important objectives. In my opinion, the government and the majority with this measure have managed to give a sense of this path, which is in progress, and for this reason the Democratic Party Group, with great conviction, will support it in the final vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u174	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the winners of the "Culture of legality and responsible use of money" competition, which has been banned by the Piedmont Regional Council for High School. Thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u177	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us admit that we are a little concerned, because these choices do not have a logic for the good of the country, in our opinion, but for the good of your armchairs. Let's begin, President, with the whim of Minister Di Maio. This transfer is not for Italian companies, it is not for exports; it is simply to please a minister who perhaps had nothing to do. So we asked ourselves a few questions. In our opinion, this transfer is likely to affect the commendable address lines approved on March 8, 2019. How can Farnesina ensure integration with supply chain systems? How to create the next generation step Italy? How to expand the offer of services to the South and lead the fight against Italian soiling? How can the Farnesina coordinate with the Digital TAG and the blockchain? How to upgrade trade fairs around the world? How are you going to restart the export? With the excellent idea of creating 1,500 ambassadors of Made in Italy, trained through training centers? All these questions, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to have an answer from Minister Di Maio. Let's say, colleagues: after the damage to Mise you want to continue with the damage to the Farnesina. The serious problem is that there has not been a professional association or an entrepreneur who has applauded your initiative. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, let us talk about tourism and immediately reject the proposal that has come from many of our colleagues. We too would have liked to have a Ministry of Tourism; we too would like to have a Ministry that deals exclusively with this important sector of our country. But - alas, ladies and gentlemen - there is something called Title V of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Italian Republic provides that tourism is a matter of exclusive competence of the Regions; consequently, it would have been stupid to set up the Ministry of Tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] First we do the revision of the Constitution, if we want to do it, and then, at that point, we make a real Ministry of Tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Collina]] When we talk about tourism, colleagues, we are talking about 30,000 kilometres of coastline, urban and rural landscapes, UNESCO sites, spa areas, mountains and hills, envied, copied, desired and loved food products all over the world. Gentlemen, this is our country. This is the tourism of our country. This is the tourism of Italy and in Italy tourism is a serious thing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is so serious that, when I went to China and met the Chinese Tourism Minister, my colleague told me that Italy and China are two world superpowers in the tourism sector. He used the expression: world superpowers in this sector. As a result, it does not deserve the treatment you are giving it at this time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The tourism sector is the pride of our country. Tour operators and travel agencies are the ambassadors of our country around the world and do not deserve this punishment. And the punishment started with a policy like this: we change everything so we don't change anything. Your choice is a real return to the past. Nothing has changed, because the attitude you have towards the sector has not changed: at the TTG in Rimini the Minister of Tourism has not presented himself; at the G20 of tourism in Japan the Minister of Tourism has not presented himself. The G20 of tourism is the most important world event in this sector and we did not go there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a return to the past: Minister Franceschini has begun to leave this sector abandoned to himself; at the tourism fair in London there were all, even the regional councillors, but the Minister of Tourism did not show up. Today, neither the Minister of Tourism nor the Undersecretary with the delegation to tourism have presented themselves in this Chamber. MIRABELLI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). No one has come to this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the consideration that the Government has towards our sector, seen and considered that I believe the operators in tourism my colleagues. The managers, the owners of structures and the presidents of the associations are all desperate. Not one of the actors in tourism praised your choice; not one tourist actor said that this choice was the best for the country. They all remained silent, spreading their arms and saying that once again Franceschini touches him. The project was clear and shared with the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, which surprise us even today. It was a project not imposed, but shared with the leaders of the Movimento 5 Stars: to give this country a new and different idea of promoting Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The fall hurts. We wanted to give the idea of a new system Italy, a modernization of the way to promote our country and made in Italy; a modern Ministry of valorization and promotion not only of agro-food and not only of the territories, but of all the made in Italy and of all our territory. Your project is so incomprehensible that you have abandoned and forgotten the employees, who thanked us again today because we were the only ones who had still taken them into consideration. In the transfer you left to themselves the poor people who deal with tourism in this country. We do not say that tourism is not linked to cultural heritage. We never said that. According to us, food and wine tourism and cultural tourism are a part of our country's tourism. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] While on the one hand we have a cultural sector, which meditates on activities to limit the flow of tourists in our cities; on the other hand, there is a growing sector, agri-food tourism, with great potential and that allows the development of rural areas and creates an additional income to the sector. Even last year's G20 agriculture in Argentina and this year in Japan has been said that tourism served and serves to enhance rural areas. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Democratic Party is talking about cultural heritage. We remind colleagues of the PD the funds made available in the last fourteen months for religious paths, promoted by the candidate in the Region Lucia Borgonzoni, or the three million euros for Parma 2020, wanted by Senator Campari and Senator Borgonzoni. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We know, dear PD, that Parma is not only raw ham and Parmigiano Reggiano. We want to see how much money you can put for your friend mayor of Parma and to promote Parma 2020. We have done the deeds, just words for now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Some colleagues, to justify the whim, say that in the meantime nothing - blessed ignorance - has been done in those fourteen months. First of all I like to recall the Report on Italian food and wine tourism of 2019, edited by Dr. Garibaldi. If you want, we'll get you a copy and let you understand what agri-food tourism means. The formal passage arrived in January 2019 after a way of the Cross in the Byzantine and bankrupt bureaucracy of this poor Italy. It allowed us to achieve important results, which the industry had enthusiastically welcomed. Mr President, I have a good list of results that we have achieved: six pages of results achieved by one that you thought had chosen the tourism sector simply for a whim; and all this in just eight months, ladies and gentlemen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, I invite you to conclude. I already gave her an extra minute. CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). We want to say the thing that interests us most: this choice is not all wrong. The new government has finally done one thing right: to put a potential Undersecretary who understands us about tourism and we recognize that. We hope, however, that Minister Franceschini will let the Undersecretary for Tourism work. We hope that the good Dario will finally step aside and think about doing his thing, rather than dealing with the tourism sector. If so, colleagues, we will be willing to cooperate, and not for that improvised and really out of place majority in our country, but for the tourism sector and especially for those who work there, who are currently getting their hands in the hair for a government that leaves so much to be desired. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u180	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law in conversion today, as well as the one voted on last year, is of great concern. The representative of the government looks at me stunned, but in fact, more or less a year ago, he voted against the then reordering of the Ministries. An older colleague of mine - in non-personal but parliamentary terms - told me that such measures usually originate at the beginning of the legislature, because a government makes its changes, introduces, detachs and adds Dicasteries or some of them, and then starts the legislature. As we all know, however, we are not at the beginning of the parliamentary term: we are now... [[Comments of Senator Vitali]] There's someone who thinks we're already near the end. I see some other colleagues are smiling, but we'll find out in the next few months. It is, however, true that today, dear Senator Fazzone, the measure under consideration appears all in all late; perhaps it was you who told me that. Well, I think we're talking a little bit about each other. There is a risk that this measure will be substantially adopted this evening too, but before the bureaucracy and the ministerial offices adhere to the changes that the various ministers with their requests have dropped in it, time will pass and perhaps, when it is all over, perhaps this legislature will already be gone. I think it is right to say, however, that the Forza Italia Group does not agree with the choice made, just as it did not share the choices made at the time. In this measure the tourism sector is again detached from the agriculture sector, to propose it again alongside cultural and environmental goods. Well, about this we were, like Forza Italia, in disagreement then and we are also today, because - today as then - we believe that the tourism sector needs a Dicastery in its own right, as decided by the Berlusconi Government years ago. It is well known, especially to the most experienced in the field of tourism, that the sector has almost 42 billion spent by 61 million foreign travellers in Italy, with a trend of over 6%; over 57 percent is represented by cultural tourism. This is a country that in theory could live only on tourism, if only those who govern it understood it to the full. Yet, this does not happen. There was the proposal of a colleague of ours, Senator Tiraboschi, to put together also the so-called Made in Italy, because it is right that, when we talk about tourism, we talk only about the welcome of foreign tourists in our country, but also about everything that is the brand made in Italy, what Italy can express in terms of excellence in the agro-food sectors, fashion, design and many others, where Italy actually excels at planetary level. That is why we believe that the measure under consideration is wrong here too. It was wrong then, which linked tourism to agriculture, and it is wrong what we are discussing today, because we do not give management autonomy to this sector. Turning to other articles of the decree-law, let us think of what is required by the current Foreign Minister, who certainly will not know the English language, but thinks of improving the situation of our diplomacy by placing foreign trade within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an issue already widely addressed. Everything that is Italian business, aimed mainly at the foreign market, has always been managed independently and autonomously through the Institute for Foreign Trade and other institutes connected to it anyway, which have always worked perfectly, in parallel with Italian diplomacy, with separate offices and with their employees in full autonomy, as explained in the general discussion by my colleague Raffaele Fantetti, a great expert in the field, whom I thank for having intervened with great competence and knowledge and from which we only have to learn, coming from the City of London and therefore knowledge of everything that has to do with our foreign market. Well, it is not clear for what reasons, suddenly, Italian diplomacy also has to deal with foreign trade. So let's take some steps back, we probably create problems for a sector that is fundamental, being our central export for the national economy. And all this happens because at some point at our national Gigino it comes to mind to do this, perhaps because it believes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can manage more a sector that has always had an independent and independent life than diplomacy, if it falls within it. Frankly, just at a time like today when the United States of Donald Trump decided to launch a real trade war, imposing duties on products for us fundamental - I quote the Parmesan Reggiano, and not only - that have hit our agro-food sector heavily, it seems even more insane to shift the competence of foreign trade within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. To entrust this sector to diplomats is at least irrelevant and certainly not useful in achieving what our producers - and of course I am not just referring to the agri-food sector - need. We need experienced people. I think you all know that our offices of the Agency for the promotion abroad and the internationalization of Italian companies are spread all over the world; we have highly qualified people who act independently of Italian diplomacy, because they know the trade chains and especially the best systems and channels to introduce our products. But this was not good; after so long it was necessary to put everything under that protecting wing, according to a clear will of power management that we would not have expected certainly came precisely from the Movimento 5 Stars, which instead has always done everything to explain that it is right to give power to the people and certainly not hold it in the hands of a few. Finally, the decree-law in question also examines the creation of a special technical structure that directly responds to the Minister of Infrastructure De Micheli for the internal control of that Dicastery. From the Ministry depends the green light to the many infrastructures stopped in Italy; in spite of the so-called decree-law unblocks yards, of unlocked yards so far have not been seen; the only exceptions concern the railway trait to high speed Naples-Bari and the Third pass of Genoa; not even the substitution of the minister Toninelli with Paola De Micheli seems to have changed the situation and, therefore, also this provision seems objectively useless. Therefore, in view of all the points made and the many arguments put forward by my colleagues during the general debate, I am voting against the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group, President, on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u183	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, this measure - as we have heard in Mrs Mantovani's speech - has a complex structure and has ambitious objectives: firstly, the transfer of the functions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the field of tourism to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. In particular, all the human, instrumental and financial resources necessary to bring out the potential that our country is able to express in terms of a highly competitive and qualified tourist offer are conferred. The tourist vocation of Italy is notoriously one of the aspects that most characterize it. We are talking about more than 200 million visitors per year, which are increasingly attracted not only by our museums, art cities and the main urban centres of the peninsula, but also by our agri-food excellences. Culture and tradition are the engines of our economy. According to a study by the Symbola and Unioncamere Foundation, in fact, the cultural and creative production system generates in Italy an income of almost 90 billion euros per year, equal to 6.1 percent of GDP and 1.4 million jobs. In general, it is estimated that more than a third of the turnover of the tourism sector in Italy is activated by culture. From this comes the need for an integrated promotion of Made in Italy. The ultimate and ambitious goal is to convey abroad an idea of Italy in which the traditional strengths, linked to artistic and cultural heritage, bind with the innovation, technology and quality of our products. This is why it was considered appropriate to include among the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation those relating to the redefinition of strategies and interventions of commercial and promotional policy with foreign countries and of support for the internationalization of the country's production system. With effect from the financial year 2020, the Fund for the implementation of actions in support of an extraordinary promotional campaign in favour of Made in Italy, currently included in the estimates of state budget expenditure relating to Mise, will be transferred to the estimates of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. In order to give support to the heart of our country system, we approved, during the examination in the referent, amendment 2.20, which provides that the Plan for the extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy will also have to guarantee support to micro and small enterprises for participation in European and international calls. However, the measure under consideration is also important for the legislation provided for in Article 3, which remodulates the appropriations for the revision of roles and careers and for the overtime payments of the Police and Armed Forces. We put in place a further intervention to the benefit of the operators of the Forces of the Order. With Article 3 we increase by 60.5 million euros annually, starting from 2020, the allocation of the Fund provided for by Article 35 of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018, whose sums are intended for the adoption of regulatory measures in the matter of reorganization of the roles and careers of the staff of the Police and Armed Forces, including the Harbour offices, and we allocate the resources necessary for the payment of the compensations for the extraordinary work performed by the staff of the Armed Forces engaged in the operation Roads Secure. The security of citizens - as President Conte has repeatedly said - is at the heart of this Government's political agenda. In this regard, we intend to pay close attention to the needs of women and men who work for it every day. For all the above reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u184	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 104 of 21 September 2019 on urgent provisions for the transfer of functions and for the reorganization of the Ministries for cultural goods and activities, agricultural food, forestry and tourism policies, economic development, foreign affairs and international cooperation, infrastructure and transport and the environment and for the protection of the territory and the sea, as well as for the remodulation of appropriations for the revision of roles and careers and for the extraordinary work of the Police and Armed Forces and for the continuity of the functions of the Authority for the guarantees in communications." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u187	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, on 9 March 2018, Trenitalia SpA published a European invitation to tender covering a negotiated procedure entirely managed by telematic systems, for the provision of the preventive and corrective maintenance service of the ETR 500 trains for a period of six years. At the outcome of the above-mentioned race, CAF Italia was assigned. Therefore, on 21 March 2019, the relevant contract was signed between Trenitalia SpA and CAF, relating precisely to that service. Subsequently, following the judgment of Tar Lazio of 3 July 2019, published on 3 October 2019, at the end of the judgment, the winner had been excluded and, therefore, the company that previously had the contract had returned to its height, with a number of workers. At the time when the previous company, Hitachi, had lost the ban, having arrived second, the workers merged into CAF Italy. After the aforementioned judgment, however, Hitachi, who was the second, came back to life and at this point CAF Italia provided 233 redundancies, which were the former workers of Hitachi. Today these workers are, unfortunately, involved in a collective dismissal procedure. And, therefore, we ask the competent Minister, in particular the Minister who must dialogue with Trenitalia, to protect the employment prospects of workers in order to prevent collective redundancies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u190	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, it is news these days that the odious problem of the caro-tickets, relating to flights to Sicily, is once again affecting those who are heading to the island, in this end of the year. For example, a Sicilian who intends to return home to spend Christmas with his family is forced to suffer a blood loss that goes beyond any acceptable measure. The same treatment suffers from the tourist who wants to visit Sicily in December, however contributing to the much desired seasonalization of the tourist activity. This happens because, at the end of the year, the cost of the tickets of the only low cost company operating to the Sicilian airports is around 300 euros, while a flight of the flag company nears 500 euros: practically an extortion. Colleagues, I denounce this scandal once again: for too many years it has been lucrating on the southern citizens, forced to bear a far too much expense, especially on the occasion of the festivities, but also on the economic interests of the South which, because of the questionable commercial policies of the carriers, finds obstacles in the development of tourist strategies of wide scope. Every Sicilian, every tourist would prefer to spend that money in another way, perhaps favoring the local trade, even through the purchase of Christmas gifts, rather than help create a surplus of revenues for the big airlines that apply, at that time, a targeted and presumptuous increase. It also happens that a family has more members who work or study outside of Sicily, and this causes the multiplication of costs or, even worse, places them in front of the unfortunate choice to meet for Christmas or, rather, to plan the return outside the period of greater increase of the prices of the airplanes. Even more serious is the issue in the light of what emerged from the Svimez report published a few days ago, which denounces how southern Italy is increasingly impoverishing itself of young people and not only: since the beginning of the new millennium, in fact, over 2 million under thirty-four people have left their loved ones in search of employment or simply a better perspective of life. If, on the one hand, you continue to emigrate from the South, on the other hand, there are enormous difficulties to return, even for a few days, on the occasion of the holidays. I believe it is our duty to give the greatest attention to the problem and to give an effective and timely response to the thousands of people who are not going through a happy time in dealing with these costs. I hope, therefore, that the Government, in agreement with ENAC and the Sicilian Region, will avert this unpleasant gift to the Sicilians, allowing to gather, at reasonable costs, our families and favor the tourist flows for Sicily, on the occasion of the next Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u191	This is a subject that is very close to my heart. Thank you, therefore, for having treated it and I agree with your remark that for a long time it has been the subject of numerous requests through the presentation of draft laws for territorial continuity. I hope that there will be broad convergence in calling into question and voting on those legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u194	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak today to recall the tragic alluvial events that shocked Piedmont in 1994. Twenty-five years have passed since, between 5 and 6 November 1994, the fury of water invaded the Piedmontese Provinces of Alexandria, Asti, Cuneo and Turin. Mud, death, despair and billions of lire of damage were what the flooding of the Tanaro, the Po and several tributaries left with their passage. There were 70 victims and over 2,000 displaced persons: these are numbers that continue to take their breath away and it is our duty to remember, commemorate and honor the victims. The first days of November 1994, the days of the flood and the next ones, were days of noise: the noise of the water that broke the banks, flooded the fields, the roads and the houses; the salvific noise of the means of rescue, the first shovels to remove the mud, the rustles. Despite the tools then available, far from the ones we have today, the world of information put itself at the service of people and the citizens organized themselves to communicate, inform and share. The Forces of Order, the firefighters - today we mourn among other things the three Firefighters who died in the Alexandrine - Civil Protection and the institutions worked tirelessly and had hundreds of volunteers at their side who rolled up their sleeves to help. Only what was born in terms of community service and solidarity can make the weight of lost lives less unbearable. Mr President, 25 years after that tragedy, it is our duty to remember, commemorate and honor the victims and those who faced the emergency. That, however, is not enough. The consequences of the weather events that have struck Piedmont and Liguria in the last weeks and in the last days demonstrate this. It is time to create in a shared way the conditions for our territories to be subjected to interventions that enable them to better resist the pressures of increasingly intense weather events. We must provide the regions and local authorities with the resources to minimise the risks. We must give life to concrete actions, such as, for example, intervention to tidy up the inadequate cadastral representation of the watercourses that need a re-delimitation of the hives. We are called upon to reduce with responsibility the excessive constraints that prevent the public and the private from making their contribution so that the territories are made more resilient. At the same time, we have a duty to design and implement wide-ranging public policies that really put the environment at the centre of attention, putting the conditions for real sustainability, which is also an economic sustainability. This is the path we must take so that our sincere words of remembrance are not misunderstood. And that is what we must do because the intentions follow the concreteness that the country wants and deserves.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u197	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, this is Question No 3 00975 of 2 July, for which I asked the Foreign Commission for an answer - and I would like to ask the answer - which relates to funding from the Italian Development Cooperation Agency which goes to Palestinian non-governmental organisations very close to organisations which are also declared terrorist by the European Union, as well as by other countries such as the United States, Canada and Israel. I have asked the Government to consider whether it knows the contiguity that I have documented in the text of my question and what measures it intends to take. When it comes to anti-Semitism, we must remember the Jews that are there today, who are for the largest part in the State of Israel; and the terrorists who want to strike the State of Israel - by chance - want to strike Jews. That said, in any case terrorist organisations should not receive direct or indirect aid from the Italian State at the expense of the taxpayer. Therefore, I think a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very appropriate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u198	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-163.ana.u199	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 7 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.31 a.m.
