ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on the communication from the President of the Council of Ministers. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, delivered the text of the programmatic declarations made to the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, in these intense summer months those of us who have committed ourselves to being here today have been very pleased to make available every day, in total humility, our own person at the service of the Italians, in the belief that no one alone can overcome the obstacles caused by a crisis of government. I participated in the dialogue not between political forces, but between people willing to sacrifice the time not of holidays, but that dedicated to their family, to the smile of their children, for the common good; and so I was able to evaluate, through comparison, the validity of some of my convictions. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group on the entry into the Chamber of the President of the Count Council]] Faced with an unusual situation caused by those who have tried on their own skin that the escapisms used in the past are no longer effective, the Movimento 5 stars has, with great courage, given a meaning to that change that perhaps, naively, we had deluded ourselves to be able to implement with a government contract. Working in their own place, with a sense of duty, without bringing actions back to a strong reason of interest, we have faced an irresponsible crisis with great conscience, giving a positive turn to the war of ultimatums with an increased awareness of the responsibilities that fall on this new Government. Without giving a sense of retaliation to situations, however, I believe that we must always respect everyone and understand the reasons that have led to certain attitudes. From here comes the need to deepen what happens looking in a disenchanted way to those who are facing us. While not wishing to enter into the substance of the crisis, it is undeniable that there has been some hasty decision. Perhaps there was no specific commitment on the duration of the contract, but acceptance yes, and it was legitimate and honest towards the Italians to commit for its duration. The 5-star Movimento has been faced over the years with an infinite number of civil, social, human and political issues and, in its post-ideological being, has made choices in line with this thought, rejecting solutions of impetus for weighted remedies of mediation and loyal confrontation. If we had not been able to change our position, without ever losing sight of the connection with the principles of our being in civil society, we would not have respected the will of the Italians and would not have saved democracy: yes, precisely that democracy on whose sense so abused must be better understood. The second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution states that power belongs to the people, but adds that the people exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; that Constitution which is precise in the division of tasks between the powers of the State; that does not assign the power to dissolve the Chambers to ministers or parliamentary groups and sets the duration of the legislature, and not of governments, in five years: not a random period, but well evaluated in the light of the fact that, even if the electoral approval may vary, not only is it necessary a period of time to properly assess the work of a Parliament to achieve the objectives, but it is also necessary to avoid handing over to the majority of Parliament an instrument likely to create abuse by it. Therefore, at a critical reading of the Constitution - and I say this as a jurist - the early elections, contemplated in the extreme ratio, are not the true democratic alternative. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Recalls of the President]] The persistence of a management of deviant powers, perhaps the result of a provocation, an emotional tension or a serious risk, and the electoral alternative as ephemeral testimony of a democracy equally deviant would only aggravate the situation of economic stagnation of the country, wearing down the forces. Beyond personal or party conveniences, it is necessary to examine the issues of politics giving space to the pact of loyalty with the Italians. Therefore, with the political forces that support the birth of this Government we have created a constructive contact, avoiding the confrontation polemic, to search if in those forces, in antithesis to us, there could be some point of approach on the way to settle issues of fundamental importance for the country. In this climate of confrontation, perhaps with some initial discomfort, we share a trust with approval on one side and on the other. That's the news. That's the change. In the logic of resuming the work done, we have concluded a program agreement to give a positive meaning to the new understanding, which is not a political majority, but has given a political sense to the facts enriching the confrontation on the basis of the needs of the country. Today is an important day for Italy and the 5 Star Movimento and our responsibility is great. The wish to all of us and to the new Government is always to walk together with the Italian people, because the present is ours and the future still belongs to us. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u5	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u6	VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Dignity, dignity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let the co-worker speak. Please, Senator Berardi, you have your say.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u7	Mr President, our colleagues said 'dignity'. I can say that we, as Forza Italia, have dignity and with it we remain quietly in the center-right to fight the left. [[Senator De Vecchis has a sign that says, "You're a baron, not a count."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u8	Please, no sign! Come on, let's not play.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u9	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President, and I hope I can make up for some lost time. President Conte, Ministers, colleagues and fellow senators, we are here today to talk about the left-wing government programme. Honestly, it was not expected, in early August, that all this could happen. I don't want to go so long because time is precious, but I read with curiosity and interest the whole program. First 10, then 20, 26 and 29 points. Finally, at the last point, I found something about agriculture. Finally, we are also talking about agriculture. Perhaps agriculture deserved to follow the alphabetical order and start with the letter a, not because the last is a disdainable place, but a greater attention would be well seen. Let's really hope there's something more. It is a nice program, well written and with many words, but something is missing: there are missing numbers, which are the ones that really make the difference to understand if the program will be positive or negative. As far as we are concerned, we lack the figure of one billion investment in defence, which we asked with great force not a few months ago, thanks also to Maurizio Gasparri and President Bernini. We need resources for our defence, to hire men and women, to buy means and to control the territory. What is needed is above all the control of the territory and that the State is really present in it. For example, there is a lack of numbers with regard to a subject that is dear to me, namely the stabilization of the school's precariousnesses, which are over 100,000 and have been waiting not for twenty months, but for someone even for twenty years and more, to finally have a quieter future for himself and his family and to teach our children with more tranquillity. Today more than ever... [[Brusio.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, if you would make a little silence, it would be preferable: time is not much and we cannot spend it whispering. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We could talk here about a lack of respect, because lately a little respect has also been lacking in this House and we should be the first to show respect, because - as my pastor friend says - chatter flies, examples drag. We should be an example for our Italy and for those who are watching us. We should be an example of duty, moral, civic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Finally, I want to say that respect also deserves it Forza Italia, without a doubt. Our history of twenty-five years deserves it and our President Silvio Berlusconi deserves it, whom I admired again yesterday and asked myself, as he spoke to us, who makes him do it. It simply makes him love our Italy, our territory, the desire not to leave our country in the hands of the left. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Forza Italia is this... [[At the entrance to the Hall of Senator Salvini the Senators of the Group L-SP-PSd'Az stand and applaud]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Matthew! Matthew! President. - Mr Berardi, your time has run out, but you will soon finish your speech. Mr Berardi (FI-BP). I'm sorry, but I was fascinated by the allies' applause. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's too much confusion. I would like the debate to take place so that we can listen to everyone's thoughts and, therefore, with some tranquility. Finish quickly, for his time for the truth was already over. Mr Berardi (FI-BP). I was talking about our President Silvio Berlusconi, about the love he has for Italy, about the love he gives us every time, really, to fight the left. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Forza Italia was born twenty-five years ago to fight the left, to create the center-right and we will follow it in the future because, as long as there is even one crumb of freedom and democracy to defend, Forza Italia will be there, we will be there, Silvio Berlusconi will be there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and L-SP-PSd'Az]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u10	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to say that if I cannot read my entire speech, I reserve the right to deliver the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u12	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u13	DE FALCO (Mixed). The statements made by President Conte are based on a scenario that is not legislative - as is evident - but extends over several generations. The concept is plastically demonstrated by the reference made right in the beginning of his speech, placing at the first point the kindergartens, understood - look out - as a perfect subjective right, as he later pointed out in the reply. It is clear from the literal content of your speech, Professor Conte, that we are dealing not with a final programme but with a preliminary draft, in which the ambition of the project does not correspond to indications, albeit general, for example on the sources from which we intend to draw the considerable economic resources needed. Nor is it said whether it is intended to further burden employees and pensioners, who are already contributing 85% of their revenue to tax revenue today; or whether it should be considered that those additional expenditures will be put in deficit. In this case, however, a bad signal would be given, since the first discontinuity of the new Government must obviously be an attitude of seriousness and exceed the limits would certainly not be so, except in relation to direct expansionary investments. In this respect, it must also be borne in mind that GDP will only grow this year by about 0.4% and not by 0.8%, as predicted. As a result, the deficit-GDP ratio will not be 1.8%, but will reach a rate of 2.4%. It is clear, therefore, that even if the new European Commission were benevolent and allowed greater flexibility, this could only result in a few decimal points, sufficient for a few billion, but not able to cover and implement that programme as ambitious as it is generic. President, the announcement of the partial revision of the parts of the security-a decree, subject to amendments to the Chamber, seems to present the same insufficiency and the same generality because those norms, creating an insatiable contrast with international norms, must be disapplied. It is clear that, if the demolition operation were minimal and limited to the publication of the amendments - as you said yesterday - it would be completely unsatisfactory even with respect to the simple but fundamental remarks made by the President of the Republic. In particular, because of the lack of proportionality between conduct and sanction and the fact that, with reference to the violation of the immigration rules, no preventive criterion has been introduced to distinguish the various situations regarding the type of ships, the conduct concretely put in place, the reasons for the presence of the persons received on board and transported, does not seem reasonable - the President noted - for the safety of our citizens and above all - I emphasize - of the certainty of the law, to do without these indications. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Get back on the ship! DE FALCO (Mixed). The assessment of conduct leading to sanctions of such seriousness is left to an administrative act. Parliament must establish those criteria in advance. In other respects, it should be noted that the President of the Council, during the previous Government, has often been committed to allowing the survival of that Government in any way despite the clear inadequacy of certain components. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, a few months ago I asked the Senators of the Movimento 5 Star Group to find within themselves the courage to express freely their conscience. President Conte, I now ask you from this very bench to find the courage to show seriousness and discontinuity. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u15	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the new Executive who is coming to this House today to ask for confidence is first and foremost the complete expression of the democratic antibodies that our Constitutional Charter has prudently envisaged in order to reject authoritarian disbandments and react to populist drifts. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am talking about the drifts and drifts that we have witnessed in the last fifteen months and that have reached the acme with the extravagant demand for full powers by the Minister Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It was our civil duty to stop this mess, this slap in the face of history. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The confidence of this government is therefore cemented today in a political pact that intends definitively to close a season of hatred and resentment, of inflated electoral consensus, squeezing the humiliated dignity of men, women and girls immigrants, escaped from hunger and wars. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bibbiano! Bibbiano! Bibbiano! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will then express what they think. That is precisely why there is a wide-ranging debate. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Let's get everyone to say what they think. It is a season in which it has been blown on the fire of a racism that, like incandescent magma, has burned the rules of living solidarity and acceptance, multiplying feelings that seemed forgotten and episodes more and more frequent, shamefully gruesome as - last only in order of time - the football that flew for a couple of meters a child of color of just three years - and I repeat three years - guilty of curiosity [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] innocent, who - alive God - know how to have children, of having approached an Italian child. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bibbiano! Bibbiano! Bibbiano! MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Children are all the same! [[Call the president back.]] These are actions, examples, episodes that reflect how violent bubbles are now on social networks, properly aired with storms of insults, outrages and fake news that do not belong to our culture and that paradoxically have been fueled by an organizational machine, the so-called beast, which is also supported with public money. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What happened to the neo-Minimum Bellanova and De Micheli - I would also say in this House - is that the following of insults and offenses, of insults and even sexist statements is the representation of a society raped by the same violence, the victim of a barbarism that can no longer be tolerated in any way. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bibbiano! Bibbiano! Bibbiano! [[Call the president back.]] For this reason we find ourselves in harmony with the choice, well motivated by Prime Minister Conte and supported by the programmatic dimension, of wanting to turn the page to embrace a milder, more sober language, as a real figure of a turning government; a language finally civil, polite, correct, respectful of the dignity of people always and anyway; a language that first of all we representatives of the institutions have the duty to practice. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With today, however, the season of the unpublished transformations of institutional posts in DJ console, the season of beaches and mojito favorites to institutional tables, to the fatigue of the dossiers, to the deepenings [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , except that he does not want to give up his chair as Minister, or remain attached to those of Presidents of the Parliamentary Commissions for the sole purpose of trying to prevent the legislative activity and a legitimate government. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are a parliamentary democracy. STEFANO (PD). It is a very serious threat to want to stop legislative activity, because a government may or may not like it, but when it receives Parliament's confidence, it is still legitimate, always: it was fifteen months ago and it is today. This is how a parliamentary democracy works. Today, with the confidence of this Government, we intend to put the health of the Republican institutions at the centre of the political debate and with it that of the pockets of the Italians, finally sheltered from the noise of warlike and roboating statements, which have caused devastating effects on our international credibility and on public finance. If we had adopted the Volfefe Index, inspired today in America by the effects of Trump's declarations, we would certainly have measured world records, but with the result that we had created a very worrying economic picture. It must be clear, in fact, that the economic scenario on which Italy is floating today remains that of stagnation and we are aware that a Government that is born only against Salvini will not suffice. But we have before us two different opportunities that allow us to look to the future with renewed optimism. The first opportunity passes through Europe: Italy has finally come out of a phase of isolation that unfortunately someone had induced and has already found its protagonism in a Europe that belongs to us for history and culture. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a Europe that, with this change of perspective, has immediately acknowledged to us the opportunity of a leading role in the structures being defined and that today already shares with our country the need for a process of revision of the Stability and Growth Pact, that is to say the need to rethink its policies in a more expansive sense and to invest more and more fully in the field of growth. This new opportunity is also associated with the positive assessment of the financial markets, often with the withdrawal of interest rates and the immediate resumption of the stock exchange. It becomes a milestone comparison then the current trend, with the data provided just a couple of days ago by the Observatory on Italian public accounts, according to which the outgoing Government has cost us 20 billion euros more only for greater interest on the debt: 20 billion, a crazy figure, plastic proof that we are not a country victim of who knows what plots of international finance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Quite simply foreign investors base their assessments on credibility... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP: Nooo! Unfortunately, the time is up! [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u16	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u17	STEFANO (PD). Let me finish, Mr. President, you didn't let me talk for a second. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. STEFANO (PD). As I said, foreign investors very simply base their assessments on the credibility of the institutions and their representatives. I understand that it is difficult for some to admit it and it is difficult to discuss these mistakes. It is easier to gather a handful of militants in the squares, chanting to the plot. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u18	Conclude, Senator Stefano. Please respect your times too; among other things, the time at your disposal is already over.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u19	STEFANO (PD). That is the easiest way when you do not want to admit that you have failed the blow, imagining in an apotheosis of supposition that you can distrust a government of which you are part and that you can alone cliff the Chambers and also call elections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Stefano, finish. STEFANO (PD). I'll finish, Mr. President. As I said, we have before us - Government and majority - the opportunity to make the best use of the positive conditions that have opened up with this change of scenery that leads us to the overcoming of a sovereignist and populist government: an opportunity that we have the duty to optimize... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're overreacting, Senator Stephen, finish. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] No applause, please. Even before I invited Senator De Falco to respect the times; we determined them. I told her to finish, so I'll finish. STEFANO (PD). With all due respect to you, Mr President, I shall conclude, but you must give me the right to speak: I cannot be interrupted all the time, because the eight minutes are spent... [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u20	I just told her to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u21	Please finish. STEFANO (PD). The upcoming appointment with the budget session can in this sense help the new Government to lay the foundations for immediately setting up a medium-term perspective, provided that clear and counter-trendary choices are made. So this is a necessary government to bring our country back to the centre of international political attention, to cancel the European isolation in which we were relegated, to respond to constitutional illiteracy. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Time! STEFANO (PD). I'm done. This is a necessary government for us and for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the remaining part of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u22	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Stephen. I made it clear yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders that each Group has determined itself in time. And I also said that when the time was up, I would have the microphone turned off, and then I would take the word off. I had forewarned, so stick strictly to the times and let us not give rise to unnecessary polemics on these issues. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u23	Mr President, Government, colleagues, with a little irony and a little provocation, examine your programme, which seems to cost EUR 50 billion. The President-in-Office of the Council and some ministers, who have not been elected but appointed (a criterion which I do not agree with), I would like to know who they answer, with whom they speak on Saturday and Sunday, because they vote (if they vote). As far as the economy is concerned, we have discovered that public debt is an independent variable. Now Europe is our friend, Macron and Merkel love us, we can make more deficits and we can give up sovereignty. VAT will only be increased for some genera, all payments will be drawn, even at the bar and restaurant you will no longer use cash; and these are measures that help the poor. With regard to investment, the Minister who solved the earthquake post says yes, while the 5 Star Movimento calls for an adjustment. The TAV, waiting for your expert (that of the 5 Stars) to clarify the kilometers, the millions and the billions, will be done? Has she left yet? For Asti-Cuneo, which I care about, being in my Province, will you put in the blender the two recipes, Delrio and Toninelli? We do the contracts or not, why is there the danger of the mob and we have to ask the President of the Antimafia? With Ilva, we're gonna play a playground. As for Alitalia, we give 900 million euros; let it fail quietly. As far as local authorities and provinces are concerned, the streets are ravaged, high schools are a disaster; but it is an optical illusion. For the municipalities, I recommend, block the surplus, block the contributions, obligate the associated managements. As for immigration, come all, NGOs are good people, legalists. Let's give the ius solo to those born and parents and also grandparents come to operate on cataracts and hernias. You're against Italy. The withdrawal of motorway concessions costs EUR 25 or 30 billion. It's okay. We got a lot of money. Did they give us a ticket on xylella? It doesn't matter, it wasn't. The incinerators? We will do separate collection (we will do); for now we will ship to Germany, because we can Let's have it. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). We don't want them in the North! PEROSIN (FI-BP). As for public water, 300 liters free at all; 3,000 is fine the same. Investments with general taxation: which? Differentiated autonomy: we talked for months and years, but it was a joke, maybe we will do it by pretending. Will you be with Venezuela in Maduro or with the opposition in foreign policy? We've seen great theaters in here. Finally, the apotheosis with ethically sensitive issues: free drugs for all and on the Constitutional Court order we do not legislate: we will arrive at assisted suicide, which is the antechamber of euthanasia. The uterus for rent, the gay adoptions, the gender: all perversions against nature. The family is only one, the birth rate is made, as the Family Forum says, with a single, financial, dry and substantial help. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Please return to reality, abandon the virtual and don't take us to the Apocalypse. Even without the permission of the politically correct, I pray the Madonna, St. Francis and St. Catherine, patrons of Italy, and St. Pius of Pietralcina, who was a good, to protect us. More Italy within its borders, more Christian civilization, more order and security. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u24	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u25	Mr President, here we are again in the Senate Chamber to comment on Professor Conte's businesses. The other time, Professor, at the end of my speech, I asked if he would be available to another government after Count 1, without receiving an answer in his reply. But the answer was then given to us, with his deeds, with his actions and with his acts. Then I asked her, as elected MP in the city of Perugia, in Central Italy, in Umbria, what she thought could be done and why in her speech had been neglected the theme and problems of the earthquake populations of Central Italy. I would start from these two passages, commenting on the great grace with which you, Professor, went from a sovereign government to a post-communist government, as we can safely call it. How else to define this passage, if not a graceful flight from Salvini to Boldrini? It's not exactly the best for how you try to represent yourself, as a man in one piece. Some were just talking about the forces that make up the majority, but these are not forces, professor, they are three great weaknesses: the weakness of the communism of the 5 Stars, which we can safely call unconscious communists (unaware of everything, even of being communists); the weakness of the communism of the PD, which we could call a communism of which they are ashamed (they are repentant to be communists, but what they do today qualifies them and comments on it) and the communism of LEU, which in the end is the only one I feel to respect, a paleolithic communism, nostalgic, but that at least holds a flag. These three weaknesses, however, professor, actually hide and conceal the real strength of this Government, which is the spread. This is the Government of the Spread, the Government that miraculously, in a political, institutional and social situation that should greatly worry the so-called markets, has seen the decline of the Spread triumph. So you, professor, as a very good lawyer jumped from one client to another: we can say that you did nothing but this and you yourself qualified or promised that you would be the lawyer of the Italians. So why not? As a good professional, as a good lawyer one fee is worth the other and so why not switch from Italians to Europeans? Professor, in reality the landscape of your clientele has widened: today you are the lawyer of the Europeans, the lawyer of the spread, the lawyer who defends the interests of those who move the pawns of the financial markets, but not the real economy, not the real one. Professor, you see, looking at the people who came to Rome yesterday, I was wondering what he would ask you. Actually, Professor, those people with you don't talk, because that's the real world, it's the world of those who wait for answers to everyday problems. I represent that world and I'm proud to represent it. You are not able to give answers, you cannot give them because your ears listen to other worlds, other messages and other logics. But we will bring this world back to this House. At last, the right to be represented here will return. I come to the conclusion, Mr President, because I see that the microphone flashes under my nose and I get a little nervous about it. You see, Professor, you are causing a serious vulnus: the rupture of a pact between the citizen and the institutions representing him; between the electoral citizen and the representative institutions. Yes, it is true that we are a parliamentary republic, but it is always true that the citizen is sovereign and not - with a slogan - banally sovereignist. It is a direct and immediate relationship between the citizen and his representatives that you, with your attitudes and your way of doing, have irreversibly broken. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u27	Mr President, I do not think there is much to add to the vehement words of our Parent Company in the House, Mr Molinari, except for one remark. Molinari correctly reminded you, President Conte, that you knew that you were the Premier of a strongly critical majority towards the current European structures. I would add, President Conte, that we too knew what his path was. We knew, like everyone else, and as you yourself publicly admitted, that this path was linked to PD. We knew, in short, that you were a Premier of guarantee, not of change, but of continuity: a requirement complementary to that of change, and equally noble if you loyally agitate. Personally, it didn't surprise me or bother me. I did not go into politics to state my reasons: for that I have the scientific fora; I entered to question them. He will give me notice that he respected his political sensitivity, declaring my premises of value but adapting myself to his because, under the terms of the formal Constitution - that material is a bit different - she was the supreme holder of the function of political direction. It will show me that it has tried to establish a frank and constructive dialogue. I want to continue today in this spirit as well, at a time when talking about cooperation between us is unfortunately becoming somewhat inappropriate, for the simple reason that I know that I have done what you have asked me to do, but I also know that you have not done what I have asked you - not on a personal, but on an institutional basis - to do: involve Parliament in the dialogue with Europe. Outside, we are colleagues, we do a job for which we need two qualities: ambition and intellectual curiosity. You certainly have one of these qualities. Assuming that he also owns the other, let me give you some information on the current situation in Europe. Allow me, in all humility, to put my responsibilities which, albeit scarce, have brought me here, as elected [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Zaffini]] , at the service of the need you rightly expressed to get prepared at the European tables. The European Union has long demonised expansive fiscal policies, for the simple fact that a system that had been deprived of the exchange rate adjustment mechanism needed to unload external shocks, the decline in demand from other countries on the labour market: from competitive devaluation we have switched to competitive unemployment, necessary to lower wages and make competitive, i.e. - translate - affordable in terms of price, national goods. This wicked game to the bottom initially crushed the weak countries: architect of this period was my colleague Monti This, however, was also the branch on which the mighty and shortsighted Germany sat. Sawing this branch, Germany today confronts a sad truth: those who live by exporting goods to others die by importing the problems of others. When growth is not supported by domestic demand (investment in infrastructure, decent wages that guarantee adequate levels of consumption), any sneeze in China or the United States can turn into a hurricane in its own home; which is then what is happening to Germany, and I fall back to us. All European economic policy has been turned to the sole interest of the hegemony power to take it away from the mud in which it has been driven. So - and this is the politically relevant point for us and for her - Draghi printed coin because it was and is convenient to Germany, not to us (a reason for which I find a little out of place, as well as vaguely iectatory, his process of canonization ante mortem). But monetary policy is a rope: you can use it to pull, not to push. Money doesn't help if the horse of the economy doesn't drink. And then, at last, the European Union will change the tax rules to allow the public sector to make those investments that the private sector cannot or does not want to make, and it will do so because it suits Germany, certainly not because it is subjugated by the intellectual stature - which I do not question - of Mr Gentiloni Silveri. I urge you, Mr President, especially now that you are explicitly and proudly Premier of an ex-Marxist government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] to discern the objective dynamics, the structure from the superstructure; otherwise it risks to make mistakes. Those in the trade know that the decision to change European rules has already been made: it is from last September (and even before) that the so-called good ones, those in the circuit of think tanks financed by the ECB and the European Union, ask it on the right blogs. And we in the trade know that what the "dogs of power" ask, barking from their bed, two years later we find ourselves on the table in the form of a European directive. So, on the one hand, this change of rules that we are talking about is not a gesture of respect for the future Executive which you will probably be chairing and, on the other hand, it must be stressed that it is certainly a mistake to appear with the hat in the hands of the European fora to ask for clemency on budgetary rules at a time when this clemency is not so convenient to us as to them. It would be enough to wait and avoid - as has unfortunately happened - being taken as a sportellate with proud security by the Chancellor of a country where many banks have failed in disorder and hopeless: Austria. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind you that your statement that you want to be the defending lawyer for the Italian people, who aroused the enthusiasm of many and also mine, is of particular value today and it would be nice if you took it seriously. This is because at a time when Europe tells us that it will change the rules implicitly confesses that they were irrational and Italy would need a good lawyer to ask the European Union to reconsider the damage it caused us by imposing obedience to these absurd rules. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I fear that instead we will continue to be blessed with a supine and subalternal attitude, hoping that from this subalternity and from this obedience to rules that other countries make and undo at their convenience can come something else for our country than social and economic chaos. I can see in this, Mr President, a deeper limit than a political limit: in all the evidence here we are faced with a cultural limit. I understand that it is difficult for those who have followed another disciplinary course to realize how foolish the economic governance of the Union is, and also how old is what some left-wing leaders call neoliberalism. Historians know - because it is in the act - that the word austerity was inserted in the vocabulary of the economy by Mussolini De Stefani's minister. And I would like to remind you that all the measures of economic policy that we implicitly or explicitly propose to implement from the defence of quota 90 to privatizations, were advocated by fascism, yesterday as today, under the moral suasion of the great international investors. This is history, it's not conspiracy. There are scientific essays of a science that like law does not avail itself of mathematical formulas, but that nevertheless is a science. But you have forgotten history, because you are determined to repeat it. Working with you, Mr Conte, I have proposed to solve, with the intellectual support of our excellent officials, a problem of method: that of involving Parliament, as the law requires and as happens in other countries, in the negotiations with the Union. I was strong in his commitment to respect the centrality of Parliament. But obviously, to some surprise, you are not interested in the method: it only affects the results and its result today may have achieved it. That is why I can only congratulate you and assure you of a firm, but always loyal and constructive opposition. Our Group - needless to say - will vote against the Senate's confidence (it is not up to me to repeat this) as it voted against the House. But there is one thing I would like to say to the many colleagues who are at this moment troubled, afflicted by a labor with the tiny "T" but no less lancinating. I am particularly addressing those colleagues who, if they are troubled, are precisely because more than others have believed in change. Here, to those colleagues - who I continue to respect and estimate - I would like to communicate with serenity, without disbelief, but also in an absolutely clear and factual way, my experience: those who believe in change will not find space in a Government directed by an intelligent, ambitious, unscrupulous politician, who has given himself as a mission (or accepted as a mission) that of ensuring not change, but continuity [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] As a guarantee - and I stress this - it is quite legitimate, of course. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen (with whom I have had and hope to continue to have a cordial relationship), think carefully about what you are doing. I wish all of us, inside and out of here, a long and healthy biological life. I also wish those who wish it a long political life; how long the political life of some of us will be decided today: the Italians observe us, the Italians will judge. Long live democracy! Long live Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u28	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the country, because it concerns the future of Italy and beyond. In the programmatic points illustrated by President Giuseppe Conte, as an oceanographer even before that as a parliamentarians, I cannot fail to appreciate the great attention given to the protection of natural ecosystems, both terrestrial and marine. For the first time I saw the word "mare" in a government program. This is an inevitable focus today, because the coming years will most likely be the last to be able to act effectively for the protection of our planet. During the G7 of the Presidents of Parliament, which ended just a few days ago, the amendment by President Fico, which recognises the oceans as a common good, was unanimously adopted. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] This is the direction in which we must go: to break down the old socio-economic paradigms and establish new ones, which aim at the birth of the culture of respect. The culture of respect for the Earth, our home, respect for neighbour; because the sea has always represented the union of peoples, life. By learning to respect the sea, we will learn to respect ourselves, understood as a great community of human beings. We are a Mediterranean people, let us not forget that. The sea is a huge wealth. The blue economy is the future that can no longer be ignored. In Italy we have 8,000 kilometers of coast: an immense heritage to protect, but also invaluable source of well-being. I am thinking of tourism, fishing, diportism, renewable energy, trade, scientific research, which will have to have environmental sustainability as its central focus. In the government program we talk about green new deal, that is a new green agenda, braver, that serves to start an ecological and energy transition of the new economy. The current environmental emergency obliges us to have a bold plan, aimed at protecting biodiversity, combating climate change, increasing renewable and sustainable energy, and a revolution in the waste system towards the circular economy. All this must no longer be understood as an economic expenditure, but as the real revival of our economy: there is money in this sector. The environmental crisis also leads us to a necessary re-reading of the fundamental values to be included in our Constitution, the right to water first. It is not, of course, a challenge that we can face alone: the commitment must be shared by everyone and the election of the new President of the European Commission gives us hope. Putting an end to the environmental crisis must be a commitment that policy must take on. Italy, as part of the new policy outlined by the EIB, must promote the project aimed at blocking funding for fossil fuels. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] There are many points in the government programme in this regard. No more incinerators, no more drills, no more soil consumption. We must secure our territories: which means reclamations, conversion of production systems and contrast to hydrogeological failure, also through a serious environmental policy that points to biological productions, therefore sustainable. The contrast to the land of fires, throughout Italy, and the pollution that devastates wonderful places, such as the one from which I come, which is crossed by the Sarno river, one of the most polluted in Europe, and which must become an opportunity for cultural development, as it also crosses the city of Pompeii, unique in the world. I can only be grateful to President Conte for having renewed confidence in Minister Costa and happy to be able to put my skills in parliamentary work. In any case, as a representative of the citizens, I will continue to monitor the work of the Government and take every necessary initiative to ensure that this activity always complies with our fundamental law, which, I would like to remind you, Article 9, therefore, in the part dedicated to the fundamental principles that define our constitutional order, states that the Republic protects the landscape. I am convinced that voting for this government today means giving hope to our country. Enough hate, enough poison: that this Government represents a peace pact for the Earth. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u30	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u31	Mr President, the contribution made for a year by you, Mr Conte, and by all yours to the growth of a sovereignist League is something that we no longer talk about. Yet for many today, as for me, you are called precisely to remedy this. In fact, it is you who form this Government of democratic emergency against the danger of an extreme right, the liberal and sovereignist, which you have incubated, fed and made grow in these fourteen months of the yellow-green government. Honor to you, if the government had fallen on the Diciotti. Today, in order for there to be a real discontinuity, we must first restore the legality and justice denied by the Salvini decrees, which attacked the constitutional rights of the person and the right to strike and political dissent, and work on a serious immigration law. Our cultural and humanitarian heritage is the result of the experience of totalitarianism and war in Europe. We have a duty to defend our identity of values and our roots. I am thinking of Article 2 of the single text on immigration and Article 40 of the Charter, for which the right to strike is a constitutional right, while, in fascism, it was considered a crime. We must also face a new period of civil rights, on which a veto had been set and on which a heavy black cloth has fallen. Politics must strive to remove obstacles to the effective participation and the political, economic and social organization of the country of all, without discrimination. The recognition of gender equality and identity, Mr President, also of LGBT communities, awaits from politics signs and solutions. On the social rights listed, at work, income and security, the proposals for a real reduction of social and economic disparities (outside the flat tax, finally, the right to housing, a fairer health care and a healthier environment) are reiterated objectives, as well as those to combat tax evasion, corruption, mafias, conflict of interest, which we share and on which we await the comparison on concrete proposals. It would also take courage for a contribution of solidarity, to deal with the many emergencies, if we really want to be concrete and consistent about what has been declared. The Italian contribution to the revision of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) will certainly be decisive. It would take a law on parties, to reaffirm the division of powers, to reform politics and restore centrality to Parliament. [[Senator Laus takes some pictures with his cell phone. Call the president back.]] Instead, we insist on reducing the number of Members, which is based on propagandistic, fallacious and inconsistent assumptions. If we continue in that direction, on which I am no longer called to express myself, I hope a referendum for no will be opened. There is still an emphasis on the issue of differentiated autonomy, although the relevant hearings have clarified how much coverage for this operation, first achieving the essential levels of performance, is economically unworkable. On the other hand, the disparity in expenditure and investment in the South requires a very heavy policy of rebalancing. The programmatic points presented by the new Government relaunch a green new deal, however they do not provide for the statement of climate emergency by Parliament and the Italian Government, for which in just two days 50,000 signatures were collected online. It is necessary to put all the social and productive partners around a table in order to work on a national structural conversion plan that puts environmental sustainability at the centre. We must give many answers on Ilva, on TAP, on pollution and reclamations, but an immediate response can come immediately. Today, 10 September, at the meeting of the European Investment Bank in Zagreb, there is a strong stop to the financing of fossil fuel projects: this is an important change of strategy and it will be decisive what Italy will do. Moreover, the government must immediately put its hands on the SADs in the budget law: more than 16 billion euros are spent on environmentally harmful subsidies each year. In order to decombust the economy and promote environmentally-friendly activities, incentives must be gradually shifted from harmful ones to favourable ones and VAT should be adjusted on the life cycle of each product, on the ecological footprint and on the environmental cost. About all this, we'll see. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u32	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u33	Mr President, the new Conte Government was born from the crisis of last August, wanted by Senator Salvini. On a political level, he opened it by imagining great electoral profits and full powers for himself. On the personal level, however, they probably weighed the travels of his former spokesman to Russia, where, as we know, nothing happens without Putin's knowledge. Salvini knows all this and has taken it into account. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If the government that is being born will be of short duration and weak action - I remind President Conte - it would mean that today, granting him confidence, we would be giving a great gift to that sovereignism and to that authoritarianism that, as Senator Monti reminded us a few days ago, are always looming. But it won't be. It is up to us to ensure that the government can live up to such a turbulent phase. I will vote for the confidence that President Conte - whose attention I draw, because I think he is busy in a conversation that perhaps is not his own while speaking in the Chamber - will lead the government's policy with a stronger hand than he has been allowed to do in his previous experience and will maintain its unity of direction and coordinate the work of the Ministers as the Constitution requires. I also see that a political government is being created, formed on the basis of a political agreement, and that the President is not a President-in-Office, which Italy does not need today, but a political President, with an ancient and strong link with the relative majority party that proposed it. A political president to lead a political government, then. But also a President who will guarantee not only his share, but the entire coalition that is giving him confidence. At a personal level, Mr Conte, allow me to express the hope that your new experience will lead you to call yourself no longer populist, as you said in this House fifteen months ago, but popular. It is not only the Government that must reflect on its responsibilities; Parliament must also do so. And I want to tell my colleagues in the PD, the Movimento 5 Stars and the LEU that the decision to support by our votes the Conte Government must be taken in full confidence of the commitment we are making. Until a few weeks ago our groups were proud political opponents, we fought and sometimes we even went too far. With the vote of confidence we make an alliance that, if it were ephemeral, would lead to our political suicide. If it is lasting and profitable, it can help Italy stay in Europe, strengthen democracy and overcome the most difficult economic and social crisis of the last seventy years. To this end, President Conte asked the political forces of majority cohesion of spirit and loyalty. It is a right and necessary request, but often in Italy governments have fallen not because of the lack of loyalty in relations between parties, but, even more so, because of tensions, differences and competitions within parties. Let's not hide behind a finger. Never before, with a government supported by parliamentary groups with such distant roots, the internal unity of the majority groups has become essential for the stability of the government and the duration of the legislature. I say this in summary: the majority and the government have in their hands their destiny and can make ends meet, if they want, with all the fractions of the case, or fight with loyalty to mature something new and positive in Italian politics, knowing that to really change and get where only a few weeks ago we all thought it was impossible to get, we must first change a lot of ourselves and our prejudices. The President of the Council announced some changes to the Constitution, but - I think for lack of time - he did not dwell on the node that is most infecting the institutional estate of our country and many other Western nations: the decline of democracy as we have known it so far. It is an alarm that should be an assailant for us, but it is not. I was impressed that the delicate negotiation for the formation of the government was put at risk by an online consultation on the Rousseau platform. Many have questioned the technical characteristics and hold of the platform; it may be, but that is absolutely not the point. The point is that the use of the Rousseau platform in the final phase of the crisis clearly testifies to the fact that in Parliament there are very different conceptions of the meaning to be given to the word "democracy". I am not talking about the frequent unconstitutional use of urgent decrees, nor of the Commission's stable invasion of legislative power. These practices already show a serious disease in the system. I am thinking of something more serious: the will of the people and how they should express themselves. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Whether it should be expressed through a representative system or directly; whether parliamentarians should be representatives of the people or its spokesmen. When it speaks of democracy, the whole Democratic Party means the representative democracy of our Constitution and thinks of Parliament as the only sovereign body. The entire Movimento 5 Stars supports the model of direct or telematic democracy and attaches prevailing force to the Rousseau platform, so much so that if days ago its response had been negative, the entire constitutional process for the solution of the crisis would be shattered. In illustrating the programme, President Conte, you spoke of rights, reforms, investments and infrastructure. And he is certainly right, because we need all this; but even more we need a long thought, new ideas, science and culture because it is only with a great vision and a very wide horizon that we can rebuild Italy. Thought and ideas are the first food of politics and it would be very serious if we underestimated its strength, even in times like ours, dominated more by the anxiety of doing quickly than by the desire to think. There was a time when these values lived solidly within our national consciousness. Let's think about how our country was able to be born again after World War II. Of course, there was the work and initiative of the Italians, the aid of the allies, the anti-fascist policy, but the glue that held us together were representative democracy, the strength of ideals, the cultural vivacity of the country, our creative imagination, the thought and culture of the intermediate bodies. It has been years in which, despite the Berlin Wall and the different ideologies, no one has closed himself, no one has gone back. That is the policy that we must help to be born again, Mr President. You and the Government can support Italy that tries to find itself again. You can do so in many ways, especially not by evading problems, but rather by facing them with an open face. I believe - and I say this to President Casellati and President Conte - that, properly prepared and educated, it can be a special session of the Senate to address the issue of issues, the issue from which all the others descend: what is the model of democracy that serves Italy in the third millennium. Should we strengthen the representative democracy desired by the Constitution or should we introduce direct democracy? Or choose a mixed system? Which one? Colleagues of the majority, I am putting the democratic question today, because the time we have left is now very little. When a very powerful ruler believes that it is time to ask for full powers for himself and does not respond immediately to Parliament, it means that the risk of the transformation of parliamentary democracy into an authoritarian system has become concrete and current. To this danger the two forces that support the Government reacted, removing from the hands of Matteo Salvini the power of which for fifteen months he used with ease. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But it will not be enough if we are unable to make our democracy more stable and more efficient without vaccinating it from Peronist or Putinian temptations. The phase we live in needs a long view, President Conte, and you don't fear flying high. You can do that and you can ask your ministers to do it with you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a change of political paradigm, not only for the replacement of one party with another - the League enters the PD - but I understand that President Conte has intended to inaugurate, if this Government will also gain the confidence of this House, a different season, a change of paradigm within the meaning of Article 95 of the Constitution: the President of the Council is no longer arbitration between two parties, but the one who intends to present a programme. This programme, however, stems from the understanding between two political forces that have been opposed in all these years, born around 29 policy points that say everything and the opposite of everything, from the reduction of the number of parliamentarians to the green economy, not to mention the just elimination of inequalities, to the peace in the world and - why not? - to the phenomenology of the spirit. I mean, there's everything, but I'd like to go back to an ancient Latin broker: ubi lex voluit dixit, ubi noluit tacuit. Here's the thing. We are a little concerned, dear President, when compared to the previous government contract, which we have completely opposed, it was clear what was being said, namely that there would be no increase in capital taxation. You, on the other hand, in your speech of over 7,300 words yesterday did not spend a single sentence to attack the endemic evil of our current economic system and, that is, the strong taxation that weighs not only on families and businesses, but on the real estate sector as a whole. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I quote from Confébuilding data: 23 billion between IMU and Tasi and 50 billion for the sector as a whole. The result is that we are in recession: the value of our homes has fallen from 30 to 50 percent. Let's go to the justice sector. The past year was horrible: it was a year of gallows. Minister Bonafede is here. It was a year in which, in agreement with the League, you decided to abandon - here we will see the Democratic Party's estate compared to the reforms it had tried to make in the previous Government - the path of the reform of telephone interceptions; you have abandoned the path of the reform of the penitentiary administration, except to indicate "few lire" to change the light bulbs and for an absolutely futuristic and unimaginable project of remaking prisons. The problem lies in the search for alternative measures to detention. Only in this way can we try to be a modern country in step with the guidelines that the European Court of Justice has long indicated. The climax of vision - we all know - was the jusnaturalistic anxiety that emerged from the so-called corrupt sweep. It is a law to unconstitutional evidence, at least as far as two points are concerned. The first is, in my opinion, the most serious and the result of a compromise. The clock is marching and in January 2020 the prescription reform will come into force. I want to see what you Democratic Party will do, which you will find in agreement. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I see the microphone has been turned off. Have I consumed my time yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I hope and hope that there will be a regurgitation of attention to more guaranteed demands. I conclude my speech because space is really short. In these days of crisis and in this phenomenology of the crisis we have heard the most varied epithets: turncoats, armchairs, the most delicate was transformationism, which is an old practice of our parliamentary democracy dating back to Depretis. I would like to remind the friends of the League that in the second Republic the first example of transformation took place when Bossi, together with D'Alema, put an end to the Berlusconi government by having Dini installed. I think the world needs more heroes than strategic retreat... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u36	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u37	BY MAS (FI-BP). I'm finishing. The retreat is one of the most difficult military operations, as von Clausewitz said. I've seen great clumsy these days. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u38	Mr President, I am speaking briefly to reiterate a fundamental concept, namely that the only coherent political force in this Parliament is called the Brothers of Italy. In 2018 we presented ourselves at the elections with our party within a center-right coalition, considering that for us alliances with those who are opposed to our way of thinking and acting are unnatural and impossible. We didn't just say it, we also did it: we went to the vote together with the friends of the League, we told them that they were wrong to ally with the 5 Stars and we were proud of the opposition; after fourteen months the Legist friends proved us right and now we welcome them back in the ranks of the center-right, next to us and against a left here represented by the new PD and 5 Star government forces. If we were to vote today, this Parliament would certainly have a centre-right majority, and this, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well and you confirmed it yesterday in a square near here in Montecitorio, where thousands of Italians shouted loudly: elections immediately. Mr Conte, this is a political moment when there is much cunning, when it floats, but politics must know how to choose and we have chosen sides; we have done so when we were born as a party and we have never denied our ideas. With the strength of our reason and coherence we are in the center-right and we are not interested in anything other than a national sovereign government and it is no coincidence that Giorgia Meloni was the only party leader to say from the first day of crisis that the highway was the return to the ballot box and this because sovereignty belongs to the Italian people. Mr Conte, you may also have the majority of this Parliament, you may also have the support of the President of the United States, but to govern seriously you need the legitimacy of popular consensus. I listened with interest to your last speech in this House on 20 August and I must say that it was imbued with an institutional sense. You had noted that a political force that supported you was no longer willing to do so and you rightly resigned, but at that point we would have expected you to step aside, because you who call yourself the lawyer of the Italian people are preventing that same people who want to defend themselves from democratically expressing their vote. If, therefore, you are a man of the institutions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are to escape this disaster, resign and defend the right to vote and the sovereignty of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u39	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to argue my vote of confidence in the nascent Government. It is a confidence that I have chosen to give taking into consideration two aspects, the first of which is of context and takes up what authoritative colleagues have already pointed out, namely the need for the country to be prevented from facing an electoral campaign with a difficult budgetary session on its doorstep. I have understood the risks and the possible consequences, so I believe it is my duty to contribute to avoiding the costs of such political and economic uncertainty for the citizens, by not opposing any government structure that had presented itself today for the first confidence. The second aspect is of merit and has to do with the literal meaning of the expression "give confidence." It concerns a commitment that I consider crucial to give a future of well-being and freedom to the country, i.e. investment in education, culture and research. With reference to the budget law for 2020, the first point of the government programme is the increase in resources for schools, universities and research. In words, therefore, policies on research and education take on a renewed centrality. On this basis, with my vote, I would like to contribute to a trusting relationship between Parliament and the Government, so that this commitment can actually be realized. On school dispersal, right to study, basic research, for example, you could start working immediately. The urgency, however, is not only in the resources: of equal importance are the rules for their distribution. Well, as long as there are ideas and research financed in Italy regardless of their value, with public money allocated by law and without competition, there will be a profound injustice, as well as a poor use of resources destined for research. Also from this, kind President, young people flee and others do not come from abroad, because they go or remain in countries where the evaluation of ideas is always comparative, scientific and on the merits. The rules and procedures to reverse this trend are internationally known and tested, but they must be in a crystal house, a research agency that acts after the political decision on the objectives to invest and that, through competitive calls and certain times, guarantees all ideas equal and transparent access to public resources to achieve those objectives, clearly preventing any confusion of roles, any contiguity, any ideal affiliation and any direct negotiation between politics and individual scholars or groups of scholars, cordates or institutions. Mr President, we are almost the only ones in Europe who do not have a research agency: Greece also set up it in 2016. It is therefore encouraging to note that the proposal of a research agency is present in the programme of this Government as it was in the previous one. One could begin by imagining it dedicated to certain specific areas. Resources, then, but above all rules. Finally, there is an urgency, the premise of all the others: it is a cultural urgency and it concerns the recognition that the institutions will be able to give to the knowledge, the importance of the study, the evidence established and ascertainable by scientific method, as well as the need to address important issues such as health, the environment, the climate and agriculture with seriousness, without relying on propaganda, advertising, ideological choices, reflecting carefully, therefore, on the real sustainability of what is financed in these sectors and in others with public resources. Respect for the evidence of science must apply in every field, because the method of science is not à la carte, otherwise derailments and misunderstandings, forerunners of misfortunes, will always be around the corner. Mr President, the condemnation that Italy has received from the European Commission for the wretched management of xylella in Puglia is only the last sad warning. I believe that there is a minimum field of evidence to which the Government is called: for example, abstaining from dismantling the precious legislation on vaccines, but also the necessary protection of the work and safety of our researchers. We ask scholars not to flee abroad, but then we put them to the test as regards, for example, their delicate ethical commitment to animal experimentation, hindering it and disowning its importance, while we benefit from every discovery obtained through it. The same minimum field of evidence also concerns the need not to endorse with public resources unscientific medical practices or agricultural practices based on esotericism or fairy tales, beautiful but impossible. It would be a desirable paradigm shift towards a new social pact built on evidence-based policies. I conclude by stressing that my vote of confidence today is neither unconditional nor organic to the majority: it will be linked from time to time to individual issues, to the credibility and scientific rigour that the Government will assume in carrying out its function. As in the past, I will continue to serve Parliament, the Government and the country to the best of my ability and knowledge, with the double role I am invested in, offering and discussing with all those who will be interested in the evidence and data that the method of science gives us, without giving anything to ideological visions of the world. That concludes, not before I wish you, Mr President, and your Government good work. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u41	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with this speech I would like to address some of the issues you have mentioned in the programme statements, which concern the Italian communities in the world. They are many young people who leave and have left Italy in the past to settle in a foreign country: I am one of them. Despite the difficulties of remoteness, this has not made us forget, indeed it has increased love for loved ones and for our native land; love that has contributed and continues to contribute to the development of Italy and silently and unconditionally continues to bind millions of Italians in the world to our country. The remittances of young migrants in the past, for example, provided Italy with valuable foreign currency when it needed it so much to finance economic development. Our fellow countrymen abroad have been the pioneers for the purchase of products made in Italy and have taught their new friends and neighbors the goodness and quality of Italian products. In other words, Mr President, they have promoted major market penetration campaigns, which would have cost Italian companies very much in their absence. And it is not over here, because the love and attachment of immigrants and Italians in the world with Italy were transmitted by yesterday's young people to children and grandchildren, who today are perfectly integrated in host societies and play important roles in all sectors of society in which they live, even in decision-making centres. In a nutshell, Mr President, the Italian communities around the world have been and continue to be a great resource for Italy. How can we use this resource? We need to start from a strong investment in the promotion of language and culture, to develop interest in our country, to promote opportunities for collaboration between schools, universities, professional bodies and civil society organisations, to strengthen and establish relationships based on mutual trust. They are all elements to increase trade relations, including the export of Made in Italy products, tourism flows and the launch of partnership projects to promote new production activities and explore new markets. In order to do this, however, we must change our attitude: we must abandon the concept of protection and tackle the issues that concern our communities, talking about rights of citizenship and enhancement. Among the citizenship rights, I am referring to consular services, pensions, health care in Italy for members of AIRE, the buy-back of citizenship for those who lost it before 1992, the new social security mechanisms for workers who move from one country to another. More attention is needed to the needs of the young people of yesterday, who are of old age today. With regard to the valorization, I think, as already said, of investments in language and culture, to establish relationships and relationships to promote the Italy system, I think of the great network of people of Italian origin in the world, who today play important roles in the decision-making centers of the countries in which they live, to promote economic exchanges, to identify new markets, to promote new activities and investments in Italy and abroad. From this point of view, we can also address the problem of representation (the elected abroad, the Comites, the CGIE). In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that the Government will make this important strategic investment choice on Italians in the world, a choice that cannot be left to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone, but must be extended to other ministries, including those of the cultural assets and activities of education, economic development and work. I therefore ask you, Mr President, and Mr Di Maio, Mr Franceschini, Mr Fioramonti, Mr Patuanelli, Mr Catalfo and the Government to invest all resources in the implementation of programmes and objectives linked to this strategy. I know that resources are difficult to recover; but, if we consider that it is an investment for Italy and not simply an expense, I think it will be possible to find them also - I suggest - involving the many companies that, thanks to the communities of Italians in the world, have achieved and continue to achieve significant profits. Believe me, Mr President, it will benefit not only the Italian communities in the world, but also and above all Italy and the future of our children. Congratulations on the new government. We've got some hard work ahead of us. We can change Italy. Good job! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Vecchis]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today allows me to speak to all of you, gathered for confidence in the implementation of a programme. The country urgently needs a good policy, which must enable fair and sustainable development. The development we have witnessed so far is energy-intensive and the energy we use is based on the use of non-renewable fossil sources. The use of fossil fuels is responsible for a number of global changes, of which rising temperatures and climate change are the most evident phenomena. It increases the frequency of extreme phenomena, as we have all been able to ascertain, even recently. Technology is making renewable energy available, which will cut down the use of fossil fuels and it is urgent that this path be implemented. But is energy spent for the good of all? Our development model provides for the production of useful primary goods and secondary and tertiary goods, whose need is not indispensable. With our development model one third of the food produced in the world is wasted, while some still starve. So the energy used to produce it is wasted. Advertising is busy instilling the desire to have in people and therefore there are people who are corrupted by the need to buy goods that are superfluous. I remember Beppe Grillo saying that the best watch is what you already have and that you don't need to buy another one. If you have clothes, even branded ones, it doesn't make sense that after a month you feel the need to buy another one. It is said that this process generates wealth and work, but if we look at how wealth is distributed, illustrious economists, including Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz, have shown that one percent of the planet's population holds 99 percent of the wealth. In practice it is produced to enrich an extremely small portion of the population. This model of development is destroying the planet in which we live and where our children will live, to enrich few people. We must give importance to being, which is made up of small things, a walk, an evening with friends and loved ones and, ultimately, leisure time. I hope that the polar star of the new Government is the happiness of all and happiness passes by a greater redistribution of wealth and a model of sustainable development. Technology will help us, but it is clear that automation will decrease the demand for work, which will be increasingly carried out by machines. The redistribution of wealth will have to make it possible to work less and to work all, a slogan that was once dear to the left. There are 5 million poor in our country. It is clear that this number must be drastically reduced, just as the number of people, especially young people, who emigrate to seek a properly paid job must be reduced. Italy is one of the most beautiful countries in the world, with an immense heritage of art and culture. We must move to preserve and further enhance this immense wealth. We must invest in infrastructure, but since the money we have is not infinite, we must always keep our priorities in mind. In a country with strong infrastructural backwardness, are we sure that we want to invest in works like the TAV, whose function of transport goods is largely guaranteed by the current line? Does it not seem more logical to invest in local public transport, which only in Piedmont would absorb the same investments as the TAV? I hope that the majority will drastically resize liberal policies, which are responsible for the enormous disparity in the distribution of wealth. The state has often forgotten its task and we have seen companies that have become richer without investing in technological adaptation, maintenance and safety. The collapse of the Morandi bridge was a warning, which was taken by the former Minister Toninelli, whom I thank publicly for the great work he has done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the past, liberalisation policies have been launched - and the Democratic Party has been in favour of them - which have concerned the common goods almost without control. The lack of adequate control favours the thirst for income, which is the greater the enterprise invests. Water management has been liberalised and, although a referendum had stated that management should be public, many companies still enjoy these privileges today. The public was unable to cope with the costs of adapting the water supply and therefore had to be allowed to intervene. After more than twenty years of liberalisation, the national water supply continues to be a cholabrode with losses of 30-40 per cent, without adequate intervention. Water is also sold to private individuals through concessions that often carry out deep captures by exploiting these resources for industrial purposes, as if the resource were inexhaustible and, above all, as if collecting water at one point had no impact on an extensive regional hydrogeological circuit. The rivers reach the sea with a polluting load. What was another common good - and therefore a resource - has been diminished and sometimes severely compromised. We're compromising air quality. We have forgotten that the air has no boundaries and, once emitted pollutants, these can make the tour of the Planet. The poor air quality is responsible for a series of diseases that are constantly increasing and, if we are to respect the sacredness of human life, we must intervene to ensure high standards. Action must be taken on a number of industrial plants constructed with standards that are inadequate to protect the environment and health. These facilities are often the tangible expression of a rule that needs to be changed as soon as possible, namely that the private sector earns and the public pays: in terms of industrial conversion, environmental adjustment and often pays in terms of human lives. I am beginning to conclude, as I have run out of time. We must learn to use the media to improve our consciences, certain that the improvement of our country and our system of life passes through conscious people. The 5 Star Movimento will be a loyal partner if the PD proves to have as its objective the protection of common goods and the valorization and respect of human life, work and the redistribution of wealth in a sustainable country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u45	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u46	Professor Count, well-recovered! In three minutes, representing Italians abroad, I don't have much chance of breaking through, so I just point out a concept: melius re perpensa. Already a month ago I pointed out that, unfortunately, the first Conte Government had identified itself as the one institutionally most hostile to Italians abroad for the abolition of the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad here at the Senate that we now strongly request; and by "noi" I mean of course all the majority that supports this Government, and in particular I address my colleagues in the PD with whom we have conducted this battle for years. Now the chatter is at zero: we want the Committee for Italian Affairs to be reconstituted abroad here in the Senate that exists from four legislatures and whose activities have been interrupted only on the occasion of the first Count Government. Therefore, melius re perpensa, professor: we want respect for the Italian institutions abroad also with regard to parliamentary representation. I have already mentioned the profiles of manifest non-constitutionality of the reduction in the number of MPs in the foreign constituency, because the forecast of four senators representing 6 million members of the AIRE (Anagraph of Italians residing abroad) clearly violates the principle of democratic representation. I imagine therefore that in the revision of the electoral law and in the intervention of constitutional rank that your Government has mentioned to have in mind you include the specific protection of this minority, if we want to speak of minority being, precisely, 6 million members of the AIRE, that is, more than 10% of the Italian population. Then I also expect the promotion of our interests, not in a way that is too general, as has been mentioned, but specifically. For example, I expect the adoption of the draft law I have presented on the protection and promotion of Italian catering in the world, which has been greatly appreciated by the previous Government, which approved an agenda on this subject: I am referring to the catering exercises of Italians abroad, i.e. pizzerias, ice cream shops and restaurants. It is a network of 60,000 public establishments that truly defend Made in Italy, defend it abroad where it must be defended, fight the practice of Italian sounding and give work to many people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] With this we could also promote the entire network of Italian products that are not present in the large organized distribution and that would avail themselves of this network that only we have. President Conte, when you go to Europe, remember that we are the only country with more than 4 million residents on the territory of the European Union: in this we are champions of the world. Defend this primacy by promoting and perorating the interests of Italians abroad. In this respect, we will certainly have respect for your work and encourage you to move forward. Good job. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u48	Mr President, we have little time to look into some of your government's considerations. I will confine myself to a few reflections on the parties that support its majority: 5 Stars and PD. Those of the Movimento 5 Stars wanted to open Parliament as if it were a tuna box: that's what they were telling us. As our leader, Giorgia Meloni, says, in the end it turned out that the tuna was them with the whole box around. They wanted to make incendiaries and firemen came out; they wanted to fight the system and became the fifth column of it. What about the phrases that we see on social media today and flood the Net? Phrases of the leaders of the 5 Stars, of those who said "never with the PD," "never with the Party of Bibbiano," "never with those who do not have relations with the Mafia, but they are the Mafia": this is what the phenomena of the Movimento 5 Stars said, those like Di Battista or Di Maio. Really it is time to let down a pitiful veil compared to this incredible hypocrisy. They were somewhat exaggerated probably with the phrase borrowed from great philosophers, for whom politics had to be the art of possible. I think she's really overreacted. What about PD? The PD is well known, we who come from afar, from a right that has made so many sacrifices. We are well aware of the school of those who want us to learn about democracy and constitutionality. I am the party of the caste, of the establishment, the party of the strong powers, of a heavy judiciary, of those of the news and of the newspapers who claim to give us votes daily. Even today they wanted to represent that wonderful manifestation of people as a bunch of fascists and skinheads. I would like to say, if you allow me to finish, to the Senators of the PD: don't feel a bit embarrassed about sitting in the benches of those who gave their lives, or said to give their lives to fight against the capital and today turns in the grave seeing you as the servants of the capital? You are the party that defends the interests of speculative finance, you are the party of the spread, the party that comforts the markets, the party of the establishment. Congratulations very much. [[Laughter from the PD Group]] And I want to tell the left voters, if the left still exists in Italy, to vote for the right, which is, in the Brothers of Italy, the last bastion of our nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u49	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u50	Mr President, I listened very carefully to the previous senator. In fact, yesterday there was not exactly a shower of greetings from the Roman comrades, but in the shadow of some fascist greeting there was a rally that no one remembered had fallen exactly, after a few weeks (I think three), on the anniversary - ran a hundred years - of the first episode, in 1919, of attack on the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then it was much more serious, there is no doubt, but an anti-parliamentary mobilization like that of a hundred years ago was re-edited - I have to be honest, definitely with less emotional impact and not only - yesterday. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think that the government that is about to come to life is, as you said, a turning government; but in order to be a turning government, as was the very first central-left government, at the beginning of the 1960s, which cut an era compared to the past, at least three factors must converge. The first factor concerns the Movimento 5 Stars, which is the majority in this and in the other Hall, in the House, in Montecitorio. In order for the Government of the turning to take shape it is necessary that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars are in a position to cross the ford from anti-system party to party that assumes permanently a responsibility of government. This seems to me to be one of the most important conditions, perhaps the first. There will immediately be a test case linked to the cut-off of parliamentarians: in fact, if the cut-off of parliamentarians were to remain exclusively, without any other side-by-side measures, it would be - I have already said this in this House and I repeat this - a populist measure and that is enough; if the set were to be, in due time, on the one hand, a constitutional bill re-reading the functions of the two Chambers and, on the other hand, a new electoral law, then there is no doubt that this story could open up what you have defined as a new constituent season. The other condition is a challenge that involves doubly the left that sits here and that is out of here. I guess you shouldn't be content with putting the radical right in the corner. The belly of resentment and anger, which is still strong among Italians, will deflate only when we take strong measures of social justice and will be drawn a framework, where, for the next few years, Italy will be placed. Some of the good measures taken by the governments of the past legislature must be implemented and increased. It does not seem to me that there is a need for new measures of a liberal nature in this Italy; perhaps, instead, there would be a need for more State and a much stronger humanitarian socialism. It is also necessary for the left to come back to discuss not nationalism, but national consciousness, linking the two terms, national consciousness, with a word that is little used but that is necessary to render spirit and strength to the Italian community, which is patriotism. I would like to stress four aspects, which I find to be the four main avenues for the programme that you presented to the House yesterday and which you gave us: school, the fight against poverty, the environment and Europe. It depends on who speaks to you, Mr President, on the agenda of the first hundred days, among the 27 items written in the programme, I would begin to work on those that have been highlighted from various parts of the Senate, such as cutting taxes on work or making multinationals pay taxes where they operate. Ten large multinationals, which are the world's top ten big companies, are in exactly this condition: taxes do not pay them, not only in the country where they work, but they risk not paying them anywhere in the world. To reward worthy students but in need; to invest in knowledge and training; to reopen construction sites in order to secure Italy. I happily greet the appointment of Paolo Gentiloni Silveri in an important box that will be occupied in the Commission, because repositioning Italy within the European dynamics is one of those conditions. I would add that the other challenge for the left will be linked to the term security. The ferocity and illiberal norms of the Salvini decrees must be banned, but the terms freedom and security must be brought back into their home, which is also this. To do that, you don't have to use pity. Mercy is an individual feeling. To do this, the laws must be inspired by the founding values that have been enshrined in the Constitution, which are three: cooperation, solidarity and the defence of national interests. And there is no doubt that the migrant node is the first to arrive on the government table. Mr President, rather than expressing bilateral agreements in the election campaign, it is necessary for the Government to make them and above all, it is necessary to establish the criterion that those who live in Italy live according to Italian rules and laws and enjoy the rights, but also the responsibilities, of those who live in this country. The last point, the third, and I have concluded, Mr President, concerns the role of the President-in-Office of the Council, yours, Mr Conte. This role cannot be that of a year ago, because there is no longer a need for a lawyer of the people and a referee. It was necessary in front of a contract, while today a political government is born. And in the face of a political government, there is a need for political leadership. She is in a position to exercise it, for her excellent relations with European leaders and for her experience. These are the conditions under which the Mixed-PSI Group will vote for the government that you chaired. [[Applause from the Mixed IPS and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u51	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u52	Mr President, a long speech by the Premier yesterday in the House, with a chapter articulation where everything seems to have been addressed, clarified and translated into concrete commitments for the Giallorossi Government. I do not know how much will be done, but the Premier clearly has certain commitments and deadlines. Our opposition will be on the measures and not obstructionistic. It is precisely, however, in this effort made by the President in his attempt to be exhaustive that a large black hole stands out concerning the decisions that the Constitutional Court will take over two weeks in the matter of euthanasia. The story is known to all. The Milan Court of Appeal, which should have judged Marco Cappato, who had denounced himself for violating Article 580 of the Criminal Code on Assisted Suicide, referred the matter back to the Constitutional Court, as it did not consider that the recently adopted law on DAT was sufficiently clear in addressing this point. As the Premier knows, the previous government, in the first part of this legislature, was unable to address this issue in the House. My first question to the Premier, and therefore the subsequent request, goes in this direction. He does not consider it unfair, even contrary to the system of perfect bicameralism in force today, that such a decision is made by leaving the Senate totally out and, indeed, making it unintentionally complicit in a rule that can soon degenerate. This is what is happening in the Netherlands, where we tend to eliminate depressed people, increasingly fragile people: not only terminally ill, but also elderly people with various forms of dementia and Alzheimer's and, therefore, not able to guarantee full awareness of the decisions they are making. To postpone this deadline for the new Government could be a concrete way to accept at least the request for further reflection, as more than fifty associations, mainly from the Catholic world, have recently done, which will meet tomorrow in the Italian Episcopal Conference with the president, Cardinal Bassetti, also gathering a recent appeal of the Holy Father. Can the new Government totally evade a request that comes from such a large part of the Catholic world? Can this Government afford the luxury of being remembered as the Government that introduced euthanasia in Italy? Second reflection. In his speech, the President explicitly said that the delegations on disability will be directly at the head of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and that there will be a Deputy Undersecretary for Disability. In this way the President showed that he had accepted the request that FISH and FAND had made to him in this regard last week. Does the President know that DJ Fabo was a seriously disabled person, a disabled person who asked to live, who also went to India looking for stem cell therapies, who did everything and eventually gave up also to inefficiency, indifference, the inability to respond precisely to his needs? These are my two questions to the President and frankly, taking into account the very short deadline, that of tomorrow to bring a message to Catholic associations, including Cardinal Bassetti, and that of the Constitutional Court in two weeks' time, we would like to have a few words of clarity about the government's position on euthanasia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Conte, fourteen months ago, came to the Senate to ask for confidence in his Government, in the name of an objective: discontinuity and change from the previous Government, that is, the PD and the unfortunate season of Renzi and Italy's submission to the interests of France and Germany. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today, President Count, you come here to the Senate to ask your second government for confidence, in the name of an objective: discontinuity and change from the previous League Government and 5 Stars [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , that is, with respect to a political action that the League has led and that has allowed Italy to raise its head to break the Franco-German hegemony over Europe. This is a masterpiece of transformation, of revival; it is called restoration, Mr President, it is called submission. It is the humiliation of Italy, the one that you are taking to the Senate today with this Government. We had a political objective: to restore strength and dignity to this country. It worked well for many months; we worked well. The League has begun to gain consensus, because Matteo Salvini has shown the Italians that the League keeps its commitments and remains consistent with its voters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But at each electoral round the 5 Stars began to lose consensus: in the regional elections in Abruzzo, Sardinia, Basilicata; then in the municipal elections and European elections. And everything's stuck. This is the path that led to the crisis: that of a 5 Star Movement which, unable to understand the errors of its government action, jammed the mechanism to prevent the League from carrying out its government action [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which had the consent of the citizens in the country. You have blocked the autonomy, security, flat tax, infrastructure, up to the pantomime of the TAV here in the Senate House, with its party, the Movimento 5 Stars - I do not know if it is its party, because there is also debate on this - which comes out of this House in contradiction with what you have said about the TAV. This is what you've prepared for the reel. And you created the conditions to break that government agreement that we had made a few months earlier, ready for the uproar, for this shameful mischief. Minister Thirty, candidly in recent days, has come out expecting her to reconfirm as Minister because she had worked hard against Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is his nightmare: the League and Salvini. What nightmare, President Conte? Two things have been seen by the Italians these days: the bruised face of Minister Di Maio and the sluttyness and overflow that you showed yesterday in the Chamber. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am sorry for the absence of Minister Di Maio, who is obviously moving from one Ministry to another and must perhaps also look for some vocabulary. This is the funeral of one's politics is worth one. I really regret it, because the Movimento 5 Stars could be a serious novelty and we wanted to govern together with a novelty, because we are new. [[Comments from the PD Group]] But you did the funeral of the politics of one is worth one, of the same identity as the Movimento 5 Stars. This is a demonstration of superlative incoherence and transformation because today you are in the government with Renzi, the Renzi who had to withdraw from politics, but who is still here. And all the vagaries at PD these months where did they go? Did they evaporate immediately? Today has revealed the great bluff of the Movimento 5 Stars. Today you are system: you are the guarantor of the system and establishment. Fourteen months ago, it took weeks to agree on the government contract. It took you ten days to get along with that stuff. I repeat, ten days. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Grimani]] And it always remains that of Bibbiano, Banca Etruria, Lotti, Renzi and Boschi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In ten days, you've agreed. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] With this stubble you mixed up with that stuff there, the one up there and yelling. To him! [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] I feel repugnant thinking about the work done in Parliament, here, in the 17th legislature with colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars against that stuff, which today has manifested itself in all its capacity to be octopus. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I want to see how he's gonna go to Baptist's Square and talk about the PD octopus. I want to see how he's gonna say it! [[Live applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group whose members stand up]] In recent days Minister Di Maio has had to argue that the Movimento 5 Stars will always be the needle of the balance in the upcoming legislatures for the upcoming governments. Minister Di Maio, you did not say anything new: Craxi said so 30 years ago. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You are the restoration of the first Republic. You have done this: you are reincarnating the worst vices, habits and transformations of the first Republic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] President Conte, you have become the prince of the transformists, with a capacity to turn gabbana which has no equal in republican history. With these words I quote De Benedetti, who said so last night on LA7. By the way, I think you're also voting for PD. Does it bother you to talk about mischief, President Conte? You'll have to get used to it, because that word will fit into your resume. This word really gets into her resume and doesn't get off her. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Does it bother you to hear that you want to be bolted to the chairs? That's what you did, President Conte. You wanted to stay here and you did it with your worst opponent in the 17th legislature, the one you insulted until the day before yesterday, the Democratic Party. You said yesterday: you of the League wanted to go to the elections to have more seats. No, President Conte, we wanted and want the first and last word on how and who must govern Italy to always be of the Italian people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You are afraid to confront the people and the voters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Because this is a government that is born outside Italy, wanted and supported by Berlin and Paris, applauded by Brussels and the representatives of that Europe that sent us into recession, by that power that, through the European Union, made the Italians pay, with billions of euros, the debts of the French and German banks, complacent the Democratic Party that was to the Government and with which you have mixed up today and become one thing: the thing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We wanted to give Italy back to the sovereign people, you gave it back to Renzi and this responsibility will weigh you down. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Yesterday in the House, President Conte said, again, how the national interest is defended: to pursue the objectives that are dear to the Italians and return useful for the good of the country. God whom I rebuke to think that these are the words that come out of the mouth of those who met Chancellor Merkel to plot against the League of Matthew Salvini! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is betrayal of democracy and its people! This was the people's attorney, the one who sold himself for it, at least, is the attorney of himself at most. He knows how to propose well, but he does not realize that if they first denigrate him for the curriculum and today consider him a statesman obviously some reflection must be done. Do it, colleagues 5 Stars, ask yourself why today this has become a statesman, when yesterday he was denigrated for a resume. Because he bent in Frankfurt, because he bent in Brussels, because he bent in Paris. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Did you ask yourself that question? You have taken the worst vices of the first Republic and are replicating them, until you invent in ten days a program that even provides for the modification of the Constitution, that Constitution that you have tried to modify as Democratic Party in the XVII legislature and that the Italian people have prevented you from modifying. You of the Movimento 5 Stars today are proposing it to him and you do it to keep yourself. This is transformation, remake what Renzi did, shame! From the Democratic Party this was to be expected, because it was born to manage power, but not from the 5 Stars: you had to open Parliament like a tuna box and today you are the canned tuna. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You can keep running, but you won't run forever and when your time comes the people won't give you discounts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, whose members stand up. Many congratulations]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Dignity! Dignity! Dignity! Dignity! Dignity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please sit down and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u55	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u56	President Conte, I have read your report, there would be a lot to say, but unfortunately time does not allow me. We have thus reached the culmination of a parliamentary and political crisis that has seen the most unthinkable turns of those who until yesterday said everything and the opposite of everything compared to its new allies. We saw exponents of the Movimento 5 Stars swearing and swearing never to be with the PD, with Renzi, with the Bibbiano party, with the banking party. We also saw, no more than a few weeks ago, the Senators of the PD occupy the benches of the Government and, with the Constitution in hand, shout "Honestness! Honesty!It is against their companions today. Yesterday in the square, the square called by Giorgia Meloni, the square of Fratelli d'Italia, the Italian people, the people of artisans, workers, professionals, pensioners, young people, mothers and fathers shouted "Vote now!." Yes, because what is now your majority, President Conte, your government and the way in which you are constituted represent a real trap of sovereignty, that sovereignty that belongs to the people and only to the people. Colleagues of the 5 Stars, you want to teach us what democracy is and then you prefer to wait for the judgment of a few thousand of your voters through a platform of which we do not even know how it is controlled and managed, instead of confronting you with the judgment of the Italian people. On the other hand, you want to give us lessons of democracy you who have started from "one is worth one" and you have arrived at "an armchair for one does not hurt anyone." [[Applause from the FdI Group]] President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your personal work: you have managed to agree with all those whose interests do not coincide with the interests of the Italians: you have had the appreciation of the financial lobby, of the business banks, of the European and Italian bureaucrats and, above all, of those to whom the vote was frightened, of those parties already defeated in all the electoral rounds of the last two years. Many say that your government will be running out of time, but unfortunately I do not think that will be the case. This is a government based on the maintenance of power and not on the sharing of a project for the future of the Italians, a government born with the blessing of Berlin, Paris and Brussels, and for this reason I have the reasonable doubt that it will last, not even to allow to elect a President of the Republic with a sovereign parliament. But I hope, for the good of the Italians, for our businesses, for our families, for our young people and for our nation, that this government of yours will end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u57	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u58	Mr President, after listening to the long reformist report, I must say that in theory every single point of your new programme could be more than acceptable. However, in fact I regret to see that reality is diametrically opposed, mainly because there is no indication of the financial coverage of the ambitious measures listed. For example, how can we avoid the automatic increase in VAT and achieve the simultaneous reduction of the tax wedge by calling for effective control of the spending review? Are we going to ask for help from Europe on the deficit or are we going to have to further reduce resources for the increasingly difficult local authorities? My hope is that as much as possible cuts in service expenditure will be avoided. Our hospitals continue to close; the connections between the main cities in the Mezzogiorno are inadequate. These days I have been to Sicily and I assure you that reaching the center of Sicily is really a difficult task. Schools fall apart, the streets are ravaged, young people run away from our regions. In this perspective how can we implement a new humanism? Certainly it cannot be done proposing the theme of the cuts to the kindergartens nest as the first point of the program of Government, while recognizing the importance or protecting the health allowing the entry of ships that are charged of known contaminants. I am referring to the famous loads of durum wheat at the cassock. The same is true of differentiated self-governments, which will make the regions richer and poorer and richer. Do not report that fairness will be ensured through the recognition of the essential levels of performance. I recall, in fact, that the Constitutional Charter had since 2001 to provide for the realization of these benefits, while today we want to trade these benefits in a do ut des. I have read some statements from the Minister of Health that this should be the Government of the fight against inequalities, starting with the possibility for everyone to have access to quality care. The fight against inequality, however, is done in particular by respecting the rules and the precautionary principle protected by Community legislation. The President spoke of the protection of the common good, but with the previous Government we started a process of privatization of public water, as well as authorising the spreading of sludge in agriculture with the decree Genoa. I did not see any concrete commitments in the climate, energy programme and also on the conversion of the automotive sector to electricity. Our country needs a program that starts from the primary sector, the agricultural sector, the only economic sector in continuous growth. Agriculture is undervalued by all governments. I hope that the new Minister will give impetus to the prohibition of under-cost sales, as Catania had done many years ago, to guarantee that minimum wage even in agriculture that could finally eradicate the phenomenon of the caporalate, as well as the depopulation of entire rural countries. I would like the government's action to focus mainly on respecting the precautionary principle that previously dominated the work of the Commission. I am referring both to the matter of sludge, but above all to wheat and 5G technology, which will force people to live perennially in a microwave oven. According to the medical association, the Italian Government should have asked for a health opinion on the safety of electromagnetic fields, but this did not happen. I believe that in our region, if we want to prevent the unconditional exploitation of oil wells, the government should take a line with regard to oil policies, because our deposits could be a solution for the reduction of public debt avoiding new extractions. Above all, we must create a serious programme of environmental reclamations of polluted sites, including those in the city of Taranto, where it has been planned to introduce rules that make the polluters immune from responsibility. On the other hand, I believe that those who pollute must be prosecuted under the law, as well as having to pay. We need a concerted forestry policy with the regions to combat this phenomenon. [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u59	Senator, you've already exceeded your time. If you wish, you can deliver the text of your speech, because we have already added more time. I would therefore urge you to conclude the text quickly, and then, if you wish, deliver it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u60	De Bonis (Misto). Starting with the conclusion, I am convinced that Italy today needs more than ever some firm points, such as the revival of the agricultural sector and a policy of absolute transparency on toxic waste, in order to guarantee public health and reduce health expenditure by this way; a moratorium on 5G technology, in compliance with the precautionary principle; the public management of water and public goods and a real implementation of our Constitution that guarantees the essential levels of performance and equity for the Mezzogiorno, also in order to reduce the gap between North and South, in order to stop the escape of young Italians. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u61	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u62	Mr President, today we are launching a government season that sees a new coexistence, that of Movimento 5 Stars, Democratic Party and Free and Equal; a season that we hope will last and that this can be with certain premises, if you, President of the Count Council, succeed in the difficult task of maintaining in balance different political forces, remaining the lawyer of the people who had announced itself at the beginning of the previous experience of Government. This task, even more than before, requires foresight and prudence, because the majority has changed and the numbers have narrowed, but the citizens who voted on March 4, 2018 have the same expectations and it is always to them that this new Government also has to look. The citizens voted for change, we must not forget that. We ourselves are candidates with the precise commitment to give a turning point to the country; a turning point in the direction of the protection of the weak, the disabled and the last, of the collective interests compared to those of the few. We therefore have confidence in your work, Mr President-in-Office of the Count Council, and we ask you to ensure that the political season that we are inaugurating today maintains that same connotation of discontinuity with respect to the other legislature that characterized the Government that we have left behind, hopefully with some additional prerequisite for sharing. In the name of the discontinuity that alone can unite two paths that have often been opposed in the past and to make the Government that is about to be born lasting, we ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to restore centrality to Parliament and to ensure full cooperation and sharing between the Chambers and the Executive. This is the only recipe that, in my opinion, will guarantee compactness and durability to this new majority. Discontinuity also means saying enough to the decree of urgency, which gives priority to some issues over others and, occupying every institutional space, does not allow the Commissions to deepen and develop effective and shared regulatory measures with citizens according to specific sectoral priorities. All themes have the same dignity and relevance for the healthy development of a country like Italy and must be treated with the same regard and attention through effective synergy between Government and competent Commissions. I say this because in previous experience some subjects, including education and cultural heritage, have been touched only marginally by the synergistic action of Government and Commissions, yet in these we find the natural strategic assets for the optimal and sustainable development of our country. Let's start with our cultural heritage, which is the beating heart of the millennial Western civilization. In Italy there is the highest concentration in the world of cultural heritage, yet today this strategic sector is suffering for policies that have opened up to privatization, to cuts and speculations that undermine the preservation of our heritage. Even today we are destined to this fundamental sector less than 1% of GDP; many cultural operators and many intellectuals ask us to remedy all this, so we must do so by first replacing all the staff who have gone into quiescence even with a 100 quota, indispensable to oversee and valorize all our heritage and to hand it over to future generations as we have received it. We must not forget that it is for all our cultural heritage that we are appreciated all over the world and that around this heritage the circuit of tourism and scientific research can develop, with an international attraction that fills, if not all, a considerable part of our employment deficit. Our cultural heritage is the main and identity natural vocation of our territory: we still do not understand why or in the interest of those who always look beyond, Forget it. Perhaps because cultural heritage is the inviolable heritage of free citizens, as well as a dangerous competitor for the sharing of the pie of the state budget compared to more and more greedy privates and less prone to solidarity? Perhaps because a proper and democratic use of all the resources of our country can give a free future to our young people, keeping them away from the forms of exploitation that today stifle their every perspective? What about education, which is the essential prerequisite for this circular economy of culture? We need to step back from the policies of the last twenty years, when some self-progressive decided that the school could be run more efficiently as a company, a bit like health care and we saw how it ended. From that moment on, our students' learning levels began a steady descent that soon became vertical collapse. The Berlusconi government has taken as many as eight billion euros from the public school, never put back in the budget expenditure chapter. Corporateization has meant changing the priorities of schools, so now to the needs of didactics they have superimposed those of the extracurricular activities around which they rotate economic interests that in fact hinder the consolidation of fundamental learnings and deny the possibility of acquiring knowledge and skills to students who have different learning times. We have basically returned to school for the few who have the ability to learn even in time cuttings, while increasing the number of students who acquire qualifications without the corresponding cultural requirements. You, Mr President, will certainly have seen this in your experience as a university teacher. The companyization of the school, which has progressively reduced its quality, has in fact favored the market of private training, which fattens out of all quality control, from kindergartens, in which the staff is paid even 50 cents per hour, to the universities. The creeping idea underlying this project to arrive at an integrated system also for education, as for health, must be avoided at any cost, if one looks at the inequalities that the latter has generated in the various territories literally splitting Italy in two. The school can be saved with interventions of common sense, with a selective and transparent recruitment of staff, guaranteeing continuity of teaching also and above all to the disabled, assigning to the roles all the vacant and available chairs also of support, managing in a sustainable way the mobility of the staff, restoring centrality to the didactics and the governance of the schools to the collegial bodies, restoring the priorities consistent with the objectives of the schools, paying adequately all the school staff. For the university, research and AFAM, too, we must have the courage to change, starting with transparent and meritorious recruitment, through the extension of the right of access to scheduled number universities, ensuring fairer taxation, greater inclusion for children with disabilities and specific learning disabilities, public investment in research and the staff working there. I have briefly listed the priorities of key areas for the lives of citizens, which form the basis of the circular economy of culture, a sustainable economy that does not include exploitation and social hardship, which is the bearer of well-being, progress, civilization and democracy. A recipe within the reach of our beautiful country that requires courage and determination to change with respect to the policies of the last twenty years, qualities that have distinguished it, President Conte, in the experience of government that we have left behind. Congratulations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u63	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u64	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we listened to and appreciated yesterday's speech in the House, which we found for a long time to be acceptable. This obviously cannot allow us to cancel the last fourteen months, as if they had not existed and our strong opposition had not existed. The differences - many - with the Movimento 5 Stars remain. Then why are we here? We are here because we think that the good of the country comes before the interest of partisan; we are here because we think that we should try to find a synthesis between different ideas. We don't want contracts where everyone puts a separate piece; we want a shared program, not a contract. And we thank you for the effort that has been made to achieve this objective, you, Mr President, the leaders of our parties and the leaders of the groups. We do not abdicate our ideas, but we give you the confidence that this country needs a democratic majority to try to solve concrete problems. We will be loyal and we ask for loyalty to you and your government partners. No one, President Morra, must redeem himself; together we can make progress, if we all have the humility to listen to ourselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What we have seen in recent months by my colleague Senator Salvini is something indecent. But today I do not want to attack Senator Salvini; it seems to me to shoot on the Red Cross, so many and so are the mistakes he has made (and I believe that this is why he already struggles to sleep at night). They have taught me that the strong are attacked and that they are not angry with the weak and those who are in difficulty. At the moment, Mr Salvini is clearly in difficulty: it was enough to look at his face in this House this morning throughout the course of the debate. So I just advise you, Senator Salvini, to study how institutions work. Perhaps you can find out that crises are faced in Parliament, that there are no full powers for anyone and that, if the times and ways are wrong, politics fails. We hope you will recover and give you our solidarity; it will take time, but you will see that it will pass. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, unfortunately, in this short time I have no way of talking about content as I would like, but I would ask you to deal with the real emergency of the country, which is not immigration, but it is work. We will be at your side to identify the best answers for our young people, for the precarious, for the unemployed. We must also be close to the last ones (this is the last call I want to make) with policies for social and health, so that there really is equality of rights and full accessibility in life. Let us not forget the past, but today we trust the future, because we think it is more useful to dwell not on where we come from, but on where we want to go. On this, where we want to go lies the measure of our alliance and on this we will confront ourselves with loyalty. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u66	Mr President, Government and fellow senators, I have repeatedly spoken in this House, this year and a half of the legislature, to highlight all the political turns of the 5 Star Movement in this short term of the legislature. But I would have been surprised to see today, in the middle of summer, that a real U-turn has been implemented by a political force, which has no precedent in the history of this Parliament; a political force that has turned its head on the other side and that today, in a few days, composes and forms a government completely opposed to the previous one. President Conte, I listened to your speech yesterday and I also read a few traces of it. I would like to highlight one or two points here, because I do not have the time, otherwise I would quote all 26 points in your programme, to inform you of the difficulties and differences that exist between the two political forces that are composing the new Government, especially on one topic in particular: the protection of the environment and biodiversity. It is these hours the national polemic, and not only regional, between the neominister of agricultural policies and the Movimento 5 Stars on the issue of xylella in Puglia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There are two diametrically opposed visions within your Government, which see the Movimento 5 Stars claiming that xylella is a hoax invented by available scientists. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, you are as Apulian as I am, and so we have this subject and this issue at heart today: explain to this House and explain to the citizens of Apulia how this problem will be solved, because Apulia is on its knees and Italy's GDP is on its knees for agriculture and xylella. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] President Conte, you also said that this new government will be sensitive to the promotion of pluralism in information. Just a few weeks ago the Movimento 5 Stars celebrated in the squares for the cutting of support for publishing and I remember the livor he had towards journalists. It is therefore another contradiction and, as I said, I could draw out another 26. Those mentioned are just a few points that highlight the contradiction, then everything is legitimate. It is absolutely legitimate in this House today that this majority should be formed, but it is made up of the algebraic sum of two parties that have been defeated by the elections on 4 March and that have nothing in common. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Rather, from the experience of this crisis of government there is a lesson that all of us could draw from, that is, the necessity that today there is in the country of a serious reform of the form of government in the presidential sense. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is the voters who can and must choose their President before the elections, vote for him and, if so, take away their trust. Instead, today we have a strong party in the government, which speaks in words of direct democracy and then, when it is called to the ballot box, as we have asked to do, instead escapes from direct democracy, because the only direct democracy that exists in this country is the vote and the support of the voters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, we are different, because we prefer to practice the coherence of ideas and fidelity to a few strong and clear values, so we will be opposed, in order to build a serious and substantial alternative to this Government. We aim to give political stability to the country, the only stability that interests us: the stability of the armchairs at all costs we leave it to you, we do not belong to us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this speech to wish Paolo Gentiloni Silveri good work, who has become European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD]] : a prestigious assignment for our country, also due to the authority that President Gentiloni Silveri has been able to conquer in Europe. I want to focus on one particular aspect of our debate: not on the programmatic content of the new government, but on its constitutional legitimacy, absolute, unequivocal and insuperable. Sovereignty thieves. Thieves of democracy: like a broken record, this is the slogan abused by those who have not yet understood the rules of parliamentary democracy, because this we are, a parliamentary democracy. The House and the Senate, as directly elected by the electoral corps, constitute the most immediately expressive constitutional organs of popular sovereignty and from this characteristic derives a position of particular prominence in the constitutional organization of the State. The idea that the vote and popular consent towards a leader, especially if arbitrarily self-defined, are the only source of exclusive and comprehensive legitimacy of the power of government is not only wrong but is itself in serious contradiction to our Constitution and involves an unacceptable twist of constitutional principles and values. Constitutional limitations and constraints, separation of powers, balancing and counterweights and even more legal controls are perceived as illegitimate, the result of judicial plots ordained in the shadows and in any case of anti-democratic initiatives. It is this basic conception of democracy as omnipotence of the majority and its leader, as an expression of the popular will, that today, with the birth of the second Conte Government, is defeated. This government is born to restore the basic foundations of our constitutional democracy. The elections are held at the constitutional deadline or in advance only when the President of the Republic has established that there is a broad agreement and the absence of an alternative majority, but never can there be dissolution and early elections in execution of beach blackmail, with the claim, moreover, to invoke full powers. This government, therefore, is not born against anyone; it is not a theft of democracy, but it is born to confirm the vitality, the strength, the ineluctability of our Constitution. That is the deep and convinced sense of my vote in favour of President Conte's new government. And not to be less than Senator Bagnai: live the Constitution, live Parliament! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u69	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my brief speech by recalling a very important value: loyalty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Loyalty indicates a component of the human character for which a person chooses to obey particular ideals of correctness and sincerity even in difficult or inconvenient situations, keeping the word given and behaving accordingly, such as, for example, when signing a contract and having the seriousness to respect it. We must not demand loyalty from others, because true loyalty cannot be imposed: true loyalty can only be conquered. It is clear that with the League we have not succeeded, so to speak. I would also like to emphasise another concept, that of conflict of loyalty. Let's think about when, for example, stupidly we ask a child if he loves his dad or mom more: this psychologically causes a sense of indecision, anxiety and stalemate. It causes suffering in that child. I turn to us: we called ourselves warriors; we are warriors 5 Stars. The political system has asked us precisely this question, in a very subtle way, to put us in difficulties, to try to destroy us from within. We have suffered, and so much, this is true; we have reasoned so much. Then, proudly - and we are the only ones - we asked our members to decide. They certainly haven't decided whether we care more about the League or the Democratic Party (the answer would be obvious). The members of the Movement have chosen whether to continue to achieve positive results for the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what they chose. I want to claim it: the Movement to the Government has achieved to date excellent results for Italian citizens: from the income of citizenship to 100, to the decree of dignity, to the provision of corrupt sweeps, to name a few. Here we are, dragged - at least as far as I'm concerned - from the memory of when Don Milani said that having clean hands and keeping them in your pocket serves little. We, who are elected spokesmen of the 5 Star Movement, are fulfilling the will of the majority of members and we are voting favorably, for the second time in our young history, a trust in a government that sees us sided with an old political force: it was the League months ago, it is the PD today. Colleagues, activists, sympathizers, citizens, I would like to quote Brecht: "Now is not the right time to win, but to fight the defeats" and I would say the defeat of loyalty, which I have just recalled. So many events and so many questions precede us. On March 4, 2018, the Movement heavily detached any political party to the elections, but, beware, it received "only" 32% of the electoral consensus, which once again addressed - for 68 percent - the usual political parties. The short story behind us - who has followed our fate knows it - has always put us in front of a crossroads: on the one hand, the temptation to alienate oneself from the world of the old and political march; on the other, the need not to escape from the needs, to take a position, to try with reality, with its harshness and with its contradictions. After five years of opposition, our Movement has chosen the second, and has done so before, declaring it in every corner of Italy in the electoral campaign [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : Without an autonomous majority we will put our issues on the table and ask who is there. Say it and say it again. Not only that, it did something more than the Movement: it did not let itself be overwhelmed by depression, nor by the desertion of some citizens who threw away the helmet on the street, but it has made it a stimulus to a constantly self-critical question, aimed at improving our action and aimed at getting as much as possible for our population. Attention: all this happened on a battlefield wisely arranged by all parties that was the electoral law, an enemy battlefield. So there must not be, colleagues, beautiful phases, bad, exciting or depressing phases, but only stages with different tasks. Therefore, let each one affix his own weapons, intellectual and material, because there is so much work to do, and let us always remember that honesty is the best policy, as far as we are concerned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are ready to pick up where, because of someone, our government action had stopped and we will do it giving the best as always. We will do so with all our energy, because we have a duty to give life to the demands of the citizens. I shall conclude, Mr President, but let me, again to recall the loyalty I highlighted at the beginning, thank my fellow Members of the League with whom we have worked with without a shadow of doubt with seriousness and self-denial. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] My personal respect, in some cases also resulted in a beautiful personal friendship, will continue to prevail in my behavior. I hope that this will also be the case with my colleagues in the present majority, with whom - it is pointless to deny it - we have been fighting for years verbally. Today our Movement, as fifteen months ago, put the important themes of our country at the centre, but this time, unlike a year ago, the Democratic Party said yes: well. Let's start together with the best intentions and always remember to be loyal to each other. Without loyalty not only there is no friendship (and friendship between us is the last of the problems of Italians), but personal interests prevail and you can not get results for Italians. The Movement resumes its journey with passion and seriousness and I hope to all of us to succeed. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Government, when Professor Giuseppe Conte first appeared in this House, the watchword was change. Speaking then, he was not the head of the executive, but the lawyer of the people. The country was not assured the government of complex problems, but the advent of a beautiful year. Fourteen months later, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must acknowledge that at least you have spoken about change: the ease with which you have changed the majority, feeling that you can remain in your place with the greens and the reds, will remain in the annals of the Republic. On the other hand, at the end of August, the people's lawyer became a vestal of Parliament's centrality. It did not matter that the Government of the Count 1, at the initiative of the political force that had expressed its name, had tried to dismantle it with an idea of a proactive referendum that would remove it from any role. The "Count 2" needed at that moment an overabundant rhetoric on parliamentary sovereignty to justify the almost caricatured repositioning of a practice that in other periods of the history of Italy had been numbered, with more serious characters, under the voice "transformism." In keeping with the practice, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in announcing your resignation, you have drawn in this House a portrait of your then Vice-Premier and Minister of the Interior using gloomy colours, far beyond the resentment of the motion of distrust presented to you. According to your description, President Conte, we should consider that you have ruled for fourteen months with a politically opportunist, ominous, institutionally insensitive and constitutionally uncultivated person: you said so yourself, President. Except to hear us say from his voice, in the same speech and without a solution of continuity, that the newly fallen Executive, of which Matteo Salvini was a carrier, had produced wonders until the last day. President Conte, allow me to make a joke to dedramatize: with this change you have to understand Trump who called it "Giuseppi," in the plural... Colleagues of the center-right, we come to us. It has been said that the end of the previous Executive was decided by too many "nos." On some fronts - I think of great works - this is certainly true. But even if those who had looked at the yellow-green experiment without prejudice to the reason have felt relief for its conclusion, I believe it was for some "yes" too. Yes to citizenship income. Yes to judicial Jacobinism. Yes to a culture of preemptive suspicion that affects everyone, except censors. Yes to the veto against the recognition of Maduro's opponent. Yes, to leave open to the Constitutional Court on the decriminalization of assisted suicide. The truth, at the bottom, is that the change ends in itself, freed from an ideal vision and horizon, did not stand the test of effort. The truth is that in this year and little more the League has interpreted very effectively many of the needs and worries of the Italians, but, estranged from a coalition to be renewed and rebuilt, despite the consensus ended up not being able to counter those who have openly aimed at its isolation. Now there is a danger on all of us. This Government will try to complete the work: to bring Italy back to a pathologically blocked system; to reclaim a political area, however numerically important, in the enclosure of irrelevance; to institutionalize neo-transformism with the change of electoral law; and, although Italy is not France and the Italian right it has very little to do with the National Front, it will try to transform it into a collective Le Pen, gratified by the consent but excluded by the possibility of translating it into government action. Against such a scenario we must fight without ambiguity and shyness, for the sake of our country even before our political side. This perverse design may fail, and it is possible that from its failure a new and more mature bipolarism is born. Among the contractors of the new Executive could in fact prove structural affinity: the transition from the contract to the program agreement seems to prefigure it, and the speech of President Conte confirms the prognosis. Much of this exigent game of system will depend on us. From what the center-right will be able to renew itself and restructure itself, and from what will lead a harsh opposition of the people without neglecting to turn to its organized forms: to the intermediate bodies, to the categories, to the producers of ideas, to the social aggregations. From what I know how to combine the need for security with the love of freedom. From what he knows how to oppose a regressive progressiveism - other than neo-humanism, President Conte - an idea of the future built on the solid foundations of a civilization to be defended with all our strength. [[Applause from Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u73	She is enrolled to speak Senator Segre, to whom I address so many dear wishes for a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u74	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u76	Thank you, President. It's eighty-nine, the years. [[Applause]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my attitude to the reality and climate of the new government is of concern but, at the same time, of hope. I was worried about the many episodes that have followed during the last year that have often made me fear an inexorable embarrassment of our society: the cases of racism, increasingly widespread, treated with indulgence, in an empathetic way, that almost seem to have entered the normality of our civil life, but alarming is also the spread of the languages of hatred, both in the Network and in the public debate. All too often the healthy confrontation of ideas is replaced by the systematic dileggio of the opponent, with the use of religious symbols, which to me have the effect of a farseque but dangerous revival of the Gott mit uns. They do that to me. Maybe just me in this House. [[Comments of Senator Pianasso]] Excuse me, Senator? PIANASSO (L-SP-PSd'Az). The President of the Council went to Vespa with Father Pio's saint! Isn't that worth it? President Segre, I invite you to address the Presidency. Please continue. SEGRE (Mixed). The politics that invests in hatred is always a two-sided medal. It does not only harm those who are chosen as targets, but it also burns the hearts of those who live with anger and despair the discomfort caused by the crisis that has been going through the continent for a decade. Hate spreads and this is all the more dangerous. To me they taught that "he who saves a life saves the whole world", for this reason a world in which those who save lives, rather than rewarded, are punished seems to me like an upside down world. I believe that acceptance makes our society wiser and more human. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Another cause for dismay was given to me by seeing that the festival of April 25, a national festival that should unite the Italian people around the Liberation, was, only by some irresponsible, reduced to a sort of feud among typhoseries. I don't think that's how a ruling class behaves. But I want to come to hope now. I would like the new government to be born not only from legitimate assessments of political convenience, but above all from the awareness of the escaped danger, from that sense of relief that comes after that, reached the edge of the precipice, you have just portraits in time. In short, I expect the new Government to work concretely to restore a field of shared values, made of constant defense of democracy and the principles of solidarity provided for in our Constitution, born of the Resistance. I too, personally, make a simple request, made in parliamentary fora, as my contribution to a better future. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, I presented a draft law, then turned into a motion, which I very much care about. It is the creation of a Commission to guide and monitor the phenomena of hate speech, violence, intolerance, racism and anti-Semitism. It is a subject that I unfortunately know: I have lived on my skin as from the words of hatred it is easy to move to action. Realising this Commission would signal a political response to the problems facing us. I hope that majority and opposition will set up the Commission immediately. Finally, I am thinking of the teaching of history, a very special discipline, because it teaches us not to fall back on the mistakes of the past. Losing history is one of the first side effects of losing the future. Discipline is disappearing not only from the exams of maturity, but from the very consciousness of people and without historical memory, humanity is condemned to dehumanization. I appreciated the commitment of the past Government to the re-introduction of civic education, but not just one more subject to be taught in schools: civic education needs to reach all of us citizens, with the example that we can give, that gives the political class, the women and men who serve the country in our institutions. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] The Constitution commits us to behave with discipline and honor, but also sobriety and respect for opponents. A political class that does not act according to a new and democratic style will not live up to its responsibilities. My hope is, finally, that the new Government will also assume and make the sense of that civil duty, of that vocation to the general interest that comes from the verses of John Donne: Never ask for those who ring the bell: it sounds for you. It is in this spirit that I am going to vote, confidently, in favour of the new Government. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u77	She is registered to speak Senator Borgonzoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u78	Mr President, burglars of democracy: this is you, this is you, Mr Conte, this is the PD. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You sold us out to Europe for a few chairs, one of which is yours, President Conte, an armchair you care about so much and you have shown that you are a President for all, so that you can keep it. Thanks to his thirst for power, he brought back to the government those who did not pass the popular vote for the umpteenth time; those who approved and wanted the jobs act, a measure that brought only hatred towards the workers; those who in a single year made us invade by more than 180,000 illegals; those who wanted the reform Fornero, who folded an entire group of people, pensioners who had to retire and did not succeed, who perhaps did not have the job and who for years found themselves going to the social workers to pity what was their right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is because pensioners and those who were to retire for the party that you bring back to power have no rights and must not have any rights. Who didn't protect the scams? Shall we talk about banks? You have spoken of banks; you too, Mr President. It seemed that until the other day he had a completely different position, but now he brings back to the government those who did not protect the people cheated by the banks, indeed he winked for many years to those who cheated them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even with them he would like to dismantle a series of measures made by the League, one on all immigration: he would like to reopen the ports. What does it mean to reopen the ports? Raise the dead at sea again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In a hypocritical way, to fill with NGOs the waters that go from Libya to Italy, with the deaths that increase. The PD also knows this very well, but the PD is probably more interested in the money that goes to their red cooperatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And you will allow it. It will also allow this, it will allow an invasion of new slaves (if not worse, of criminals or terrorists), an invasion that we had stopped, that lower the rights of workers all, that lower wages, because, let's remember, there are no jobs that the Italians do not want to do, but there are wages and rights that they do not want to accept and that should not be accepted by anyone. President Conte, I see you are distracted now, but I must ask you something important. Mr President, if you can listen to me, I have to ask you something that I think is important to everyone, and especially to you, who told and tells us that he is the President of the people and citizens, the lawyer of all. I ask you about Bibbiano. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Do you know what happened to Bibbiano? (Senator Borgonzoni takes off her jacket and shows a T-shirt with the words: "Let's talk about Bibbiano". The Senators of the Group [[L-SP-PSd'Azsi stand up and applaud.]] Because maybe she...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u79	Please put your jacket back on. There are no admissible performances in this House. Get it together and put it back on like it used to be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Senator Borgonzoni, I have to take your word for it. Don't make me do this. Put your jacket back on, please. I have to suspend the session. I am sorry, because this morning everything took place in the utmost fairness. Please put your shirt back on. Otherwise, I'll suspend the session. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.12 a.m. and resumed at 13.17 a.m.) Senator Borgonzoni, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u80	I'm sorry I didn't see anyone at government booths. Perhaps, then, I was wrong: it is not that the President of the Council does not know what Bibbiano is, but he does not want to talk about Bibbiano either. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This honestly worries me a lot, because I believe that on the Bible, given even everything we have said, the Government, unlike before, now does not want to understand what happens in the trusts. Mr President, I am very upset that the President-in-Office of the Council has gone on such an issue, which concerns children taken away by families, by desperate families. Bibbiano comes from a somewhat longer story, which the Democratic Party certainly knows well, since it governed the Emilia-Romagna Region even when the events of twenty years ago occurred in Modena, in which we find involved people who are also interested in the current ones. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What I wanted to say to the President is that he brings back to the government those who ruled a region where they were silenced in the face of such events. At the beginning of 2018... There's only one. The whole government's gone. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Where are you, transformer? Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). If we talk about the Bible, everyone leaves. That's the shame. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame! Shame! Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). He doesn't care about children or families. But you are right: the PD must be ashamed, because it did not give answers. But you must also be ashamed of others, who give space to you. MALPEZZI (PD). You must be ashamed! CHOIR OF VOICES BY GROUP L-SP-PSD'AZ. Bibbiano! Bibbiano! [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Azal Group when the President of the Council joined the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u81	Please! Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). As you well know, President, I come from a region like Emilia-Romagna, where the facts of Bibbiano are not the first. Twenty years ago in Modena... VALENTE (PD). Get the campaign out of here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, don't interrupt. I'd like to listen. CHOIR OF VOICES BY GROUP L-SP-PSD'AZ. Dignity! Dignity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop! There is no lack of dignity in this House. Please continue. MALPEZZI (PD). But you have to be ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop! Talk to me. I don't like that there's a fight and an answer. Everyone, talk to me. Go on. Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I do not think I should be ashamed when it comes to such situations, on which we also call for the setting up of committees of inquiry, because they are before everyone's eyes. Perhaps one should be ashamed of those who ruled and did nothing when those facts occurred, or after the Veleno investigation that spoke of events that happened twenty years ago in Modenese, which we denounced in the Region in 2018, asking who knew and who did not know and why absolutely nothing was done. Perhaps we should be ashamed to make a commission of inquiry in the region that is requested by the League but whose President is of the Democratic Party, which is the same that gave the direct award to the association that is now to the honors of the chronicle and of which we have now read in the shameful intercepts on the facts of Bible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u82	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Senator Valente's comments.]] I hope - but I realize that it is difficult, given the government's lack of presence - that this will go on, because similar things cannot be silenced. We must give answers to citizens and all those children about why nobody has done anything for 20 years. This has probably been going on for 20 years and perhaps not just there. You won't run away from people's judgment forever. You were able to suspend - good! - democracy; you suspended it for a while. Soon there will be regional elections: there will be elections in Umbria, Emilia-Romagna and Calabria. Then you will be confronted with the vote of the citizens, who have rejected you in all the elections of recent years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If you do not play palace games, in fact, you cannot govern, because you do not have the vote of citizens. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I am referring to the agreements you have made in Europe to stop the League and Salvini. We are also aware of these agreements in the statements made by the former Minister Trenta, who was shocked that she had not been confirmed as Minister, since she had done everything to stop Salvini, as if the Ministers of the same Government had the task of hindering the other Ministers. We also heard that in his recordings. You won't shut up and you won't be able to hide what happened to Bibbiano, and we promise and assure you, as you won't reopen the ports. We're gonna stop you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You can't run away forever! Remember that! When you return - sooner or later you will be obliged to give the citizens the floor for the national vote - you will be swept away by democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Remember that and it will soon happen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations). CHOIR OF VOICES BY GROUP L-SP-PSD'AZ. Dignity, dignity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u83	Mr President, it would have been easier for me to begin my speech after the intervention of Senator Segre, of whom I have shared all the words, rather than after the speech just ended. [[Applause from the PD Group]] While realizing that there will be elections in Emilia-Romagna, the Senate Assembly should not be the venue for electoral meetings. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 13:24 p.m. (Following PINOTTI). President-in-Office of the Council, I listened carefully to the speech you presented to Parliament about trust. I felt in his words the need for a breakthrough and a novelty. The new adjective has been used by you many times. I agree with the need. I want to highlight, in particular, the aspects of newness on which my sharing is stronger. You spoke of putting an end to a season of hatred to open a season of hope and the future. This is a primary requirement of our country. Italy also has fragility - I am thinking of public debt - but it has enormous potential in its manufacturing capacity, in Made in Italy, in culture, in its beauties, an invaluable heritage. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u84	Colleagues of the League, you can continue outside the Chamber. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We can't keep working. Don't make me call you individually for the shorthand report. The Group's very strong chatter is heard by the Presidency. That goes for when you guys talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u85	By developing tools that allow you to compete, our country can go far. I visited businesses, startups, universities, research centers. Really the potential is enormous. We are a great country that needs to be helped to express its strength: we have capable young people, trained, smart, motivated, who are often forced to go abroad not by choice but by necessity. We must look to them to allow them to have in Italy - here, in our country - the opportunity to express themselves to the best and to be the new engine of our nation. Well, then, the space given to the centrality of the school, university and research. However - and we also refer to what happened just now - if politics, the places of the institutions do not correct a modality and a language that put in the foreground the ridicule, a wrinkled clash, the insult in these places that are - willing or not - guides for our country, because the Italians look at us and listen to us and we should be an example; if we do not change also in these places, hardly in the country the quality of the confrontation will become such to open to hope and the future. We in Parliament all bear the responsibility for a necessary change. I say this remembering the extremely hard confrontation and beyond reason that we have had between the forces that now support the new Government; but I also say this respecting the opposition and not from now (when it expresses itself in civil tones and brings its own reasons, not when it makes scenes), hoping that the democratic dialogue will take place in harmony different from those that we have heard in the past months. As for Europe, I too gladly greet the Italian Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni. The President-in-Office of the Council rightly pointed out that his work in Europe avoided two infringement procedures and agreed positively on public finances. I think it was a success of his role and he did well to claim it: we shared it. On this path you have acquired more forcefully the experience of how Europe is not our enemy, but the ground in which to grow our potential; a Europe that is not only guardian of the stability of the accounts, but also knows how to understand and interpret how much development and the social dimension must be fed and are the humus on which it was founded and must continue to base a Europe homeland and model of liberal democracies, the homeland of those values of humanism that you have recalled for Italy. It is a Europe that we must encourage to be stronger, to bet on its growth, of which stability and rules must be in support, and on its possibilities of being a fundamental actor in the world. Let us think about Africa: the big bet of a response that holds together security, legality and humanity in the challenge of migration can only be played in Europe. The development and stability of the African continent is the bet for today and the future of Europe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us move on to the political perspective. This government plays its challenge if it does the things that serve the country - not if it announces them - but even if it knows how to open a horizon different from what it has dominated in the previous phase. It is right to have chosen the profile of a shared project and not the antinomic juxtaposition of opposing objectives, as was the Government contract. The real challenge for the political forces that make up the majority today is whether they will be able to transform these common objectives into shared values. It is not a problem of formulas, of just political geometries, and it is not taken for granted. However, if we work on the things to do we meet in horizons of shared values, then from that will arise yes and no; that is, they will arise from the ability to propose to the country a progressive project that puts at the center of Article 3 of our Constitution and I quote the second part of it: It is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as a woman, as a politician, as a mother, I would like to stress with force some concrete objectives that you have indicated. He spoke of the need for equalization between the salaries of women and men; he recalled that gender equality is a fundamental horizon for a country that wants to progress; he defended - and I do so too - with strength and affection his minor Bellanova and De Micheli, who were the object of shameful sexist attacks. Then there is a problem that is fundamental for the future of our country: Italy lives a serious problem of birth, few children are born and with few children it is difficult to bet on the future. We need policies for families. Years ago, other nations posed this problem to us. I would remind you that the current President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, when he was Minister of the Family, made important investments in this area. The guidelines are three: more work and more pay for women, because it is shown that the more women work and the more they are paid and the more they have children; detaxation of families with children; finally the services, the kindergartens, of which you said. President Conte, you spoke of free kindergartens for families with medium-low incomes and even more pay and more work for women. I think that it is also useful to have a tax policy that is facilitated for families and that even on every pink or blue bow that compared to previous years we will have in Italy we will be able to measure the goodness of our new horizons. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u86	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u87	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the speech you read yesterday in the House, both long and encyclopedic, is ultimately a dream book: a comprehensive programme, without priority and without concreteness, which - I am sorry - ends up being a fair of the obvious. Is there anyone who wouldn't want daycare anymore? Is there anyone else who would like more pollution? Is there anyone who would not want higher wages and more efficient public services? A government programme, however, cannot be just a list of wishes, but it must refer to interventions to be carried out with resources identified in a precise way and with priorities. You know, my mom Catterina - written with two t for a svarion, but she was very fond of it - would have said "excellent and plentiful," above all plentiful, but immediately after to remember that between saying and doing there is the sea and, as far as I am concerned and as far as More Europe is concerned, there is a real ocean in the middle here. The clear point, Mr Conte, is that your Commission intends to use the deficit even more broadly than the previous one, deceiving in my opinion the Italians twice: on the one hand, there is the illusion that the deficit is free, that it will not become a burden on the shoulders of the taxpayers of tomorrow and on the young; on the other hand, the illusion is that it is unlimited, when we know very well that in Europe under the red carpets the stakes remain very tight. Let us also admit that we can achieve 10 billion more deficits: would it cover less than a third of the promises on VAT and on cutting the tax wedge and covering everything else? I am referring to school, health, public services and collective goods. In my opinion, there are the usual vagueness about fighting evasion and spending reviews, about which I have heard since I was much younger. Someone wrote days ago that the Giallorossi macroeconomic approach is not very different from that of the Giallorossi Government: it is a son of the conviction that Italy can only grow if it makes more public deficits and that solidarity in the end means distributing debts. It's not my conception. Solidarity means distributing wealth; but, in order to distribute wealth, it must also be created. There is, however, one thing on which your programme is very clear: you and your government do not want to undo anything done by the previous Executive. Giuseppe Conte 2 is more than indulgent than Count 1. Its announced innovations seem to me to be an impressive continuity, starting from the security decrees, not to mention the 100 quota, the income of citizenship, the blocking of the prescription and the cut of the parliamentarians, presented as a pure outrage to the representativeness of Parliament. With this program, this government promises everything to almost everyone. But I think you need to be careful about the risk of not politically resurrecting former Deputy Prime Minister Salvini, who frankly crippled himself out of arrogance. Knowing how to win already is difficult; even wanting to win is normally a huge mistake. Keeping him out of the Viminal is positive, but be careful not to create the conditions that bring him back directly to Palazzo Chigi. If you promise everything to everyone, it creates expectations that very soon - as you know - are likely to turn into dissatisfaction (let's say so, to use euphemism). If you have one minute of time, to avoid any changes you have already seen, you can perhaps tell the still inexperienced Foreign Minister Di Maio that the Farnesina cannot become the headquarters of a party, nor can it become the seat of a shadow government of a minister who already exists to the government, but also wants a shadow government. If you continue to promise everything that, according to your accusation, the betrayal of the League has prevented you from maintaining, then I fear that failure will return to open the way to the other party of Italian populism, because, in the race to the biggest shooter, it is difficult to beat the former Minister of the Interior, really difficult. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The government you chaired until a few weeks ago was the most hostile to the European Union. Allow me not to believe in a closed box that, within a few days, he has become a Europeanist leader and with you Minister Di Maio and with him all the 5 Stars; let me at least have this doubt. And here I want to tell you that the fact that your former government fell out of implosion is good news. And it is good news that the division of appointments within the new majority has brought Paolo Gentiloni Silveri to the European Commission and Minister Gualtieri to the Ministry of Economy. I think it's two good choices. I shall conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. More Europe was born to build an alternative to the populist drift of Italian politics. We left when - in our opinion - the political challenge to Europe and the rule of law that came from anti-political movements, such as the 5 Star Movement, and nationalist movements, such as the League, was not even clear to almost anyone. So today, on behalf of More Europe, I will vote against trusting your new government, which is still in danger of being, compared to the previous government, only different populist. The political and parliamentary opposition of More Europe will not only be constructive, but also alternative to that today led by the party that has been the last reference shareholder of its previous majority. It will be opposed to that of Salvini: have no doubt about it. It is I - and I have concluded - that I have doubts about the fact that the Government can act in a totally opposite way to how it did with Salvini. You, Professor Conte, may be the successor, but you cannot become the alternative of yourself. That is really asking too much. I'm willing to change my mind. But you and your Executive must first demonstrate that you are able to change politics radically and substantially, in language and also in giving and telling the truth to Italian citizens, who at least want to know what the priorities of this Government are, in a situation where there is no money for anyone. So, please, no more illusions and no more lies: hope is something else. Without embarrassing Kennedy, whom we all remember, telling the truth makes Italian citizens grow, makes the political class grow and makes everyone more responsible. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lomuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to avoid giving adjectives that sound today, because often, abstractly stated, only on the premises and promises of a possible structural change of the government of the country, they know in general either of rhetoric or of instrumental use. For this reason I would like to avoid above all expressions such as "historical moment," "extraordinary epochal phase," or "golden period," despite agreeing to the economy of an intervention in the Chamber, addressed to the senators and the Italians, thus putting my conscience in order and passing the concept to those who are distracted that we are going to corroborate something good, but without any evidence that this is true and that it will actually happen. I believe that never, like this time, must we abandon these superlative adjectives, because we must reserve them - of this I am convinced - for the moment when this nascent Government will really be able to enact laws important for the collective good and not personal or party or - even worse - lobbying. And this is also because the task we are called today, in giving the vote of confidence to the new Executive led by Professor Conte, is not to make the Italians believe to go towards Lamerica, as he was convinced to do Spiro, the character of the beautiful film by Gianni Amelio, meaning for Lamerica not a physical and real place, but the ideal place of administrative perfection. By voting yes to the new government led by Prime Minister Conte, I do not aspire to create a paradise, perfect and impeccable and perhaps utopian. For us Italians, who have come from one hundred and fifty years of troubled history - first the colonization of southern Italy, then fascism, then the Republic in all its phases, which has alternated great laws, such as those on the rights of workers, with bad expressions of political lobbyism - aspire to much more, which already in its term is devastating, innovative and revolutionary. As a senator and as a citizen of this new government adventure, I aspire to make my contribution so that this beautiful country, which is called Italy, will finally become normal; a normal country where I, as a citizen, should not be afraid of a simple and daily gesture like that of taking something from the shelf of a supermarket; where I must not fear the times of justice and the quality of public health; I must not fear the environment in which I live and must not fear to be European; a country where I do not have to expose the functionality of my liver to a constant transfer of bile, because in one hundred and fifty years we have not been able to connect bureaucracy to the real needs of the country, public administration to the needs of the citizen, the work to the future of our children, because perhaps, while in England they find funding for the innovative startups of many young graduates, in Italy it is easier for the children and grandchildren of the barons of the university to be found in Italy. I believe that no government born from a crazy electoral law, a majority system that acts as a proportional one, can aspire to realize in Italy Lamerica, a country rich, beautiful and also noble, perfect, where everything works like a Swiss watch. I apologize to my fellow Members, but today I am going very hard with clichés. However, I believe that if we are committed to ourselves and to our children, instead, the possibility of finally transforming Italy into a normal country, where the citizen basically trusts the State and the State of its citizens can be within our reach. It may seem strange, but we are a nation that does not trust its institutions and - what is worse - the widespread impression is that our institutions are banning citizens. I do not deny anything of the previous Government agreement, but I say that a new and normal Italy can never be born if only I think of article 12 contained in the text of the regional autonomy presented by the League, article made then Cassare by the Movimento 5 Stars and the Prime Minister Conte; or if I think of the statement of the other day of the Lombard Governor, Attilio Fontana: They give us school or we make our own law. Welcome to Italy! If nothing is born from diamonds - I quote Fabrizio De André - no normal Italy can be born from blackmail or from a government group that, with the request for advanced regional autonomy, in reality, does not think of what allows the Italian Constitution, but looks to other countries - I think of Slovenia or Croatia - in spite of a hundred and fifty years of struggles, pains, sorrows, but also feelings, loves and victories to realize a united state where the Italian identity finds its natural refuge. Dear colleagues, Ministers, allow me, without any desire to make controversy on this important day: no normal Italy can be born even with the protagonism of those in this hoped-for external majority solutions, criticisms and future scenarios, which - in my opinion - are of division and not of march in common. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I say this to recall the respect of the Commissions who worked hard in the Senate and the House. As Minister, I would go first to read all the work done in the previous fourteen months, avoiding to tighten the hearts of those who have worked hard for the common good also in agriculture and transport. In conclusion, President, I agree on discontinuity as a criterion for forming the new Government, only that I mean it as discontinuity not only from the previous Government, but also and above all from old issues and old resentments; as one of the bases on which to realize the new Government and - I repeat again - a normal country. In greeting the new composition of Government; in greeting the President of the Count Council; in greeting and thanking, for their excellent work, all the members of the 5 Star Movement of the previous Government, I clearly say yes to the new Government for hope and conviction. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u91	Professor Conte, fellow senators, today opens a curtain, an unbecoming political spectacle. In fact, the political spectacle fails; a new spectacle begins. It opens the curtain behind which once again appears you, Professor Giuseppe Conte. Scene shot: There is no precedent in republican history. This is obviously a case of transformation: it will tell history if it was a case of transformation to Agostino Depretis or Leopoldo Fregoli. I hope that you will be able to prove that you belong to the first category, which, unquestionably, for good and evil, is part of the Italian political tradition. It seems useless at this point to repeat things already said, obvious situations: the most left-wing government in republican history; the Government that is born for the survival instinct of aspiring leaders, of old leaders, of pieces of parties, of political movements. It is quite clear, as it is clear, that this Government will necessarily have to make a regressive policy with regard to the economy - a policy aimed not at development but, at best, at redistribution - and that there will be delays in security policies and immigration policies. Everything clear, everything already planned, everything inevitable. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I have two desperate appeals to you on two very specific issues: this morning I tabled a draft law, which I deposited here in the Senate, in order to ensure that that - in my opinion very serious - rule which your previous Government adopted a year ago, which blocked the indexation of pensions, is repealed. This is an unconstitutional rule in my opinion, a rule with retroactive effects and certainly unfair from the social point of view: putting your hands in the pockets of pensioners, however - but this is almost secondary - to finance a demencial measure such as the income of citizenship, is a serious matter. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Please, Professor Conte, take that bill: we have the cover; if you have the power, you attribute it to the Democratic Party Group, to the 5 Star Movement Group. Make it your own: approve it; Take away my name and put the name of whom you want; it is a matter of social justice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is also a matter of justice - I must say that you have spoken about it, and also well, in your speech on trust - that of the earthquake. His words were impeccable: they were the words spoken by a President-in-Office of the Council who, in the fourteen months just past, honestly - and you know this - disinterested himself in the question of earthquake: his Government, the majority who supported it, invested neither resources nor time nor thought to solve the problem of the future of our fellow countrymen who live in the crater of the earthquake in central Italy. I'm elected to the Marches and I can testify that reconstruction has yet to begin there. You said it would be a priority for your government, which is a credit to you. You said that last time, and the fact that you didn't do it didn't do you any credit. I believe that he understood that this is a priority and that there is at stake not his personal reputation, but the honour, the legitimacy of the Italian State and of all of us. Please be consistent with the words you have spoken in the House and which I imagine you will repeat here in your reply. Make the earthquake the priority of this government, but do it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We wrote a letter to Undersecretary Crimes in the pre-summer period, listing priorities and solutions. Also in this case, use the same criterion that I indicated to you before: your face, take away my signature and put the signature of whoever you want. Those are the priorities, those are the things to do and we don't argue. I believe that politics must be looked at from above in terms of the system. In terms of system, your government has two important merits: institutionalizes and normalizes the Movimento 5 Stars that I don't think will die today. Today the Movimento 5 Stars - I say it in spite of - is born and reborn, because it frees itself of that ideological armament that represented the bond to the active politics, and can finally actively make politics, that up to now has not been able to do because harnessed in its ideology. A coalition is born that is homogeneous, because between the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars, between most of the elected of the PD and most of the elected of the 5 Stars - not all of them I think - there is consonance: on economic policy, on policies to migration and on social policies. This is good for the country. The problem of Forza Italia will now be to represent an alternative policy to a legitimate policy of the left, which - in my opinion - will be written down, it will hurt the country, but it will still be a policy. This is our task and we intend to accomplish it with our historical allies, if our historical allies stop barking at the moon; vice versa we will accomplish it ourselves. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u93	President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, my brief speech focuses on an issue which is of particular concern to me, namely the enhancement, protection and development of special autonomy and linguistic minorities. In recent times, when we talk about differentiated autonomy, an extremely topical theme, we tend to confuse and understand in the term - as everyone knows, it refers to the request of the ordinary regions to have more competences - also the regional realities with special statute, which are quite different entities, which represent about 9 million citizens, from the point of view of their genesis and their reason to be. The specialty is based on linguistic, territorial, geographical and historical reasons, and it is not a means to feel superior, nor a privilege, but it is a formidable instrument that the genius of the constituent Fathers wanted to insert into the Constitution; an indispensable instrument to live difficult and challenging territories such as the mountains, such as the great mountain, and the high lands of Europe that I have the honour to represent in this Senate. It is therefore essential for us to be able to continue to exercise our autonomy with special laws, an administration that is as close as possible to our needs, often very demanding. All this in order to allow our people to continue living our valleys in a dignified way. Mr. Conte, your clear reference in the government programme, although short and concise, to the safeguarding and enhancement of the linguistic minorities of the Regions under special statute is particularly welcome. We have important needs, such as the modernisation of infrastructure and the railway line in particular; the strengthening of tourism, trade and industry; the possibility of maintaining a quality welfare (health and social policies) taking into account that in the mountains the cost of these basic services increases by 30%; the safeguarding of our wonderful environment; support for mountain agriculture, increasingly linked to Community logics, which often result in difficulties; support for our small municipalities and their mayors, real heroes of the territory (in this sense my request goes to review, rather than abolish, the payment to the State of the overcast IMU, which is a municipal tax and should remain in the availability of the mayors) and, again, the recovery of the Joint Commission, which is a fundamental hub in relations with the State. More generally, I would like you to pay attention to mountain policies. I conclude by stressing the need to restart our country as soon as possible, confirming my positive attitude towards this new Executive, also for its clearly Europeanist line; a confidence that I have well thought out, that will be clearly renewed, in particular, during the discussion of the draft budget law, if there are results and concrete repercussions for my territory. Good job. [[Applause from Senator Bressa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u94	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u95	Mr President, Mr President of the Count 2 Government, if it were a movie, it could be called 'The Return' or 'Revenge', but it is not a film, rather a story of a fact made, indeed, from our point of view, of a complete misdeeds and of the absence of consensus. The handful of minutes I have at my disposal I want to dedicate it precisely to this concept of lack of consent. There is no consensus among you, you have declared it, you do not like it. You fought here and outside until yesterday and sought every justification and alibi for the agreement you wanted to make against any political nature. Above all, there is no consensus in the citizens: it has been estimated that almost 60% are in negative judgment from the start. It is a distant percentage of distrust - the highest - from all successive governments since 2006 (the only exception, the Silver Gentilon Government, which had an even lower percentage). There would have been no consensus if there had been a vote, an election, as we called for and as a citizens' right. That is why we have not returned to the polls. You used the concept of parliamentary democracy as a human shield against the will of the people, you were afraid of the elections. In fact, those who have lost regional elections and European elections are returning to the government today. The Movimento 5 Stars has lost about 6 million votes, while the PD returns to the Government without winning the elections, as has already happened more than once in recent years. The truth - at least the idea that I have made myself - is that today you are not interested in consensus, in the sense that you do not need it: you are more interested in maintaining or resuming power, depending on the case. However, you have a consensus and this must be recognized: it is what comes to you from Brussels, it is what comes to you from Macron, it is that of Merkel, it is that of Tusk, it is that of Ursula von der Leyen, it is that of speculative finance and financial markets. That's all that tells us who you are and we don't like it. You do not have the consent of the majority of public opinion and your parliamentary majority is a mathematical sum for an impossible synthesis. It is like mixing water and oil; it is above all a sum far from the country's political geometries, which have proved to be with the election results and have been confirmed by the polls. Your majority in the palace is full of a constitutional principle, but it clashes with other principles, which provide for concordance between the electoral body - I quote - and the parliamentary body. And it is expected that the Chambers will be dissolved, if deemed appropriate, when there is disharmony between the activities of the elect and popular sentiment: your case. This government is without consensus and it is the Government of anti-democratic disharmony that has trampled on the people whose sovereignty belongs. It is the government of contradictions that today calls for confidence in the Senate. He's gonna rip it off by a few votes, of course not ours. We distrust you in this House, but the country has already done so in the streets yesterday. He did it with his common sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u96	Senator Rauti, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u97	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, my colleague spoke less than fifty seconds. I'm going, by the way, to the conclusions. Senator, mine was just a warning. I would have allowed her to finish anyway. RAUTI (FdI). Thank you. Today we are voting against this government. The sovereign Italy that you have prevented from voting today will fail you and, when the elections return, it will overwhelm you. It will be a nationwide force against the elites. It will be the force that will restore the relationship, today broken, between the people and politics. Then you won't be able to stop the wind with your hands. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u98	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u99	14,02 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u100	Mr. Conte, yours is a real bad example. If a boy were to be told how to approach politics today, how can he be explained that the President-in-Office of the Council of a majority becomes, without interruption, the President of a different and opposite majority? Scandals of all kinds are rightly fought with severity. Your conduct is a scandal, President Conte. You're going to go down in history just for this, not for anything else. I won't take care of your encyclopedic program, because it's full of lies. Suffice it to say that you announced visits to the earthquake victims, as Senator Cangini mentioned earlier. But what did he do for a year and a half for earthquake victims and reconstruction? Absolutely nothing! As, moreover, the government that preceded it. Nothing has been done! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Senator Airola's comments.]] You said that the parties that support the government have shown courage. Of course! It takes courage to do something like that in front of the Italians. Huge courage! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He did not tell us anything about another topical issue, which I would like to recall, that of the end of life. On 24 September, the Constitutional Court must give its ruling. We want Parliament to discuss life and euthanasia. I am against euthanasia, but let us discuss it here, without giving the Constitutional Court a right that belongs to Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I want to address the center of the right, because talking to you is a waste of effort. For you, only opposition and open-face political battle. It's the center-right we're interested in. It was established in 1994, after many efforts, by Berlusconi, which we must thank for that effort, but we must try to transform that natural majority in Italy into a permanent majority of government. We had a clear victory of the centre-right in 1994. In 1996, the center-right had a majority of votes, but he did not go to the government because he split up, colleagues of the League. Otherwise, with the sum of the votes of those parties would rule in that legislature as well. In 2001, united, he won again. In 2006, he took more votes in the Senate. In the House there was a suspicion of fraud, but the battle conducted by the Senate brought down Prodi and did not make time to ascertain whether the frauds had occurred or not. Then, in 2008, the united center-right wins. In 2013, despite the wild assaults carried out in the previous years in Berlusconi, the left does not get the majority in both rooms. In 2018 (now, one could say, in historical terms), it was the center-right coalition that took the most votes, but not enough to rule. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] This is the recent Italian history. You don't need comments and screams like fans. There is a natural majority, which is our task to transform into a reality of permanent government of the country, and not of others. Forza Italia must reason and make proposals in the light of the sun, because political problems are solved only by political proposals. We're on the field. We are not in the stands screaming and we must give the sense of a team game, without the illusion of playing alone, that maybe this summer has produced some setback. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then, we realize that the world does not live ordinary times. In America, Trump, with his positions that appear crude, with his America First achieves success. In the United Kingdom in these hours there is an epochal confrontation, with Boris Johnson, abrupt, who may or may not like it, who closes Parliament, who even evokes the struggles of centuries ago of James I and Cromwell, but with the English who prefer his abrupt positions to May's caution. In Germany, and I am not happy with that, extremist parties take a lot of votes, and that is a problem. Many, in fact, invoke wisdom and moderation and then vote for those who are most agitated. That is the reality. For Italy, for historical and identity reasons, it can only be a promoter of an alternative to the left, and even more so to this Government of three left: there is also LEU. We must use needle and thread to sew the center-right, where those with more numbers now must be aware of their duties and political limits of a solitary action, while serving international shores and dialogue in social complexity. Drastic positions may encounter strong consensus, but governing is a more difficult thing; you have to know how to look at the path of history, rather than the miseries of the chronicle. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not enough just one man in command: it is a model that exalts, but does not lead to lasting victories. Economics and finance can be deprecated, but they exist and have to be governed in some way. We need strong international relations; we also need passions to defend business, work, security and borders. Forza Italia is opposed to neocentrist floats. We founded the center-right and want to bring it back to the government of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Giorgia Meloni a few days ago, addressing the League, said that he did not understand the opening of the crisis - he addressed Salvini - and then asked Di Maio to be the Premier, saying that he worked well. In my opinion, Di Maio has worked badly. ...I aim to work... in order to give Italy a sovereign government, strong, cohesive and lasting. This was said by the Meloni and I agree with him; just as Berlusconi declared to relaunch a united centre-right. Ladies and gentlemen, we need energy, but we also need strategy. I say this to ourselves: you don't have to be too careful. Mogol said: "Too often wisdom is only the most stagnant prudence." Of adventurism one dies, but also of Realpolitik. We must return a dream called Italy [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , that this government, born of political errors and entanglements, will not return. We say no convinced and with needle and thread we want to sew the center-right that must stand there, because the majority of Italians are with us here. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u101	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u102	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if people feel far away from politics and often despise it, it is also because they see politicians who sometimes consider themselves exempt from the normal rules of conduct that apply in civil society (in the company, in the school and so on), including coherence or at least a minimum of coherence. As far as consistency is concerned, I declare that I am embarrassed today. In expressing myself on your new Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should I be consistent with myself or should I observe the coherence of others? If I were to demand consistency from myself, I could only vote for confidence. I am amazed and satisfied with Europe and the economy. In the positions expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council I echo a vision and policy lines very similar to those I have always supported and defended, from that point of view. [[Ironic applause and comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] as well as from this. These are the lines that, as you recall, at a very difficult time for the Italian community, with the contribution of all parties, except the League and the Movimento 5 Stars (which was not yet in Parliament), have allowed Italy not to give its national sovereignty to a troika, which I hope I will not see in the future. Well, if I were to express myself on the basis of the consistency observed, I could only vote against confidence. This majority and this government are the result - I say this with great serenity - of an unprecedented overall rate of transformation by each of the two major parties of the new coalition. I should say goodbye to this particular transformation, since the port point in terms of the programme is much closer to what I consider useful for Italy, while my judgment on the previous Government is very negative. It is very negative because, in summary, it has compromised, in the confusion and in the disarray both within the Government and in national and international public opinion, the positioning of Italy in the world and in Europe. There has certainly not been an increase in Italian national sovereignty; in fact, we have worked not to increase the only sovereignty that we will one day find realistic, the European one, but to get away from it, rather to increase the already high Russian sovereignty and that of the United States led by a President hostile to the European Union. Mr President, you have rightly pointed out that you have managed to overcome the risk of two infringement procedures. Let us not forget, however, that it was your own Government that created the risk of the two infringement procedures and that, finally, nothing substantial was done for the economic growth that we desperately need. The point is then that of credibility to direct my very modest and single vote today. Is there in you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and in the Movimento 5 Stars, the relative majority party of the previous and current Government, a sufficiently profound and sincere rethink on the positioning of Italy, Europe and the economy? Well, I have decided today to demand more coherence from myself than from others and, therefore, to put to the test an open position and support for the confidence that I will manifest at the time of the vote. I would point out, however, that it is essential for me, but I also believe many others, that there has indeed been a change of direction. To be honest, I would like to point out to you, Mr President, four elements of verification which I shall apply in assessing the individual measures from time to time. The first is strongly echoed in the words of both someone who has declared to support the trust of his Government, such as Senator Zanda, and of someone, such as Senator Bonino, who has stated with very strong arguments his position contrary to it. This point is: do not elude problems, face them with an open face, try to tell the truth. Politics often considers citizens to be much more immature than they are. The citizens understand the truth, they want to hear it and not to be treated as people who cannot understand it. With regard to the second aspect, I have very much appreciated the intergenerational dimension, as you called it, in your programme, with regard to the environment and the climate. Here, I would like to urge you but also all of us because, at least for now, it is not so much in our Italian culture to think that if we leave our children and grandchildren much public debt to make the quality of their lives worse than if we leave them great pollution, with the difference - let me say this - that if we do not do our part to combat climate change, the damage goes on the whole world, on the whole of Europe, while if we are the only ones to burden our children and grandchildren with a large public debt, they will be harmed compared to the peers of other countries because they will not find work because of an economic policy that will only have the task of paying high interest on debt. In seeking growth then, in urging Europe to move towards a policy of greater growth, as is necessary, please, do not anchor yourself in the asphyxiating concept of flexibility: Italy which calls for flexibility point-to-point is an Italy that wants to make more current deficit. It is like an Italy asking for more permission to pollute. It does the same damage to its children because, in the face of debt, it is only with a real and productive investment of the public sector that promotes growth and not a deception for future generations. Thirdly, I would like to suggest, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we govern by looking at the ideas of opposition. Today the oppositions include personalities and parties - so not only the PD that is then, as today, to the Government - who knew how to offer significant contributions to the great coalition that took charge of avoiding the breakdown of Italy both that they were part of it (I remember the great responsibility taken positively by the People of Freedom, by President Berlusconi and for a whole year by exponents who then founded Brothers of Italy) and, at certain times, even that they were not part of it (in this regard, I remember the great contribution that Mr Giorgetti more than any other, as President of the Budget Commission of the House, gave to the constitutional reform on balance of the budget). In today's opposition, there are forces that - let me say - are closer to the needs of companies, productivity and infrastructure than the members of the government on average. Try to listen to them. Finally, we want to put more control over the establishment. This is very necessary in Italy, but it cannot be done without a ruling class. It is necessary that the establishment and the ruling class have an adequate replacement. We all mind making our children and grandchildren pay for inheritance taxes, but can we continue to be the country that has the lowest inheritance taxes and that therefore does nothing to promote the circulation of the elites? In conclusion, I will vote in favour of confidence and, from time to time, I will speak on the basis of what will be my opinion. I hope that I will be able to support individual measures several times, in which case I will support them, as far as I can, even among the domestic and international public. [[Applause from Senator Segre]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u103	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u104	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, I will not dwell on the reasons that led to the fall of the previous Executive and the birth of this, even though in this morning's debate, as happened in the House yesterday, I noticed with some surprise that those who in these hours, and in the past hours, invoked in the squares or in this House an alleged coup (we have recently heard that they call us thieves of democracy) not only show that they are completely fasting the basic rules of our Constitution and our parliamentary democracy, but also shows a good dose of bad faith. The person responsible for the crisis must perhaps look for him among you and I am sure that he will explain to you the reasons why, after having collected an important trust in the security decree- bis dropped a few days later, in the middle of August, the Government, putting the whole country at risk. Those who have not been able to assume half the responsibility have at least the courage to tell the Italians that the Executive has fallen only because of those who wanted full powers. He wanted more and thought - perhaps in the midst of almighty delusions - that Parliament would simply ratify its will. Parliament has fortunately played its role in accordance with our Constitution, because it represents the people and is the highest representative body, and has said no. So be respectful of the rules of parliamentary democracy. President, I start from here because I believe that one of the main tasks of this Government and of the reasons why we support it will be to restore confidence in the institutions and in the ability of the policy to give concrete answers, not only propagandistic, not only flags aimed at the needs of citizens. We must also work for those who invest in our country to have confidence in Italy, in its strength, in its ability to do business, in its talents, in its openness to the world, in its reliability and stability. Who invests in Italy believes in a country firmly anchored to the euro area, which is an active and protagonist and that does not look to a remote past or alliances perhaps with illiberal countries, which would only hurt. Italy, if it wants to be strong, cannot be alone or, worse, a weapon in the hands of those who want to break the European pact, but must have a strong and clear voice in a great transformation that relaunches the European project, which is a project of peace, growth and development. Those who wanted to leave Italy alone may be sovereign, but they are not patriotic, they do not love their homeland, because those who love Italy want it strong in the world. Someone here, on the other hand, would prefer her weak, but perhaps led by a man presumed strong. There is, however, a difference. Italy today needs to be pacified, to rediscover the path of dialogue and normality. It is a country that needs to return to a democratic dialectic and to stop being prey to the worst instincts and a machismo that has produced no concrete result, apart from the direct Facebook with undoubtedly many listenings. I think of a country that can no longer bear violent and contemptuous language, a country where those who govern do not bully opponents on social media but who listens and respects all the interlocutors. President Conte, the new humanism you have described, I hope, can begin with the language and meaning of the institutions. I say this to my colleagues who, even today, have tried to repeat it in all sauces: first you respect the institutions, which cannot be considered good and valid only if you are governed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are not armchairs; they are our institutions! You must respect them if you want to live in them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] New humanism means putting women back into the center. The issue of gender equality was raised as one of the priorities of this Government and you, Mr Conte, stressed your commitment to equal pay and support for motherhood. [[Comments of Senator Pucciarelli]] This is the starting point for a new season of women's rights and freedoms, which really looks back on those retrograde ideas that the League has tried to impose in these fourteen months and that makes sexist insults forget to women who make progress showing that they have talent and skills. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Our embrace goes to Teresa, Paola and all the women who have been the subject of ridicule and violence on social media. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The fight against denatality is combated by policies that encourage women's work, by soft tax regimes, by measures for reconciliation and by equal pay. Birth zero is certainly not a matter of keeping women at home or with a piece of land for the third child or making it more difficult and complicated to choose to separate. We no longer want to see the Billon bill in the offices of the Justice Commission! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Humanism, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is a future and the future is sustainable if it is also based on that green economy that you said you wanted to put at the heart of the political agenda. And the green economy is transversal, it doesn't just concern the environment and we need to forcefully enhance this transversality everywhere and I would say starting from the school. I really believe that a government like this must necessarily invest in school, teachers, students, because the school is the place where the future is built and where the identity of a country is drawn ( [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; It is the place that contributes decisively to the development of the person and human capital and we should be able to affirm the substantive universality of the right to education of every citizen, regardless of the context to which they belong. It is a human and civil right and therefore it is to be assured to everyone. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, let us let Mr Malpezzi finish, who has still run out of time and which I would like to draw to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u106	MALPEZZI (PD). From the school begins Minister Fioramonti, who will be on Monday at the inauguration of the school year in L'Aquila, together with President Mattarella. It is the beginning of the school year and this government has chosen to start it from one of the earthquake zones. [[Senator Saponara's comments.]] We are not just talking about earthquakes: let us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Let's do it, let's not just go there, but we work even more actively. I'd like to make the last line in conclusion. I come from Milan and in the false narration of how this Government has been described it has been said that it is not a Northern Executive. I would like to remind you that those who sell themselves for the defence of the North in recent months have done nothing but isolate them from the rest of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He did not help entrepreneurs and he did everything to make that autonomy, which was to be an opportunity for all the regions and not only for the northern ones, turn into a North war against the South. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I will finish with just one sentence. We risked that this was the year of man alone in command, of populisms, of rupture; instead it must be - I say this to my colleagues of majority - the year of collaboration, of the team, of the year of Parliament, of reconciliation. We for our part will be serious and committed. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u107	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u108	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, today the Senate and you, Senators of the 5 Stars, the PD and the LEU, are starting - perhaps not with sufficient awareness - at an unprecedented stage in this legislature and in Italian politics; a phase characterized by morbid attachment to power, which arrives - I dare say - to the extreme, until you are denied serious accusations of incompetence and danger to democracy that you have moved to each other in recent years. 14.29 p.m. (Following RONZULLI). With your vote you give confidence to a government that is a clear oxymoron, an eloquent contradiction, taking back commitments made publicly, promises and good intentions that remain confined to videos on social networks, which are invaded and depositaries to perpetualm rei memoriam of posterity. Today the government of fear is born, which is afraid to go to the vote and which also scares many citizens, workers, taxpayers, entrepreneurs of the North of the South. Therefore force the majority of the country to the opposition and imposing to the Italians the dictatorship of minorities, united only by the terror of the ballot boxes [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This government is the union of two components that have been drawn from failed governmental experiences that have impoverished the country and have not been able to give concrete answers to the citizens. Today is born yet another government not voted by the citizens: I remember that the last vote was that of Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A wish book has been presented without priority and without economic cover and a program never validated by voters. We are before a government born with only one reason: to go to power to defeat the only true enemy, the center-right. It is a pity that voters for two and a half years have always and unequivocally continued to choose the center-right. However, if you occasionally miss your memory, we do not and then remember what those who sit together with the Government today said only fourteen months ago that Giuseppe Conte was a fake news (I'm not so rude, Mr. President of the Council, don't worry, I'm not the author), words and music of the simple Senator Matteo Renzi. From the denunciation of the fake news to their promotion and diffusion to an even wider audience, as you can see, it is a moment. Renzi himself - who is not present in the Chamber - has a certain custom with fake news, not having left politics as he had promised, never having abandoned the aims on the Democratic Party secretariat as he had promised and, not least, not having refused the alliance with the triggers as he had promised. Now, before these repeated contradictions of politics, increasingly transformist and chameleontic, Italians see certified the fact that their vote no longer counts anything. Worse than this ruthless operation is only the tough face of those who for years described the present ally as absolute evil: the Democratic Party was represented as the capital Mafia, as the octopus, as the party of bankers and bankers, as the party of Bibbiano: the symbol of the partycracy cause of all evil to be destroyed and countered in all ways. Today, however, the Democratic Party returns to the government of this country thanks to its most fierce detractors: the 5 Stars. Thanks to the 5 Stars, the Democratic Party will manage the Italian economy, relations with the European Union, even our security in Italy and in the world, but where it failed until a year and a half ago it will probably again fail. This is not a government project but a mess of which, like every time, the Italians will pay the consequences. Luigi Di Maio said that the right and left no longer exist, but here we are no longer at the post-ideological and not even at the overcoming of the sides. Here today we are even at the post-idea: where, then, is the so much-declaimed love for the country? The same minister Di Maio has abandoned the business crises still open and unsolved and the many dossiers without giving answers to Alitalia, to Motorways and on 5G to escape around the world. But we, as we remember, remember the photos with the mocking smirk of order next to the yellow vests, known for having set France on fire, and the car trips to Strasbourg and Brussels to challenge the European institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I was, moreover, little grounded listening to President Conte's beautiful tale about the prodigious new season of reforms that looks so much like the beautiful year he had promised us. However, the former President of the Council was always you, Professor attorney Giuseppe Conte, expression pentastellate (let's remember him), so-called impartial referee of the two members of the Government, but I probably dreamed or maybe it was someone else, his alter ego. Among the countless proclamations of his new agenda Count has promised that he will work for the total cancellation - I repeat, gentlemen, total - of the line of kindergartens. I am personally very happy as President of the Childhood Commission and I would also like to say 'finally'. However, it is natural to wonder why he did not have such a grandeur before, considered the painful state in which the services for early childhood in Italy, unable to guarantee 10 million Italian children the sacrosanct access to kindergartens. More than the things he said, I'm worried about what he didn't say, President Conte. Where has the reform of the trusts ended, which only a few weeks ago was considered a priority by your party? Why didn't you explain that the tax expenditure cut you talked about yesterday will practically result in an increase in taxes on the middle class? If it cuts tax breaks, which are certainly not provided for the rich, families will find themselves forced to pay more: it is an elementary equation. But very soon we will return to vote in many regional challenges, where the center of the right will win confirming what the popular will is, the one you are betraying. We at Forza Italia will not do discounts, we will ensure that you do not make the mistakes of all time, taxing the poor people who work to finance welfare and inefficiencies. We will not allow you to let our beautiful Italy invade and lower your guard on security. We will not allow you to continue on the path of degrowth, to sell family jewelry, such as ports to the Chinese, and to manage contracts and concessions as if they were your property. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to conclude by referring to three things that outline your political action to perfection. I give you and I give you a padlock, which replaces the opening with which you had to open the institutions, while you have ensnared and armored inside. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We then have tuna, because appetite comes by eating and in this case also the appetite for power. We have glue, which holds you firmly in your armchairs and is the true common denominator of this pot pourri of majority. And finally the scotch, which is the only instrument, so fragile, that it holds these two parties and this majority together. (The senator shows the objects cited.) But we all know that fragile things eventually break. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u109	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u110	Dear President of the Council, I firmly believe that you would have been perfect as the protagonist of Pirandello's novel "One," no one and a hundred thousand" because I am absolutely convinced that you, like Mr Moscarda, in front of the mirror every day are attacked by a hundred thousand questions. You'll be wondering, who am I? What do I believe in? What do I think? What are my values and principles? Which way do I stand today? You see, I'm sure you're not on the Italian side, since your government is born with the blessing of Merkel and Macron. But, you see, I don't even need, President Conte, to use my words to prove it; just use your own words. I'll take it back to March 24, 2019, when you said: I personally said: I don't have the prospect of working for a new government experience. My experience as a government will end with this. You are here today, Mr President, and you are about to ask for confidence in your new government. But I want to remind you of even more recent times. We shall now proceed to 19 July, with a statement from you which is a response today. You said: That I can go to Parliament to seek an alternative majority, when it is quite clear that I am going to Parliament for transparency towards the citizens and respect for the institutions, is pure fantasy. So she answered the reporters. Yet today you are here, President Count, to ask in this Senate of the Republic for confidence for your Count-A, with a new majority. Then I'd like to know what the Count of Day is. Then I wonder, and out of this Palace many wonder, where is its credibility, where is its transparency, where has ended the respect of the citizens and, above all, which Conte will touch us tomorrow. But yours, President, is a very contagious syndrome and Minister Di Maio has managed to overcome it. On the other hand, it was your political pygmalion, although lately - perhaps I misunderstood - you have distanced yourself from it. Maio's words were: How do you agree with a guy like Renzi, who made politics a teleshopping? He defined his allies, the Democratic Party, as the Biblical party or - worse he should feel - he said that Renzi is not a statesman, but is a political killer. These are the words of your Minister after the reform of the labour market. Today, however, I would like you to answer a question. Are you aware that you are President of the Council and that Minister Di Maio is Minister of Foreign Affairs (like Alfano, and I add nothing else) by decision and grace received from Matteo Renzi, who you know has the golden share of your Government? I'll give you a prediction: it'll be the one who decides when to send you home. Mr. Count, I give you an unsolicited advice: if you want to stay in your armchairs, consider it, treat it properly, but above all tune in to the Leopolda. How do you feel, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, who also betrayed Gianroberto Casaleggio, who can no longer speak, but who in a television interview said: if the 5 Stars had to make an agreement with the Democratic Party, would I leave the Movement? Memory is very important to us human beings, but since memory is bad for you... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to remind you of the famous streaming between Beppe Grillo and Matteo Renzi, in which your founder stated that Renzi was not credible, because he was with rotten power, because you of the 5 Stars were born to change him and advised Renzi - hear! - not to go to the government without going through the elections. Then I ask you: can you tell us who you are and what you have become? To stay at the Pirandellian reference, I have the answer: you are all characters looking for author. Do you at least remember that the votes you took and that allow you to sit there were given by the Italians on opposite and alternative programs compared to the Democratic Party, your ally? So it was good for Giorgia Meloni to remind you of who you are: thieves of democracy and con men. To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Italians have a clear understanding of what and why this Government is born, which is certainly not in favour of the Italians, but is against their will and that your programme does not have 29 points, but only one: not voting. Because you, too, have only one certainty: if you were to go to the polls, the Italians would send you home. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u111	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u112	Welcome back, President Count. Mr President, in the 2018 general election, the Movimento 5 Stars received 32% of the votes. Given the impossibility of forming a government on our own, we immediately put our programme and our themes at the heart of the political debate. Today as then and for both parties - we cannot deny this - it is not easy to digest a government made up of such different political forces, but we did so in 2018 and it is necessary, in respect of the citizens who are waiting for the measures in their favour, to do so today. Mr President, these days there is so much talk of discontinuity and I am pleased to hear your words: 'We want to turn away the noise of useless proclamations and warlike and robotic statements'. I therefore call on all my colleagues not to raise any controversy in the newspapers, with divisive and misleading statements as of now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will also have to guarantee this new way of doing politics. In 2013, as soon as we entered these Palazzi, our request was to have a policy that would put the citizen at the centre and not personal interests. I heard Mr Zanda mention the Rousseau platform. You see, every parliamentary group uses different tools to probe the thinking and the will of its voters: the PD voted the mandate to Zingaretti during its management; we gave the mandate to the entire Movimento 5 Star Group to form a Government with the PD led by President Conte with a very precise program. For us, voting must not be a blank proxy, but a civic responsibility for everyone, elected and elected. It's participation. It is time to abandon the slogans and move on to a policy of action. We've got a lot to do. Epochal challenges await us in Italy and Europe: from environmental protection to the future of young people 2050. From the 1980s onwards, Italy has not been able to meet the challenges that globalisation and new technologies have launched. We can't afford not to catch them today. We need an efficient and technological public administration that becomes the driving force of the country. We must invest in school, in research, in health care, in the family. My colleague Tiziana Drago taught me that children are not a cost, but an investment, and that is very true. What is the healthiest investment if not the generational future of Italy? Welcome, then, to a tax reform: pay everyone to pay less. It is necessary to reorder the system of tax concessions, always safeguarding the important social and redistributive function. An increasingly simplified and rewarding system is needed: the polluter pays. We need to focus even more on renewable energy; we can no longer wait. We're in a scary delay. Another challenge awaits us is the European Union. Our children, including through Erasmus programmes, have developed European citizenship. Why not offer him a true united Europe? President Mattarella also reiterated that the necessary review of the rules of the Stability Pact can contribute to a new phase by relaunching investment in infrastructure, networks, innovation, education and research. We cannot have a united Europe if the citizens of the Member States feel so different from each other. We need expansive economic policies that protect the citizen and the environment. I agree with Mr Bagnai when he says that it is necessary to involve Parliament in relations with Europe. I trust, in fact, in the continuation of the path started by implementing the ascending phase established by law n. 234 of 2012. With my esteem for the President and the work I have done over the last 16 months, I am sure we will move on. We have to think of Italian companies, especially the smallest ones, who struggle so hard to stay afloat: they need a banking system and credit that helps them, that makes them grow. They are the backbone of Italy and can, through the new commercial channels, become the economic engine of Europe. It is necessary to relaunch the country with a wide-ranging, courageous, visionary and acute project. We must have a strategic development policy: we cannot think only of next year, but we must set ourselves goals which we look at in 2050, setting a timetable, step by step. We didn't back out in 2018 and we won't do it today either. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u113	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u114	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the long presence in the Houses allows me the privilege of speaking to you without periphrase, telling all my colleagues exactly what I think. The first truth is that the yellow-red majority would never have been possible without the miracle of Salvini, who asking full powers to the Italians and demanding immediately after, on 20 August, the calendarization of the motion of distrust, has accelerated the approach of two political forces until yesterday antagonists and perhaps even something more. Subsequently, in repeating to Mr Di Maio the offer of the Presidency of the Council, he removed all credibility from the demands reiterated yesterday in the streets, simply showing a late rethinking of what appears to have been an unprecedented move of political self-harm. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] Colleagues, the elections are every five years and the President of the Republic, not according to the Constitution, but also according to common sense (so not only according to the Constitution), is required not to read the polls or to follow the various moods of public opinion, but to preserve the continuity of the legislature, if there are possible majorities. Movimento 5 Stars and League had campaigned against each other, no more or less as Movimento 5 Stars and Democratic Party and - I add - LEU. There is even more: every conspiracy and injury to the people's will is only political propaganda, understandable for sure, because we all go and have been in the square, but institutionally irrelevant. Then in this case the demiurgo is there, there are no plots; the demiurgo is there and has a name and a surname. This premise is out of respect for the truth. Let us turn to today and to the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council, who has had interesting ideas for me. I am thinking of the demographic issue and the measure announced on the gratuitousness of kindergartens, but in particular I am thinking of two points: Atlanticism and Europeanism. Europeanism regains its dignity in the classrooms of the Italian Parliament: this is our tradition, these are our roots and this is our inevitable future if we do not want to surrender ourselves to an irresponsible sovereignism that would only cause Italy trouble and - as happened in the last year - would make us completely irrelevant in Europe. The rest of the programme is a mixture, as always happens (I have seen about thirty governments), of good intentions and intentions that will all have to be verified in the light of the parliamentary path. Mr President, my prayer is, however, to avoid the rhetoric of anti-politics, which unfortunately has had the right to citizenship until now, starting with the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament: a measure which I am well aware of in the Government Agreement, but which I consider to be a typical expression of demagogy. However, experience tells us, ladies and gentlemen, that so many times the stupidest conditions are also those considered the most indispensable. However, this measure must be accompanied by a commitment to proportionality, which has been announced and which, in my opinion, is the protection of important constitutional principles. I would also like to address my colleagues from the 5 Stars: who would have thought that we would share this experience together? The first time we saw each other we looked at each other in doggy style and now we vote together. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Now don't have a jealousy crisis, because I don't think it would be appropriate. Also because betrayed women are always the worst... [[Ironic applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] .. even men, yes. I hope they understand well that one thing is the miraculous political promises and another is the harsh practice of everyday government. I share the critical points on social networks, an extraordinary instrument of our progress; but, colleagues, the democracy of the network does not exist: the only true democracy is that of the people. [[Ironic applause and comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I like these late conversions. [[Laughter.]] It is the youngest government in the Republic. Long live the government! But if there will be no professionalism, experience, the right ability to address very sensitive issues... BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). But you're here! CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). ...this figure will only be important for statistics. Mr President, I have publicly expressed, and I repeat to you in the Senate Assembly, my concerns for the future, which have not diminished in these days. I hope I am wrong and in that case I will be the first to rejoice for the overall benefit that the country will gain from it. I would like to draw your attention, for example, to the issue of immigration. I very much liked the reference to that great personality that was Giuseppe Saragat and to the concept of the human face of democracy; this is what we want: a human management in respect of legality. But beware: if the politics of the closed ports will correspond, as the extreme left invokes, the opposite politics, that is that of the open ports, we will all make the greatest gift that the former minister Salvini can wish. The government's orientation is to share responsibilities with Europe. Certainly the excellent choice of Gentiloni Silveri will help us, but I do not make any illusions, because with the previous governments, from Letta to Renzi, to the same Gentiloni Silveri, while being in tune with the European authorities, we have repeatedly complained that we have been left alone by our partners. Finally, Mr President, it is essentially a political issue. Many believe that the mission of this Executive should be the creation of a new entity, a new party, determined by the convergence of the forces participating in the Government. I do not hope for this outcome and it is all too obvious that in this case centrists and moderates will not be able to be part of this entity and will have the responsibility to create a container that does not exist today and that is necessary for Europe and for Italy. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would ask you to consider my vote of confidence consistent with what my Parent Company has said to the President of the Republic and also to you, as an investment of confidence, which I hope will be paid for by the work of the Commission. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u115	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u116	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened very carefully to your speech to the House, which, after all, was the basis for the general discussion of this day in the Senate. I think there are basically two ways to stay inside this new phase on the level of behavior and style. The first way is to embrace the rhetoric of change, of the epochal turning point and make an operation which, you see, President of the Council, we should avoid, which consists in the removal of what has happened in recent months. The fact that political forces are putting together today - and we must not hide it - that until yesterday and the day before yesterday they had, to use a euphemism, some element of friction, if not of total contrast, is something that we must not remove. Just as we don't have to remove his previous experience, because we would hurt ourselves. There is, however, another way, an alternative to this, to face the new phase. And that's the way I think you've decided to go. If that were the case, he would have our support. It is the path of some sort of institutional sobriety, certainly accompanied by the ambition of a programme (to which I will now arrive, in these few minutes of intervention) that you have illustrated. An institutional sobriety, however, is a healthy reference to the values of the Constitution. It is the need, which we in Liberi and Equal share, to give life to a new phase of serenity, constitutional and democratic, which was the reason that made us decide, after a reflection, to live this new phase with courage. The tones we have heard, even in this debate, are linked to what is behind us, to this summer lived dangerously, but which, alas, already foreshadow the model of opposition with which we will have to measure ourselves. I have listened to some colleagues from the League, to whom I have a lot of respect, colleagues from the present minority, to talk about the Biblical party. They have been talking about the Biblical party since this morning. I don't know exactly what the Biblical party is, but I know what Pillon's party is, which would have produced even worse ugliness than the Bible's, to be verified. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD. Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you! It's shameful! LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). I'm talking politics. I'm talking about what could have happened, but luckily, it didn't happen. [[Senator Ripamonti's comments.]] Mr President, I will stop but then I have to catch up! I say this to my colleagues in the League because then your political leader, who is responsible for all this, must intervene! I say this, Mr President and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because this healthy return to the principles of the Constitution is something that will leave a positive mark in the coming generations, and also in the next generations of parliamentarians. In this way, we have established a very simple principle, namely that, if a crisis occurs in Parliament, Parliament is the natural place in which that crisis is to be consumed and must find a solution. And there is no political leader, not even the one who gets the greatest consensus, who can distort this principle. Of course, President Conte, all this has to do with a precondition of government action: if Constitution must be, what Constitution it is. If, in fact, we have to put this country back on the tracks of the Constitution, perhaps we should do an operation, about the things to do, that has never succeeded to any other government, even if someone has tried: to bring the formal Constitution as close as possible to the material one. I have listened to very welcome statements in your speech. Perhaps we are building a framework that must be fully filled with content, in the concrete action of the Government and this new phase that opens. We no longer have to talk generically about work, but we have to go back to talking about the dignity of workers and workers. We need to go back to talking about the great challenges of work, including the one that has to do with an issue on which we are immediately measuring ourselves, that is, how people, workers, should be freed of working time because of the processes of automation and technological innovation. We need to talk about work before other non-national bodies, such as the European Court of Justice, even talk about it, by providing - and I say this with great sympathy to my fellow Members who have sat next to me - some adjustments that we ourselves have made: for example, by restoring, in a contemporary, modern, efficient way, some protection against illegal dismissals. Returning to the Constitution, Mr President, means, yes, in the next budget law, talking about the tax wedge and how to reduce taxes. But there is a principle, yes constitutional, which is called fiscal progressivity. To the deception of flat tax we must impose this principle, which means one very simple thing: those who have more, must and can give more, doing a great deal of distribution of opportunities and income. That's what we should talk about. We should talk - someone said so - about the greatest investment in the history of the Republic, which we might need: the one on public school. Public health and public school: I think these should be the pillars on which our initiative must be based. I would very much like us, not only in the media, to escape politically and move away from the label that someone has stuck to us, of the 'Government Ursula', not because we should not celebrate today, for example, the appointment of President Gentiloni Silveri as European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, but because if we give the sense of putting together forces that lose a principle of change and have only the defence of the status quo at heart - I am talking about Europe - maybe our operation will not succeed. In this sense, in Europe we must not ask - here I see Ministers who will deal with it directly - for adjustments to the margin, but for a radical change in the installation of that project. I shall conclude by saying - as the previous speaker reminded me - that there will be a delicate passage, that of the reform on the reduction of the number of Members. I am not opposed to the idea that one can imagine a revisiting of the functions of Chamber and Senate, even in the sign of a reduction in the number of parliamentarians. But there is one thing I am asking you, Mr Conte, if it is to be the President of this new majority. I allow myself to use this tone and I say it with all due respect. The opposition does what it wants, but you make a commitment to prevent even one member of the majority from using expressions... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] When we talk about ourselves and when we speak to the representatives of the institutions and of Parliament, we must address ourselves as guardians of popular sovereignty. You can't tell us we're armchairs. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes),]] because here there is a subject of public debate hygiene and the language to be used. The authority and autonomy of this institution are at stake. It is as important as the content of those reforms, and many of the evils that have arisen at this political stage are due to the fact that we have also given in this field to a populist rhetoric that we do not need. That is why we are going to vote in favour of trust. We will not be passive spectators; we will have a role, not uncritical, but very active in this Government, because we also want this bet to succeed. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u117	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u118	Mr President, I was a little stunned, because taking economic lessons from the epigonals of Russian communism really seemed to me an excess. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] On the other hand, he also defended Bibbiano, so everything can be done about it. Instead, I want to refer to the words of President Casini, whom I have known - alas - for a long time (alas for me, not for him of course). President Casini has tried to argue that the interpretation given by President Mattarella - legitimately, I want to say now - of the Constitution, that is to say to give birth to a government because there were numbers in Parliament, was the only one. In fact, we know, Casini knows very well and I imagine President Conte knows that more than I have studied law (or perhaps less than me for reasons of age, only for that, President), that is not true: there is another possible constitutional option. Why do I turn to Casini? Because the first to indicate as a priority the other constitutional option was a Christian Democrat, a Father of the Constitution, Professor Mortati, who in the constituent Assembly said, almost verbally or abbreviated, that the Head of State is entrusted with the superintendence of the activity of the constitutional bodies not to direct it in one sense or another, but, through the institution of early dissolution, to carry out a work of reporting any serious disharmonies that could be found with respect to the feeling or the requirements expressed by the people when there are such elements - be careful - to make it necessary or even only appropriate. I have no reason to say that the President of the Republic had to accept this option, but woe to believe that he was obliged to give life to this Government. That is why I trust that President Mattarella, whose intelligence and serenity I recognize, although with a political vision - alas - far from mine, may not say to rethink, but to re-evaluate his position at the first difficulties that this Government, son of love for the chair, will inevitably manifest in the coming weeks. Thank you, Mr Mattarella, if you wish to reconsider, when you consider it appropriate, your position not to dissolve this Parliament. You see, if the interpretation were the other, that of the constitutionalists of begging that we have seen these days (I don't speak of Casini), then for the early dissolution it would take...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u119	President La Russa, it would be better to avoid references to President Mattarella, as you know.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u120	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). But why? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is not generally the case in this House. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I beg to differ, if you're as respectful as I was. President Mattarella is one of the actors in this crisis and one cannot help but take note of it in the most respectful way possible, but I certainly cannot cancel it. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Anyway, I don't talk about it anymore. I said that, otherwise, the Constitution would provide for the dissolution of the Chambers to require the vote of Parliament. This is not really necessary because Parliament can be dissolved even when there is a majority opposed to dissolution, which wants to continue with any government of the legislature. President Conte, last night I stumbled upon the memory of an old movie entitled "Good Bye, Lenin!" (I don't know if she or someone saw it); it tells a story that began in 1989, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the German Democratic Republic, when a fervent communist woman was struck by a heart attack and entered into a coma at the sight of her son beaten by the Communist secret police and wakes up after eight months, not imagining that in the meantime the wall had fallen and communism had collapsed, swept away with his forty years of torture, oppression, poverty and dictatorship. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I know you're sorry to hear this, but that was communism. There's nothing I can do about it. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] You're protesting. I knew it. In the film, the children, not to disturb the mother, hide what had happened and make her believe that there is still communism. Here, I imagined a militant of the Movimento 5 Stars who after not eight months of coma, but a single month of travel abroad, goes back and, yesterday, arrives in front of the Chamber of Deputies, finds the door closed (for work, for charity) and sees a square crying out against those who have enraged themselves inside and who defends the caste. He sees a square that says, in a civil, composed and democratic way, that wants to regain the power to decide against those who, unnaturally, insist on pretending that there is a logic in a government of opposites. Well, this poor man of the 5 Stars would have been stunned to discover that in the square there was no Grillo but there was the Meloni, there was Salvini, unfortunately there was no Forza Italia (although Carfagna said it was wrong not to be there and I hope there could be on the next occasions), there was a whole world that simply wanted to be able to express its opinion and instead, poor, looking for its own, would find them ensnared together with Renzi, what they had told him - before going abroad and missing a month - that was the enemy and instead he became the holy protector. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not feel at all sorry for you, Mr Conte, and I do not agree with the simple chorus that you have changed from one month to the next. Not only her: everyone changed. The only one who hasn't changed is poor Toninelli, who you took out washing your conscience and unloading on him all the faults that, on the other hand, were to be distributed among all those responsible for the 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You wouldn't have expected my solidarity with Toninelli. I sincerely believe that one cannot imagine a government that is born on these premises. I guess the holy protector Renzi, to the poor guy who came back after a month, would have made a bad impression. But I could do the whole operation backwards. I imagine, on the contrary, a man from the PD who arrives and finds himself with the 5 Stars. I don't have the time otherwise I could make the same speech backwards. But then they tell them, to each other, that we will now be in touch with Gentiloni in Europe. Gentiloni will be very kind in Europe, more kind than he will be nobody, a Gentiloni kind was just what we lacked in Europe. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You have chosen the man with the right name - it's a program, it's already a program - if you just applaud the powerful. If you've become the ones with enough pats on the shoulders of Merkel, Macron, the big finance, the big newspapers, the living rooms, you're still there in the majority. You're mostly in these circles. Then have a seat.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u121	Senator La Russa, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u122	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). We have seen a bad start: the deletion of Facebook pages of movements that have nothing to do with us, but when you start to shut someone's mouth is the sign of a bad, bad start, and I say it forcefully. [[Comments of Senator Verducci]] I believe that you are the Government of deception but, as Lincoln said, you can deceive someone forever, many for a short time but you can't fool everyone forever. You will not deceive the Italian people forever. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u123	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u124	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we appreciate the fact that you have indicated in your report not the contents of a contract but the common ideas and objectives on which a government is set up that serves and will serve the country, which is born for this reason, to serve the country. We will not be in the government with the aim of taking power, of taking all power, even though I feel that those who say these things give us lessons in democracy. We will not go to the government to feed a permanent electoral campaign that stirs up the problems of Italians rather than solve them. The government is supported by certainly different forces that accept together the challenge of reforms and give answers to the country. None of us in the coming years, as has happened in recent months, will focus on when it is better to pull the plug in order to get more consensus thinking only of their own party or their own personal power. We will look for solutions to the problems together. The phase in which someone thought to be in the government by doing majority and opposition together is over; it must be over. He's already done too much damage to the country. We will stay with the Government to give concrete answers to Italians and not to deafen them with controversy. I do not speak on individual issues; others have already done so and then my Parent Group will do so in an explanation of vote. We will have time and way in the parliamentary work to deepen them, but I want to emphasize the three things, which I most appreciated in his speech, which define and qualify the path that we have chosen together and which tell, more than any other question, the reasons that make us say that this is and must be a turning government, in discontinuity with the previous one. First of all, the tone and substance of his speech close the door to a dangerous idea that tends to reduce democracy to a direct relationship between the leader and the people, which delegitimizes Parliament and the guarantee institutions and calls into question the autonomy of powers. You have already taken an important step by pretending to parliamentariansize the crisis and to this end it adds the will to enhance the work of the Chambers, the recognition of the important and necessary role for the national unity of the Head of State and the need not to risk that the reduction of parliamentarians translates into a less representative and weight of Parliament. Hence the need for further reform. Secondly, we really shared the call to the future of the country and people. We need a government that does not look only at today, at the contingent; it will not and must not be a government that, in order to give satisfaction to particular interests, will take away resources from young people, perhaps harming their future social security or increasing public debt. Putting the environmental issue at the centre, that of sustainable development that must annoy every initiative of the Government in order to build the conditions to support the innovation and the circular economy, means this: it means to take care of the future; to raise the alarm that climate change produces in a concrete and worrying way; it means to think of the future, re-launch industry 4.0 and also the attention to families and concrete measures such as the cancellation of the lines for the kindergartens. Above all, it means thinking of the future of this country by thinking of Europe as an essential element, of a Europe that, of course, needs to be changed, but that without us it is not possible and we without Europe would not have a future. Thirdly, we need new attention to assert the principles of legality. No one has mentioned it, but to say that we want to fight tax evasion after the previous government means to say enough to the pardons and that the rules are respected [[Applause from the PD Group]] It means closing with the thesis that we have heard too many times from the former Vice Premier, according to which one can tolerate the non-respect of the rules or the lawlessness if this serves to speed up the works or to bring some extra money into the coffers of the State. There must be no doubt about this: for this Government, respect for legality is a necessary condition for reforming the country, fighting mafias and corruption and relaunching our economy. On this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are putting the fight against mafias as a priority. Salvini's two security decrees talk about everything (parking squatters, policemen, of course immigrants), but there is nothing against those who save people at sea, but there is nothing to fight the mafia: it is a wrong message that is given to the country and that must be overturned. It is up to us to be clear that the greatest danger this country faces is the mafias, who have settled on the territories also in the North and who pollute our economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am sure that the new government will be able to give clear signs of discontinuity on this. I shall conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by appreciating the tone and style of your speech, which is essential and which must involve all of us. This country doesn't need, it can no longer hold people's heads who show muscles and rosaries; it doesn't need a deafening policy that screams by shaking problems rather than solving them, that delegitimizes anyone who disagrees. It is necessary to restore credibility to politics and institutions, for what those who govern can do in practice for the Italians. Good work, it will be hard, but you will see, Mr President-in-Office, that we will succeed. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u125	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u126	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u127	Note on the sidelines: if you don't know things, sometimes it's better to avoid talking about them. In the security decrees there is a doubling of the staff and offices of the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated to organized crime; therefore, Senator Mirabelli, if he rereads them and will make better figure next time [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). In fact, it's not a fight against the mob. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I do not envy you, President Conte-Monti, nor do I envy so many colleagues I have heard this afternoon. You can now tell when one has the speech that comes from inside, from the head, from the heart and from the soul and when he has to read a written homework, which he doesn't believe either. You have passed from revolution to the vote of Casini, Monti and Renzi, with all respect [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Beginning from August 7th, quoting words not mine and waiting for the entry of the friend and colleague of the same name: Giuseppe Conte is simply embarrassing. On August 7, 2019, a person who today will vote for her trust said so. I'm calling my daughter tonight to ask her how it went at school, I'm calling my son to ask her if she's finished her English homework, since she starts school on Thursday, but I'm going to talk to my kids with my head up, with one less chair but with so much more dignity, and that's something I would never change. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u128	Colleagues, I remember you weren't photographed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u129	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Aristotle said that dignity is not to possess honors, but to deserve them. I leave it to you to judge whether what you are approving is an operation of truth, loyalty, justice, dignity and conscience. Millions of Italians think that's not the case. I repeat that today I do not envy her: an armchair daughter of disloyalty, betrayal, personal interest may be the most important in the world, but I would never be able to occupy her for a quarter of an hour. I leave you your chair, I keep my honor and the affection of millions of Italians [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Moreover, we have also discovered the allergy from him and from a certain left, to the people, to the square, as if it is now a crime to go to the square. I understand someone's gotten used to other squares. Yesterday in the square there were people with exposed faces, with bare hands, smiling, without firecrackers, without batons; yesterday the police and the policemen were smiling in their home. Get used to so many squares like this: you are a minority in the country. Thanks to a palace game you may be a majority to save the armchairs, here among the red seats, but you are a minority in the country and also within your own parties. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Everyone understood that this is a government based on the division of armchairs and on the fear evoked by many: here the only fear that is now clear to everyone, regardless of political ideas, is to return to the vote and to be left at home by the Italians and to have to start doing a job again, admitted and not allowed that there is a job to do at home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's ugly to live with this fear, it's ugly. But we respond to this fear and hatred, I repeat, with a smile, loving our enemies and our opponents, working also for them, because you can run away for a few weeks or for a few months, but you cannot run forever. There are also regional elections ahead: there are 30 million Italians who will be lucky enough to vote from here to the next few months in Umbria, Emilia Romagna, Calabria, Marche, Tuscany, Puglia, Campania, Liguria, Veneto. Unless you invent something, liberation from the Democratic Party in these regions can become a reality in the coming months. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] For us, it never remains with the PD, never with the PD, never with the PD, never with the PD, never with the PD, never with the PD, look what strange people we are. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Speaking of programs, I read that someone wants to go back to 100, someone wants to let her die, someone wants to strengthen her. The flat tax has been cancelled and eliminated from the horizon, while until last month it was fundamental; the security decrees are then taken back. Well, if anyone thinks to return to the Fornero law and open ports to make a spite to Salvini, first of all does not make a spite to Salvini, but damages millions of Italians, beyond the fact that we will make a healthy, robust and honest opposition and we will keep you here day and night, because we do not return to the Fornero law, to open ports and to the business of illegal immigration as far as we are competent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] From all the speeches I heard today, I realized that the important thing was to stop the League. In life, however, it is a matter of priority: for you the important thing is to stop the League, for us it is to restart Italy and I am convinced that, when the Italians return to vote, because sooner or later they will return to vote, this will come. Speaking of priorities, I have read that today there will be an urgent meeting on the problem most felt by the Italians: there is not a day that I do not walk on the street or have the e-mail box full of questions about the new electoral law, a fundamental theme for the life of the Republic on which, as I said, already this afternoon there will be a meeting between the Democratic Party, Movimento 5 Stars and LEU: the new proportional electoral law to ensure for life the Inciucio and the games of Palazzo in Parliament. If you go ahead on this issue, we will collect signatures so that Italians can decide that to govern the country is who takes an extra vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have returned thirty years: the new electoral law. We're going back to the Pentapartito. The day of trust you find yourself talking about the electoral law. I don't envy you at all. We absolutely move forward on the issues without ever being afraid to confront the voters: it seems that it is out of fashion and out of place to ask the opinion of our dancers, our employers. We are civil servants, you are public employees; we are all privileged and we should confront our employers and those who are afraid of popular judgment means that they have a dirty conscience, because those who are afraid of the vote of the Italians mean that they think in conscience that they do not deserve the vote of the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So if there's someone in here today who's uncomfortable, Mr. Count, it's you, let me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You are a President, with all affection, for all seasons, for all armchairs and for all majorities, perhaps you will be next with Forza Italia or I do not know who, perhaps with the Communist Refoundation, with those who are not present today in Parliament, with the Martians, with the Terraplattists and with those who believe that man has never arrived on the moon; I am no more surprised at anything. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] It was not a criticism of you, friends of Forza Italia; it is a criticism of a President of the Council who had said that he would return to his profession and that instead he is there, nailed to the chair like the old mummies of the First Republic. There, there, there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Dignity! Dignity! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have different ideas, then we will judge from the facts and the Italians will judge from the facts. In our future the family is at the center. I do not understand all this nervousness, when, theoretically, the whole of Parliament, everything, should be united in the strenuous defense of the weakest and those who have no voice. The whole Parliament should demand clarity about the Bible and what happened to the Bible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] You shouldn't bother anyone, least of all the President-in-Office of the Council. For us the family is in the center. Today there was the second request for arrest for the mayor of Bibbiano; we, unlike someone else (and then I will say so), do not condemn before the trial. This is also a difference of style, fundamental; it is a difference of culture and civilization. But for us the baby has a mom and a dad, comes to the world if there is a mom and a dad, is adopted if there is a mom and a dad and does not have to be taken from that mom and dad. This is the minimum of legal civilization and should not annoy anyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] There's so much in the chair contract and in your speech yesterday. But we will endeavour to offer other arguments; we will try to limit the damage that you may do, but we will bring proposals, of course. The health of our children also means war, but real war, not fake war, city by city, all kinds of drugs, which kills the soul and kills the body. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] And if anyone thinks they're bringing the drug-dealing state to this House, they're gonna have to go through our bodies, because the drug-dealing state is unworthy of a civilized country. Let's wait at the gate. We heard that Saviano genius last week say that cocaine should be legalized. Bring her a bill of this kind to this House and we will not let you go out to eat and sleep, which concerns cocaine or any other kind of drugs (since Saviano is the ideologist of many present). Speaking of justice, we have an idea of justice, President Conte Monti, which provides that Italians are decent, honest and innocent people until proven guilty. And on this I allow myself a reference to style, since you are very attentive to style and tones. On more than one occasion you judged your colleagues before there was not only a conviction, but also a trial; you were judged and condemned. We never allowed it, because in a civilized country and in a free country one is condemned when one is condemned by justice definitively, but first one is innocent. When there was controversy about his resume, his university chair, his advice, his potential conflicts of interest or his ghost studies with Professor Alpa, we never said a word. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] This is style difference, which doesn't just depend on the tie, the clutch or the hair well combed; the style is substance, not just appearance. On this we really hope that we do not go towards a judicial Republic. We have heard so much about democracy, the people, the Constitution and parliamentary law. We hope that mayors will be allowed to make mayors, entrepreneurs to make entrepreneurs and Italians to be honest Italians until proven otherwise [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , perhaps by proceeding to a different selection of the future ruling class of Italian justice; but there is no problem, because I see you discussing it between Bonafede, Orlando and Lotti. The reform is already done, there is no problem, the reform of justice is already beautiful that written. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Someone said that today is a festive day, because they have appointed the revolutionary Paolo Gentiloni as European Commissioner for Economic Affairs. I would wait to celebrate, because I think everything can be done by former Prime Minister Gentiloni but have an eye for Italy. Moreover, he is a controlled commissioner, because the Vice President with delegation to economic affairs will be the well-known falcon Dombrovskis. So if you've sold out Italian national interest in some chair, you've sold it out badly, because you've only been given one, dear President of the Council. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I give you my impression: they only gave you one. Then we will see and hope to be denied, because, unlike someone else, if something good comes, I will celebrate: I am not for the opposition of the much worse, the better. Surely the tones felt in this House towards the private, private school, private health and private enterprise do not do the good of the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] The country goes on if the public cooperates with the private, if there is subsidiarity and if there is cooperation. Some people continue to look in dogs and to legislate in dogs: by the way, President Conte-Monti, we have been waiting a year for the reform of the procurement code. I hope our children will still be under the age of 18 when they see her and anyway, if she can't make it, the next government will make it, since you can run away for some time, but you can't run forever. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are already working on the next government's programme, with patience, consistency, serenity and style. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Style... Can I tell you something today? Obviously I have been honored to serve the country as Minister and I count - I say this every day, meeting policemen, policemen or firemen on the street - to return to do so as soon as possible [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] , because when a woman or a man in uniform says to me "you will always be our Minister" to me is a huge emotion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am absolutely at the disposal of the new Minister of the Interior and, if he thinks so, he can count on me, in my little one, to ask for the open files, to ask how we approached the work, not to ask for advice, because he certainly won't need it. But you can count on my loyal cooperation, since those who take care of the security of the country must be outside the political polemic. [[Applause from Senator Rufa. Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] So I'm not gonna do what the others are gonna do. You rely on me, if I can be of use to you in carrying out your work and I hope that you do not bow to the left's "recipes," deleting the security decrees, because it would do the harm of the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He wouldn't spite Salvini, but he would hurt the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As far as Europe is concerned, it is not enough to wave its flag. We are in Europe, we will stay in Europe and my children will grow up in Europe. However, we want Europe to be different and we want Italy to be tall in Europe. Let me remind myself again with horror of the image - which is not good for Italy, its dignity and its future - of the man who whispered at Merkel. It's not an image that's good for a free country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] and the second industrial power of Europe. The man whispering at Merkel... Speaking of style, good taste, loyalty and betrayal. Oh, my God! Oh, my God! However, we are there, we will make fair opposition in Parliament and, of course, in the streets. Once the left grew in the squares, now someone evidently would like to close these squares. Take a look: you have "x" in front of you time to show the Italians what you are able to do, but leave - let me be allowed - with an original sin: your Government is born without a minimum of popular support, popular feeling and popular dignity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Zero! We're formally legal, but we're basically abusive. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In this case, the form is not substance, and perhaps in the next reforms, beyond an electoral law that I hope to be compactly majority, because those who take a vote in several governments, you can also rethink some formulas that put trust - perhaps not in this case, but in the past it has been so - according to the vote more or less than a senator for life, which I think is a figure absolutely outdated in the history of our Republic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You cannot leave in the hands of senators for life pro tempore, who come when they have time, the government that is born and that dies. No, with all due respect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is the caste of the caste of the caste: to the face! It's a nice sigh of relief not to have to climb on mirrors justifying confidence in such a crap. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It really is a sigh of relief. Then we'll be there. I don't know what you've traded what you're doing for. I don't say that much to the Democratic Party: where there is an armchair scent there is the Democratic Party, so this is not a problem. I think of it from the heart, then, for goodness sake, the streets are divided, and we are all adults and vaccinated. I turn to those who had entered this Palace to make the revolution: do you really think that with these fellow travelers you can make half a revolution? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's face it: do you think that those who voted Movimento 5 Stars voted for you to ask for the trust of Monti and Casini? Monti and Casini. But it's okay. I repeat, I say it in total serenity. Today the somewhat grievous faces and a little elusive and elusive strangely are not among the opposition benches, but between the benches of the future majority and the future government, and some ministers who probably aren't there... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. You're done! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Be patient for 30 more seconds, guys, 30 more seconds. I can tell you - and I address the Italians who are following us, with all respect for President Conte-Monti, very elegant and respectful of style - that we with smile and determination, with common sense... LAUS (PD). That's it! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry, wasn't that us? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to understand: we are the only anti-democratic who have put seven ministries on the table to have the Italian people vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We wanted the Italian people to vote, underestimating the hunger for armchairs. FARAONE (PD). You've occupied the Ministry! Senator Casini, finish, please. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I meant Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). And no, ma'am, Casinos don't! That's to say: have fun, have fun! We will return to rule this country for the sake of Italy and not for the sake of the chair. We'll leave those to you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With pride, because honor and dignity are worth more than a thousand seats. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thank you and good work. Long live Italy and live democracy in this country! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]] CHORO FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Dignity, dignity! VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bye-bye! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u130	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u131	Mr President, first of all I would like to reassure my friend Salvini: it has never been in the intention of Forza Italia to participate in the Governments of President Conte. I assure him and reassure him: we have a history; we have an identity and a location. President Conte - I must say - is skilled and trained as a lawyer. Among other things, he attended a prestigious study of which he owns a person whom I honor to be a great observer and admirer: our President of the National Forensic Council. It therefore has great legal training and respect for it. And it has also grown politically, because coining the union between a party that is born as an anti-system, the Movimento 5 stars, and a party that represents the system, such as the Democratic Party, has obviously been a skillful operation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Movimento 5 Stars was born as an anti-system movement, President of the Council, and in 2018 said "never alliances with anyone". Then he allied himself with the friends of the League. In 2019 he said "never alliances with the PD" and allied with the Democratic Party. You yourself have presented yourself as a lawyer for the people and today - I don't want it personally, but mine is a political joke - you appear as the lawyer for the Palace, because you are the son of an operation in the Palace. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] President, there is a way in the communication to erase what has been your thinking. We can delete a message on WhatsApp within seven minutes, but its turnaround belongs to the story and cannot be easily deleted as a message on WhatsApp. It will remain written in the annals of history that a President of the Council has remained so by changing half of the Government and half of the majority, by inserting a party that previously stood entirely against the opposition of its own Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am also referring to the past. Why will your government fall, President Conte? He will fall to the Senate just as we did so that, in 2006-2008, the Prodi Government would fall. His, President, is in fact a heterogeneous alliance, composed of parties that not only do not think the same way, but have different stories: the post-ideological something of the Movimento 5 Stars and the statism of the Democratic Party: this is history. A Democratic Party that will have to combine the alliance with the 5 Stars, but also with LEU (the rib from which it had detached) that will naturally cultivate policies of state aid and manoeuvres not expansive, but repressive, on behalf of our young people. I say this because when a government alliance is the result of an agreement only to manage power, then the government stalls. It is also in crisis because it presents a Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is currently talking to President Conte, while he does not listen to those who speak... [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Dear President of the Council, you will have to explain to the whole world that our position in Venezuela has not been clear because there was a Minister, who today is Minister for Foreign Affairs, who supported and supports Maduro. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You will have to explain to the President of the United States, Trump, who has done the dinner on you, that your Minister of Foreign Affairs is a friend of the Chinese; no problem, you will have to think about it. You will have to explain to President Macron that his Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone to shake hands with the yellow vests; then you will take care of it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Your Minister for Foreign Affairs is not only cumbersome, but he will play his game, because we have all seen an unupbuilding scenario for his majority and the cohesion of his Government and the management of a party that has seen seven Ministers of the Movimento 5 Stars gathered at the Farnesina to demonstrate, Minister Di Maio, that you were there with your Ministers and that you will wage war, because you stand on the side of the 5 Stars, certainly not in an organic political alliance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The state of health of your Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has deteriorated. His is not a political alliance, but a political adventure. I don't know what happens to this adventure. I don't want to express myself in a derogatory sense, but surely it will have a very perilous navigation, also because it will have to combine the positions of LEU with those of friend Casini: liberalism and attention to industry, businesses, those who work, grow and produce with the statism of Liberi and Equals, who want to activate the state and fiscal lever to solve the problems of Italians; two completely different philosophies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Prodi Government fell on this, with an economic minister, such as Padoa-Schioppa, who even claimed in 2007 that taxes, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were a beautiful thing. The Prodi Government has fallen because of its contradictions, because politics does not invent itself. President Conte, politics has its own rules. You can leave today, you will have the majority in the Senate, but gradually the erosion of your Government will be irreversible, because the rules of politics do not obey the will of someone's "poltronism" or the will to realize a government "against" someone, because when you make a government against someone weeps the democracy of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Governments make themselves "to" to realize, to help the country, are not holy alliances "against." That's not how it works. But at the same time it will have to counter internal distinctions with its majority. On justice, fellow members of the Democratic Party, you have voted with us so many measures against the Government, all of them, except those on divorce and class action, for the rest you have always voted with us. You have also voted with us against the famous law abolishing the prescription; an unconstitutional law, which violates Article 111 of the Constitution that you voted on and which concludes, in the last paragraph, that the law establishes the reasonable duration of the trial. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The law abolishing the prescription goes against this constitutional principle which you voted with us in 1999. So, Mr President, if you have the ability to respond to this remark, we would like to know what your intentions are on this rule; a rule that will be declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court and you know it, because it is a jurist end. What will the Democratic Party do about this, after voting against it? Will you hold your nose and vote yes? Will he maintain the abolition of the prescription and determine the figure of the defendant as sentenced to life? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So you condemn people? With trials that will never end? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I say this because, Minister Di Maio and Minister Bonafede, the famous reform of your government, which was to take place within the year and so justified the abolition of the prescription, where is it? He's not here. Where is he? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You talk about reducing the number of MPs linked to the reform of the electoral law. Where is the electoral law? Will you reduce the number of Members in October? Do it. But where is the electoral law? He's not here. Therefore, if there is an interruption of the legislature you will have cut off the right of representation of some regions, because the current electoral law will not allow pieces of politics to be represented. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In 2001 and 2008 - the only cases, except for 2006 with Prodi - Berlusconi won the election by the will of the voters and had the strength, because he had a cohesive alliance, to present the program of the first hundred days and realized it by 80%. In 2001, Berlusconi approved the relaunch of Tremonti- bis, the abolition of the tax on inheritances and donations in the direct father-son lines, the rule "master in his own home," i.e. the simplification of internal work to make the economy grow. In 2008 the abolition of the tax on the first house, the resolution of the emergency waste in Naples, the taxing of overtime and the cutting of 7,000 unnecessary laws thanks to his friend Brunetta. Well, what are your 100 days? Will you tell us? We have taken the measures forward and approved them. You cannot propose them, Mr President, for a simple reason. Not because of his personal fault, but because his majority is unable to allow him to commit to a program in the first hundred days: this majority will prevent it from being carried out in the following months. You will fall into this branch of Parliament and Forza Italia will undertake to emphasize, to put its majority in difficulty, bringing to the Chamber measures that will break your majority, as we have done with the Prodi Government. We've done it, we'll do it again, and we'll do it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u132	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u133	Mr President, President of the Council, Ministre and Ministers, senators and senators, my speech today will focus on the importance of having a stable government for our country. It is essential to start from an indisputable point: the confidence that we will vote on today is oriented exclusively towards the development of the entire country and of all citizens, regardless of political belongings. Every time a new Government is formed in Italy and the relative trust is voted, it is said that this is a historical event for the country and it is hoped that the same will last for five years, but history denies this perspective. From the first legislature to today - and I remember that we are at the XVIII - confidence has been voted 63 times; no legislature since 1948 has ended with the same Government with which it began; only 9 out of 18 legislatures, half, lasted five years and in these 9 legislatures there have been 33 governments: an average of almost 4 governments per legislature. This means that we, and when I say we mean the whole of politics, are not able to manage this country with continuity, for the most disparate reasons: differences of approaches, struggles of power outside, or even within the same lineup, electoral system that does not confer governability (and by this I point out a fact, not a preference for a voting system). The changes of government generate operational instability, which is always harmful, both for citizens and for the institutional world (best spreads separately). Sometimes governments fall in advance, not because they are unable to reach a shared and mediated point of view on the issues on which the contractors have distant views, but because of the desire for power. I believe that "power" is the most appropriate term, because when it comes to power, the welfare of citizens is no longer at the forefront of policy objectives. I have 25 years of consulting experience and professional activity behind me: one of the first things you learn in the production area of a company is that the extreme variability in orders kills productivity, at best, and, at worst, instead, blocks the production and release of products. The same thing happens when a Government falls: the production cycle is interrupted and the new Government that settles transforms approaches and objectives and sometimes dismantles what has been done previously, in the perspective of the well-being of the Italians. But, in all this, the greatest damage is done precisely to Italy, because a nation is a much more complex machine than a production department of a company and when you change the driver and all the maneuvers, the machine takes time to start again and, in the meantime, the life of the Italians continues, every day. The Movimento 5 Stars, as we have said in every way (in the squares, on TV, in the radios and in the newspapers, also in here), voted, in this same Chamber, and every day in the Municipalities, in the Municipalities and in the Regions, also measures of other political forces. When he did, he did it because he believed that they were valid measures for Italians, and he will do it again! Before the elections on March 4, 2018, we said that if we did not have the majority to govern the country, we would ask the other political parties if they wanted to make a government with us on the issues. So it was, and we went on 14 months. Then, for reasons still unknown and on which I do not want to enter, the plug (and not from us) has been pulled and now we are here to discuss and vote on the confidence of the second government of Professor Count. The birth of this Government with a different part from the previous one was the subject of discussion within the Movement itself, highlighting positive and negative points of this new majority. The main negative point is that the Movement could be overwhelmed by other contractors, falling dramatically into the polls. The fundamental positive point is that the Movement will be able to carry out its programme. And more than 63,000 citizens have decreed that the positive points were more incisive than the negative ones. This shows, once again, that the 5 Star Movement is concerned about the issues and actions to be undertaken to achieve results for the good of the nation, and not the political groups with which to reach them, and is not interested in percentages and surveys. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When this country really becomes the country in which all services will work, citizens will be protected and protected, young people will not be forced to go abroad to find a job, then the Movimento 5 Stars will have completed its course. If politics had not ignored the signals launched a long time ago, the Movement would not have been born and we would not be here today, in the institutions. We care about the country. For us this is a civil service, politics is not a profession and we will return to our occupations, without occupying these benches for decades. In order to ensure, however, that this nascent Government can succeed in carrying out the program, it is appropriate to refer to what President Conte has already highlighted on 20 August during his speech here in the Senate and which has taken up, in another form, in the speech that he gave us. Words that I believe are the key to facing the challenge of this Government that is about to receive trust: loyal collaboration. I repeat: loyal cooperation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that these two simple words are the basis of government action and how all governments, especially those made up of several political groups, should act. If there is no loyal collaboration in wanting to complete the points that have been defined together, then this Government, any Government, will have short life, and the country will not have stability. The relationships held together by pulling the string sooner or later break, while dialogue, communication and transparency allow to find solutions that, even if not optimal, can be valid for the country and for the citizens. Having people of institutional culture and a sense of responsibility, as you said in August, President Conte, is fundamental, and I believe that the time has really come, on the part of everyone, no one excluded, to demonstrate that they always possess these qualities, on every occasion. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, during your first government's inauguration speech, you stated that you wanted to be the lawyer of the Italians: I am sure, even if you did not say so in your speech, that you will continue to be so, because now more than ever this country needs it. And if we can bring home all the points you have listed, then really this Government will be historic and unforgettable, and I, all of us, hope it is. Good work to you, your team and all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u134	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that the motion of confidence has been submitted to Government No. 165, signed by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Laniece. I'm sensing that the broadcast is being broadcast with RAI. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u135	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, allow me first of all to express my best wishes and to join in the best wishes for the birthday of Senator Segre. I believe that we can all agree that there is still very precious his personal testimony on one of the darkest pages in history of the twentieth century. So, to multos annos. Since yesterday, in the communications I made to the House and then handed over here to the Senate, I anticipated that this Government will also guarantee a more appropriate and more respectful language, an atmosphere of dialogue between institutions, between citizens and institutions and within the framework of society, I declare my personal support - and I will speak with all political forces confidently to find positive feedback on this point - for the initiative that Senator Segre has announced and that is very close to her, that is, a committee, a sort of observatory - then it will define itself better and Parliament will define it - against the hate speech, against the violent and aggressive language that is pervading society and that spreads in social networks. As has been anticipated (a little while ago there was the official announcement), the new President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen recognizes Italy as the most important portfolio, that of economic affairs. I invite you to consider - it is clear that here the political controversy, the logomachie are very intense and lively - that will be the Commissioner representing Italy as a whole in the European Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It will do so for five years and will be an important garrison for Italy, so not for the single majority of the shift but also, being a long time span, for those who will come after this Government. We will have to do everything we can to trust that we can carry out the reforms that are so dear to our country. We are in a perspective of a new legislature and I trust on this side that also the opposition forces will want to make their contribution, because what we will be able to build in this legislature will still remain for the benefit of all and will benefit all Italians. The objectives are already clear. We want to amend and revise the Stability and Growth Pact and ensure that these European rules ensure economic growth and, above all, the sustainable development of Italy and of Europe as a whole. We want more investment plans for the many outskirts of Europe, not just geographical ones. We want to take advantage of this more comprehensive investment plan to benefit our Mezzogiorno. We want Europe to invest more heavily on the African continent: it is unthinkable that Europe invests in Africa to a much less substantial extent than China does. Africa is here with us, it is a territory full of opportunities and prospects. We must work according to a model of partnership between peers, because it is in the mutual interest of African countries, Italy and the European Union that cooperation can be intensified. There are many other initiatives we need to work on together. Many of the interventions, especially those of the opposition forces, indulge almost mainly in the past. Then there are those who stood firm on August 8, when, with a certain arrogance and lack of knowledge of constitutional law, they felt, in order, to unilaterally trigger a crisis of government - and this is fully legitimate - but then, in addition, they felt, again, that they could unilaterally decide to bring the country to the elections. Even more unilaterally, he decided to take the country to the elections and the election campaign as Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And, again, he has decided, always unilaterally and arbitrarily, to permanently concentrate in his own hands the full powers. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, President Conte, continue. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. If this was the scheme, the project, the objective, it is understandable that all those who have hindered it, while respecting the Constitution and with a sense of responsibility, in order to avoid the country a serious, serious and economic uncertainty, have become enemies. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, armchairs! You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Dignity, dignity, dignity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let the President-in-Office of the Council make his speech. I have already said this morning that dignity is not lacking in this House. Please. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Yesterday's friends, the interpreters of change become not opponents, but enemies. BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Are you a statesman? Try to be! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Assign... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Don't be afraid of words. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Who's afraid of voting? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd like to hear the reply. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I have been here since this morning in religious silence and I have listened to all your speeches. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] You may disagree with what I say, but perhaps it would be correct to allow me to express what I have to say. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Assigning one's own faults to others is the clearest, most linear path to remain unresponsible for life, not to be confronted with the consequences of one's own decisions. It is a sure way, as far as I'm concerned, not the best, to maintain one's leadership, to drive away political mistakes. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] On the other hand, wandering is human, it often happens to everyone, even in politics, to be able to blame others for their mistakes is the best way, in politics, to maintain the leadership of a party. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Get elected! Let me vote for you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not okay, please. Let the President-in-Office speak, a little respect. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Speak to the House, President. PISANI Pietro (L-SP-PSd'Az). He must respect first. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. You often evoke, and repeat, the concept of dignity, a very important concept, especially from the legal point of view, because, as they say, it is the fundamental right of the person; but dignity, with regard to the role and functions of the President of the Council, cannot be recognized or not according to whether it works alongside you or not and is with you to the Government. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] I was the bishop of national interests until yesterday and today I discover that I have never been. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Dignity can come only from serving with discipline, honor and with the utmost commitment, the greatest effort and determination my country and the interests of Italians, nothing else. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then, calmly, in the coming weeks and months, you will explain to the country, since you evoke and link to this concept, what is dignified in all the sudden and sudden turnarounds that there have been in a few weeks. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Exactly. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). No shame. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. But out of respect for this House and the function of this sitting, I am here to talk about the government programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On this point, I would like to refer, for further consideration, to the communications I have given. The debate I have followed very carefully today - I have taken a lot of notes - calls, however, for some clarification. I am pleased because it has been acknowledged that the political project is very important to invest in school, university and research. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Our goal is not so much and only to invest more, but to invest better in knowledge because the future face of Italy will be drawn above all by what we will be able to do in terms of investments in this sector. An educational model that addresses the fascinating and complex problem of knowledge no longer based on what to learn, but on how to learn, therefore on the basis of a method that strengthens the ability of our young people to navigate the paths of knowledge, their digital skills, which are strategic already in the world of work and are increasingly necessary to grow, improve and dialogue with the world. It is also our goal to enhance the role of teachers, who also have a lot to complain about from an economic point of view if we look at comparative statistics with other countries. A primary objective - I repeat - will be research and dialogue between university centres and research bodies. We must work in this direction even more intensively. There is much to be done in terms of coordination and liaison to strengthen the research system and in terms of improving the recruitment rules as well. Without disturbing anything, we can intervene to better adapt the recruitment, selection of researchers and the same valorization of research projects compared to international standards. There are best practices that are now acclaimed. [[Illarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Speak Italian! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Best practices are now being hailed internationally. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. We want the translation! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I did it. I was saying of the best practices at international level, which we must apply extensively in Italy as well. Surely a tool, a path and an objective that will allow us to improve the whole sector will be the establishment of a national agency that takes charge of greater coordination, connection and at the same time the application of these principles that make our system more competitive compared to the global challenge, that exists also in this field of research. There is a problem, however: we must always have this aspect: we can enhance research, we can invest more, but if in the end our most qualified young people go abroad it will be an investment that will prove unproductive. That is why, at the same time, we must make sure - we are very keen - that our system is attractive not only for young Italians who have gone abroad, but also for young foreigners who will be able to move to Italy because they will find a smarter environment for research. I have been asked by a number of speakers for further clarification on agriculture. The agricultural sector is a strength of our system and has world excellence; we must therefore strengthen them, but also improve and strengthen the entire agri-food chain. To do this we must act at various levels. It is already known that there is a strategic negotiation for Italy: the common agricultural policy (CAP) in Europe. We need to talk, we were already working on it, but we need to get back to it. We must have an impact on the negotiations on the CAP and, of course, on the investment that we will face in the years to come. We cannot be satisfied with the current state of the negotiations; we must combat Italian soiling and defend our best agronomic practices, both traditional and organic crops; we must encourage and support the agricultural enterprise, agricultural economic activities, particularly for young people; we must also combat abuse; we can certainly also encourage cooperative mechanisms, but of course not those that lend themselves to abuse. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Some interventions seem to point to a not complete, not determined attention for the productive world. This is really a misunderstanding: we are strongly determined to increase the economic growth of the country. We are aware of the weakness of domestic demand: there are sectors in particular which have been languishing for some time or which are in any case experiencing moments of crisis, of difficulties for some years. I am referring to construction: we absolutely must intervene on that sector, because it is, among other things, a highly profitable sector, with a very strong multiplier effect. Another sector is the automotive industry, where unfortunately we discount the fact that we are part of an integrated system, so it is clear that if the signs that come from Germany are negative, they become very worrying for us too. We will work in this direction and, as I have already said, also to strengthen the export system, against which Italy is very strong; it is clear that the unfavorable international economic situation penalizes us, but this is precisely the time to strengthen all the instruments to enable our companies to grow in terms of competitiveness even abroad. In my communications, I have reserved a separate speech for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is the strength of our productive fabric. I was saying that small is beautiful, but if we allow the little one to grow up and strengthen himself, it's even more beautiful. The figure of this political project will be that we will also ask companies and the productive world to follow us; We do not, of course, expect to impose a climate of economic dirigism, because we are for the free market, but we also want to give signs of a future direction for companies to help us design the society we want. We therefore want to encourage socially responsible practices, because this means having a better working environment, continuous professional qualifications of workers, respect for the environment, awareness of the consequences in terms of the environmental impact of economic initiatives taking place. When the concept of new humanism declines, I am referring not only to respect for the person as an isolated monad, but also to economic initiatives. Of course, we want to direct the country towards the circular economy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have the very clear ideas on this and that is why, in view of the constitutional reforms that we will be working on, we will endeavour to propose the inclusion in the Constitution of the principle of environmental protection, respect for biodiversity and respect for sustainable development. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] GALLONE (FI-BP). What about businesses? Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Let me also say that all economic initiatives, of course, are always considered by us in the perspective of an incentive to the production system. We want to set up tax reform so that there is an incentive for businesses: we do not want companies to be deterred from growing because of more penalising taxation. We want to simplify the life and relationships between business and financial administration; we want to make corporate tax friends, as well as citizens. We want to ease the overall tax burden. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Tell us how! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. When we have reasoned and reason for a tax wedge to the full benefit of the workers, it is because we believe that we do not have to mock the Italians and we are aware that, with a view to an immediate economic manoeuvre that will engage us in the first structural reform, that is to say to contain and avoid the increase in VAT, the current resources will be scarce. It is clear then that we imagine intervention on the tax wedge to the full benefit of workers. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We hope, however, that we will also have more resources for companies. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] I respond in particular to Senator Bagnai, who has asked me, also because of his competence, about what is happening in Europe with regard to the reform of the banking and monetary union. I say this briefly because the subject is very technical. You're from the L-SP-PSD'AZ group, but we understand, we understand! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I would remind you that, before the European Council and the Eurosummit held on 21 June 2019, I came to Parliament to make communications on agenda issues, including the completion of the banking and monetary union. In particular, the new Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) was discussed in these European fora. As I said on that occasion, on behalf of the Government present, I personally voted in favour of Parliament's resolution which, if it does not change, commits the Government to proceeding according to a package logic. In other words, with respect to the three changes that are being worked on in the perspective of the banking and monetary union (the ESM Treaty, EDIS, deposit insurance and, again, the eurozone's single budget), it has been said - and this is an approach that I personally have shared and which we will continue to pursue - that Italy cannot grant on the ESM front without obtaining on the other fronts as well. I said that and I was very hard at the European Council. [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] I have introduced a precise conditioning reference to the application of the whole package. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). You made a package, not a package! You made a package! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. So now Italy... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But are you interested in following or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please. Go ahead, President Count. , President of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, as Parliament shares this view, Italy has currently reserved its approval for the outcome of the definition of all three reform projects. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With regard to the issue of illegal trusts, the Government obviously does not enter into the substance of ongoing investigations, which have their own process; politics does not overlap with judicial investigations. With regard to the competence of the Government, however, a measure has already been adopted: a special justice team for the protection of minors has been set up at the Ministry of Justice. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Put her in PD! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. In other words, we believe that there is an urgent need for monitoring existing legislation and a more effective census of the trusts. RONZULLI (FI-BP). Just change the code! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I listened silently to her. President Conte, speak with the whole assembly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] RONZULLI (FI-BP). I know you're not talking to me. You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Bibbiano! Bibbiano! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm just saying, if you let me talk, there's no chance of talking to others. Just answer the House, President Conte. Please continue quietly. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] MORONESE (M5S). But they have to shut up. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would certainly like to continue, if I may. I was saying that this is certainly not an issue of opposition or majority, as I hope. We are talking about the protection of minors and effective measures for the protection of our children. We must certainly create - I believe this is a very effective and useful measure - a national database for aphids, so that we can cross the data and detect any anomalies already from the cross-section of the data. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Look left! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Obviously we are available, because of the objective of intensifying the protection of minors - it is not political and cannot be circumscribed territorially, but it is a problem that concerns everyone - to share, even with oppositions, proposals for further measures in this direction. [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Senator Binetti urged me to take a public position on the subject of so-called medically assisted suicide and the problem of its possible decriminalization or legalization, depending on the visual angle. As is well known, there is an order of the Constitutional Court (No 207 of 2018) and there is a strong suspicion of the unconstitutionality of the current Article 580 of the Criminal Code. The theme, Senator Binetti - as you have seen and as you yourself pointed out - is not the subject of the government program. I felt myself not to include it in the government programme, because I do not think it is an issue that lends itself to a political project and to policy lines for a new experience of government. Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). So you have to decide the court? What about the centrality of Parliament? Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Fundamental rights of the person are at stake. First of all, the right to life comes into play, which is a fundamental legal protection for every human being; on the contrary, I would say that it is that right from which all the manifestations of the personality that we go to protect subsequently radiate. The question then arises about the alleged existence of a right to death, about the role that a third person may have, although qualified, as a doctor may be, urged to offer, if necessary, a response to the request for intervention that comes from a patient. This issue then challenges us to compose a disagreement between fundamental principles, which obviously conflict in this matter: the principle of the protection of life and the principle of self-determination, which for someone sinks in the protection of the dignity of the person. It is therefore a debate that really involves political, moral, ethical and philosophical issues: I think it is improper to bring it back to a government initiative. What I personally can hope for is that Parliament will find the way and the opportunities to deepen these issues and can do so quickly. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]] Otherwise it would lead to a ruling by the Constitutional Court, which - I would like to draw everyone's attention to - clearly has a limited range of action, given its competence. Therefore, it would be desirable to be able to find a broad consensus in order to be able to intervene and legislate in this area. I can only recommend - as has already been said by the National Bioethics Committee - that the use of palliative care should be encouraged on this subject; it would be important to strengthen all measures to alleviate the suffering of incurable patients and, finally, it would be very important to work to strengthen the bioethics training of health workers. One last joke on immigration [[Comments from FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] The opposition, in some speeches, even solemn, reasoned of loyal opposition. [[Senator Zaffini's comments.]] I ask all the forces represented here - not only by majority, but also by opposition - and I also ask all Italian citizens who listen to us live: from now on we avoid obsessively focusing on the slogan "open doors-doors closed " [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . I [[Senators Bossi Simone and Ripamonti show signs bearing the inscription "Applause" at the address of the PD Group. Comments from the PD Group]] The issue of immigration is an issue on which we have already clarified...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u136	Colleagues, sign off! Please, put the signs away!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u137	[[Live comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and PD Groups]] Please, Mr. President. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Mr President. Immigration is an issue on which this Government has already clarified that it will work on a multilevel level - as it deserves to be addressed - and therefore we will intensify cooperation with the countries of origin [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] , where illicit trafficking originates. We will work with the countries of transit, where the routes of migratory flows are transiting and concentrated. We will work to combat illicit trafficking in particular, because it is an inhumane trade. We will work to combat illegal immigration, because we believe that a sovereign state has the right to regulate access to its borders. We will also work - but be careful - to allow a more complete integration of those who are entitled to stay on our territory. We absolutely need to strengthen the return mechanism and broaden the spectrum. We have few agreements at the moment; we must conclude many more, and that is why, from the outset, I have put this issue before the new Commissioner, President of the Commission, and found great openings. Therefore, it must also be managed at European level and we must work as soon as possible to amend the Dublin Regulation. I note that on the specific - given that the political controversy focuses on the current decrees-laws - this Government has been very clear: it will collect the observations of the President of the Republic; in particular, it seems sacrosanct the principle of proportionality between conduct and sanction, as well as that of legality and fiscality of administrative action. I'll finish with a joke. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. No! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I have tried several times in the past to represent that those who have a minimum legal education know well that every norm or legislative provision can also write in a language, clear, very clear way. But let us always remember that that legislative provision will be interpreted in a constitutionally oriented sense, because our legal system has a scaffolding consisting of constitutional principles, supranational architecture and treaties to which we adhere. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well done, louder cheers! [[Some of the Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group display signs bearing the words: "Applause" and "Barone"]] Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. It is now common heritage that any rule, any administrative circular, any administrative regulation is interpreted in the constitutional sense. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u138	Let's get the signs out! choir from group L-SP-PSd'Az. Elections! Elections! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u141	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Colleagues and colleagues, Ministers and Ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as we reiterated during the consultations, in our Group there are different assessments of this Government. Most of us will vote for confidence, some will abstain, with the commitment to assess measure by measure, but none of us will vote against it. We are delighted that you are presiding today at a firmly Europeanist government. We have said for months that the confrontation with Europe would not have been useful either for Italy or for a project to reform Europe. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. Thanks to you too, this Commission today enjoys an estimate at European level which, for us, is a very important fact, because we are for an increasingly united Europe and against the return of nationalism. With the fear of the different and with the slogans "First the Italians" or "First the Hungarians" you get nowhere, except to a world characterized by increasingly threatening conflicts. On the contrary, for us in South Tyrol the dream is a Europe without nationalism and internal borders, starting with that of the Brenner, which, for us, is a wound that cannot be reopened at all. He sees, precisely in these hours, the hundredth anniversary of the Paris Peace Conference, with which the division of Tyrol was sanctioned, with the southern part attributed to Italy and the northern part assigned to Austria. For our population there was a period of extraordinary suffering, which culminated in the advent of fascism, which aimed to erase our history and our traditions, and of Nazism, which wanted to transform us into colonists of occupied Poland. Fortunately, this did not happen because of many South Tyrolean fighters and also because of the wisdom of many Italian politicians who, after the war, worked to transform a powder keg into an example of peace and coexistence between different stories and peoples. When we saw that, in yesterday's protests in front of Montecitorio, the Roman salute was made, the first thought was that this Government is on the right side. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD. Comments from the FdI Group]] In this respect, we also welcome Mr Boccia's words and those of Mr Boccia on the protection of linguistic minorities and special autonomy. In fact, we think that South Tyrol, in a world crossed by so many conflicts, is increasingly a model to export and, therefore, it is right to always give it maximum protection and attention. President Conte, I have already expressed in other places my personal appreciation for your sense of the institutions and your political style. I do not see any particularly critical points in the government programme either; on the contrary, it seems to me balanced between economic needs and social and ecological aspects. But what will count, of course, will be the facts. The only criticism I personally feel I have to make is that a third of women in the new Executive are few in relation to the objectives of equal opportunities which, however, are an important part of your programme. However, I hope that women in the government will be "Minister" and not "Ministers," because - as we know - words build reality. And I hope they're judged for what they're gonna do and not the way they're dressed. I therefore wish you good work. We will have a fair and constructive attitude, in the hope that from here a new good season for Italy can be born. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u144	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, President Conte, ladies and gentlemen, Ministre and Ministers, the majority who are preparing to vote on the government's trust is not, for us, an improvised solution, built in a hurry to avoid elections. On the contrary, it is the formula that, as Free and Equal, we had already indicated immediately after the elections of 4 March 2018 as the only one able to offer answers to the demands of the country; the only political alliance able to seize the opportunity that that electoral outcome represented for our country, making it propulsive and non-regressive. The circumstances that led to the crisis lead many - I have heard so many comments - to the doubt that this majority is made up of incompatible forces. The reality is different. We have been convinced from the beginning, as Free and Equal, of the need to give life to this new majority, certainly between different forces, but much less than they themselves wanted to represent. We knew and know that it is the only way to ensure that citizens' needs are translated into a truly real step forward and change. Among the forces of this majority there is a common feeling about the country's fundamental problems. The demonstration is the programme that we have drawn up together: a common political programme, not a 'contract' put together by crowding together measures and political horizons that are often irreconcilable. It must be stressed that the conditions that have led to the formation of this political majority, of which we are convincedly involved, are not only entirely legitimate for our Constitution. I am also - at last, I say - a concrete reaffirmation of parliamentary democracy, of the centrality of Parliament, of the correct application of the spirit of the Constitution, all too often at this time overwhelmed by the thunder of a demagogic political communication and by man's myth only under command. It is not a theft of democracy; it is not a palace game. It's the Constitution. I would like to say here about the Constitution that I have once again heard insulting and inappropriate words about senators for life. I would like to reiterate that I am proud - like all of us in this House - to have listened - for example - to our Senator Liliana Segre to remind us of the value of history, memory, a woman, a great woman, who lived on herself the horror and absolute evil of the twentieth century. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] You did well, Mr Conte, when you voluntarily chose to bring the crisis to Parliament, to parliamentarians, because - as has been seen - this crisis took place in Parliament. The new majority, based on the sharing of a programme and a political project, was born here, in the Parliament of the Republic. The programme presented by the President-in-Office of the Council is by no means a list of titles or a list of good intentions. It indicates a change of pace, it gives the sign of the turning point, in the name of which the Government demands the confidence. For the first time, in the programme and in the words of the President of the Council, the environment is not a chapter among many, placed there almost out of duty, treated superficially with a sort of rhetorical sentimentalism. It is, on the contrary, the backbone of the entire program. Every aspect of this was affected, from ecological conversion to the development model, to industrial, agricultural and energy policies. In this perspective, the green new deal is not just a green investment plan. It is connected to a strong idea of ecological transition. It is a fair and sustainable development project, which can also respond to the short-term threats of a new recession, focusing on quality growth, the only one that can ensure the creation of a new and stable employment. Social sustainability and environmental sustainability are today two sides of the same coin and, as such, this majority intends to consider them. The ecological conversion, investments in the circular economy and the launch of a modern energy policy, which is completely affected by fossil fuels, aim to respond at the same time to the two enormous problems that mark our time: the environmental emergency, marked by the catastrophe of climate change, and the crisis of an ancient development model, which results in the no longer bearable enlargement of social inequalities. Courageous decisions are required. This is not the time of timid choices, of infinite referrals, of small or very small steps. It is necessary, President, to declare immediately the climate emergency state - as other countries have done - as a precondition for the taking of subsequent decisions. We were asked by thousands of young people in Venice last Saturday. Today, addressing these issues means, at the same time, dealing with the chronic shortage of work, income, hope and confidence in the future. This is the meaning of the commitment to include protection of the environment and biodiversity in the Constitution. It is about working thinking not only today but also about the future. We want to make an intergenerational pact, with which politics finally assumes the responsibility of looking not only at us, but also, and above all, at the generations to come. This government is born to change things strategically. We will make every effort to achieve this. For this ambitious and forward-looking challenge, we must start with concrete and immediate choices, first of all in terms of social inequalities, with interventions on labour, minimum wages and the tax wedge for workers and with strong investments for the Mezzogiorno. "Spontaneous" is not a word to spend on the market of easy propaganda. It means taking courageous decisions - for example - already in the first phase of the government process, with serious and massive investments in schools, universities, knowledge, for the relaunch of the public health system. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] We have 11 million people who have difficulty accessing treatment: Let's remember that. It is also urgent to take action on the reform of justice, for swift and efficient justice. It is also important to intervene - for example - on a tragedy that has so far found little place, even on the agenda of this Parliament. Something must be done immediately about the deaths at work. More than 600 people are already dead at work this year. We are faced with a massacre that, instead of decreasing, increases from year to year. This is literally intolerable. But real trend reversals will also be necessary. On the security front - for example - it is urgent to exit once and for all from security logics, from the campaigns set up by political entrepreneurs of fear, who have only spread an unreasonable hatred and made our country no longer safe, but, sometimes, certainly more inhuman. The issue of immigration must be solved by overcoming the short-sighted logic of the emergency, to replace it with an overall and long-term vision, based on the development of a new organic law and on the full sharing of responsibilities with the other countries of the European Union. The theme of differentiated autonomy must be reset and constitutionally oriented. We must proceed, but - as President Conte himself pointed out - because this is necessary and so the law provides, only after determining the essential levels of performance and the equalization fund. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is born at a very particular and extremely sensitive time for the whole of Europe. For the first time, even as a result of the difficulties of the German economy, the European Union is beginning to take note of the failure of restrictive policies and begins, still too timidly, to seek other ways. We're on a very thin ridge. Things can bend in a direction like in the opposite direction. The role of our country at this time is fundamental in Europe. Of this change, to change the Stability Pact and - for example - the Treaty of Dublin, Italy today can be the protagonist in a firm but not hostile confrontation, as it was until recently. In the current crisis of globalisation, Italy needs to increase domestic demand in order to revive the economy. That is also why we must act against inequalities. I want to conclude with a fundamental issue for the future of the Government and our majority. In this hectic month, there was talk, perhaps too much, of continuity and discontinuity. But this government cannot live on the basis of dialectic with the government or with previous governments. We can't think of qualifying for distance outlets. We have to look ahead, think big. We must take on the challenges that affect Italy but also Europe and the world, our country but also the planet, the citizens of today and at the same time future generations. This is the challenge of a turning government and it is to make our own this challenge that we Senators of Free and Equal today will vote firmly for the government. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u147	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr Conte, we heard yesterday in the House and today here in the Senate your speeches and your very long reply, even - allow us - a bit of a delight that you wanted to inflict on the House. We have heard her utter so many important words and concepts, of the future, of courage, of responsibility, of dignity and also of respect that she asks, as a person and as an institutional office, that we do not have any difficulty in recognizing them. Mr President, the question that we want to ask you and who is listening to us is as follows: has the Government that is about to be born had respect for Italian citizens? I am not referring to formal respect, a little notary, the one at the forefront of constitutional law, on which you have taught us many lessons in recent weeks. I am talking to you about real, concrete, substantial respect; respect for which should have suggested more coherence and transparency and, finally, even more courage, Mr President. Allow me to say that courage doesn't even know where it is at home. If you and she, President Count, had courage, you should take the twenty-nine points of your alliance, turn them into a beautiful electoral program and ask for popular judgment. If it is true that you are convinced to do the good of the country; if you are really sincere when you say that this Government is born to make the interest of Italy and not as a horrible pateracchio, as we think, then why not make the Italians decide, all 60 million Italians and not just the few thousand members of the platform Rousseau? [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Testor]] Mr President, why in this country has it become extravagant to ask to vote? Or rather, we can only vote if it suits the left. If it suits the left, then the vote is an extraordinary exercise of democracy; vice versa, if it risks winning the center-right, asking for the vote is an attack on freedom. In recent weeks someone has asked us why we want to vote, as if we had blasphemed in church simply asking that Italians could express their opinion. Since there is the small detail that you have lost all the elections in the last two years (European, municipal, regional), then any solution is fine; any agreement is fine; you digest any toad; you deny the statements made only a few weeks ago; you deny your past, your personal history and even your credibility. Everyone understood that this government was born only for this reason, also because you had the ingenuity to declare it publicly; there are photos, videos and statements recorded to testify to it. Now you explain to us that the government really serves to save Italy. And to think that instead we believe that it serves only to save your power, your positions of power; to regain the lost power, that power which some 5 Stars called rotten when protesting outside Parliament, but which now would not abandon for nothing to the world. You say you want to save Italy, but we wonder: who will save Italy from this Government? Who will save Italy from this majority? Allow me, President Conte, to reflect. After listening to his accusations to Minister Salvini and the answers of the former Minister Salvini today - you have exchanged accusations of all kinds, you have overturned yourselves and you have turned against mistakes and falsehoods of any kind - I wonder: after the failure of an alliance that we alone and immediately had defined against nature, what sense does it have to put in place another even worse than the previous one? It is a matter of therapeutic aggression against the interests of the Italian people. Who will save Italy from this Government? Will we still hear about the Commission about banks, President Conte, or nothing more? Who will investigate the Bible's scandal? Will the Bibbiano party, Minister Di Maio - I don't see him in the Chamber - solve the problems of the Bible? Will it still be possible to talk about the mix between politics and the CSM or will it not be fashionable anymore? And what will happen to the interweaving of politics and evil, of corruption, since it is governed by the party you called the octopus of corruption? What will happen to immigration policy, security, tax cuts, investment plan, VAT and all that will unfortunately remain just a dream book? You tell us - and we have heard it today - that this Government is born under the best auspices, because the European Commission, the strong powers of Europe, call it reliable. Of "reliable" governments we have already known several: it was the governments that increased taxes and opened the borders to 600,000 illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Well, governments so trustworthy we do not feel nostalgia or need. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Colleagues of the majority born, you have put together a beautiful pastrocchio: an alliance that starts from LEU, from the radical left to arrive at PD, to the 5 Stars, to the various humanity of the mixed groups that have intervened today, all of course in direct or indirect support. We do not need to be moralists, President, to say that what is going on today is the worst transformation in republican history, the worst and also - let me say this - the most vulgar of the transformations of republican history. I would like to ask you - and I sincerely ask you - what is your idea of politics? What is your idea of serving Italy, the country? I ask why you have often repeated this concept: to serve Italy, to serve the country. We see, on the other hand, that you are taking on a serious responsibility today, which is above all a grave, grave fault for us. The fault is to make the Italians, the people who listen to us, who read the newspaper and look at us, that in the end politics can be nothing better and different than what happens today, this sad theater of conformism and transformation. Politics, for you, is this. But we have a different idea. But today you win the worst idea of politics. You, with your behavior, make it clear above all to the youngest people who in politics do not win who is better, who is more serious, who is more coherent, but who wins the smartest, the most unscrupulous. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] He wins who promises one thing and then does another. Anyone who believes in nothing wins and is willing to do anything. It wins those who claim that one is worth one, but in reality one is worth the other because nothing is worth it. Vince, President, who today is asking here, in this House, for consent to do tomorrow the exact opposite of what he did yesterday. So what is the face of this supposed turning government after the Government of Change? Mr President, were you wrong 14 months ago, when you presented yourself as the people's lawyer, or are you wrong today? President, were you being honest 14 months ago or are you now? Or sincere, with the Italians, you never really were? These are the questions we ask you. In conclusion, Mr President, the party I represent, the Brothers of Italy, will have a thousand defects, but at least one quality we ask that we be recognized and that quality is consistency, because we have not betrayed the vote, we have not participated in strange negotiations, neither on the bench nor under the bench, neither during the crisis nor before the crisis, neither with the PD nor with the Movimento 5 Stars and, strong of such consistency, we announce that we will make an opposition without discounts to this Government which for us is politically scandalous. We will make an open-faced opposition, challenging you, President Conte, on the merits of the things and draft laws that you will present. We'll challenge you face-to-face on the merits of things. And we will hear the reasons for our protest and the strength of our proposals in the streets, in Parliament, in the Senate, wherever possible, until - hopefully as soon as possible - the word finally returns to the Italians. [[The Senators of the FdI Group stand up and display signs bearing the inscription "VOTO" and the Italian flag. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're from the FdI Group. Vote! Vote! Vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please intervene the Senators Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u150	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues, today is an important day for our country and our institutions. Before I get to the heart of my speech, which will focus on the work we have done together over the past few weeks on the programme, I have to say a few words about the debate we have been witnessing. In particular, I want to say one thing to my colleagues in the League and to Senator Salvini. I also sincerely - I say it with my heart - do not envy you at all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not envy you when you speak in this House of loyalty, honor and treason. I do not envy you for how you behaved towards the country, the national community, for how you decided to favor the interest of part over the interest of the whole nation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have done it unscrupulously; you have done it excessively in ways and forms and you are doing it in the wrong way even today. I remind you that, at the time when the government between League and Movimento 5 Stars was born, that is, between the first party that had the best result in the elections and the third party, we recognized your right to govern simply because ours is a parliamentary republic and you had found the majority in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We would hope for at least the same treatment, but obviously you are not able to carry it forward. You spoke of allergy to the people and closure of the squares. The only squares we want to close are those that we want to pedestrianize in our cities to make them more beautiful and more livable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The elections will be at a time when the Constitution provides for them or when Parliament will not be able to express a majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When you speak of fear I don't envy you; I don't envy Senator Salvini, because I think that fear may have had it in mind because of the Russian events or the investigations that have taken place. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I would also like to say a few words to the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars. choir from group L-SP-PSd'AZ. Bibbiano, Bibbiano! Senators, please! Mr Marcucci (PD). Usually, he calls back by making some names of the senators. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I was saying that I want to speak to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, my colleagues in Liberi and Equals, the Mixed Group and the Autonomouss who will vote in favour. It is not an easy path; we have had very strong parliamentary and programmatic comparisons in recent months, but I believe that with a great sense of responsibility, of love for our country, we have decided to try to walk a path together, to build - yes - a real and united program on the things on which our country needs to legislate and intervene. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We decided to carry out a project to relaunch our country system thinking about interventions on small and medium-sized enterprises, on the agricultural world, the relaunch of private investments with incentives and public investments, which unfortunately have been blocked this year. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have thought of the future of an Italy that looked more strongly and determinedly at green investments, the ecological ones, those that go in the perspective of changing our country, changing and improving our planet. We have brought the work back to the heart of our programme, at the heart of government action. We have decided to cut the tax wedge, because we must give more strength to the consumption of Italians, our families and wages; moreover we have decided that all that incentive will go in favor of the job and not the enterprise, because the latter will be helped by the raising of the consumption. We have decided to make a serious, close and institutional confrontation with Europe; the first results are coming and I would have expected applause from the old and new oppositions, because finally Italy has come back to count in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, it has adequate representation within the European Parliament, with the President, and within the Commission, with today's appointment of President Gentiloni Silveri. I believe that those who love our country at certain times must still be so strong as to recognize the results that carry on the collective interest of the nation. However, we have not heard that today either. The only mantra that we have heard today is to go towards the vote, because through the vote you so think to increase your armchairs, totally freaking out the interests of Italy [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and continuing with today's attitudes (Some Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group [[They display signs bearing the words: "Aho ma de che se ragione?"]] ...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u151	Senator, wait a minute and we'll have the cartels removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u152	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr. President, a name. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators displaying cartels are formally recalled. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, thank you. Of course, I will need to make up for the time that has been wasted. Therefore, you have not even had this institutional attention and the behaviour of today, which has been evident since the beginning of the debate, has clarified what relationship you have had and which you continue to have with democratic institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Dear Senator Salvini, I had a way of saying that we were afraid and it is the truth, because we were afraid of your words and attitudes. But let us return to the programme, to the Italy we want; let us return to the investments we have asked for and agreed on on school, university and research, to ensure a different future for our young people and an economy that can return to growth, greater equity and also the possibility of determining a better destruction of wealth. I believe that in politics we must have an impetus, a moment when we go beyond our own calculations of shop and defend an ideal, that for all of us who sit on these scrabbles must be first and foremost the interest of our country, of Italy as a whole. I say this to my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars: at that table we succeeded, thanks to your presence and your strength, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at last to build a government, a majority, a joint project and, I add, a dream, a perspective, a moment that united us knowing that we were protecting our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and that, Mr President, we did not want to allow anyone to make this happen. You tried to do that. You tried a crisis that prepared on the beaches and with so much noise. You prepared this crisis by trying to plunge Italy into chaos, causing the enormous damage that would have been the increase in VAT, which would have compressed the spending capacity of our citizens and would have put in trouble our entire economic system. You have also tried the weapon of blackmail on the times, but - alas - the sense of responsibility of this new majority has prevailed against you and against the hatred that you have shown and that you continue to demonstrate today. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] CHORO FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Elections! Elections! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a difficult moment awaits us, with noisy opposition without ideas and no prospects. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] A daily routine awaits us in Parliament in which we will not find the institutional respect of the Assemblies of the Senate and the Chamber. However, we, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have at heart the interest of the country and we will loyally give it confidence. [[Live comments from Senator Pellegrini Emanuele.]] We will work in the Commission and in this House in the interests of Italy and in order to implement the ambitious programme that we have given ourselves together and that will today be our guideline for Italy, for Europe and for all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u155	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this Government is certainly not born with the official statements of Minister Salvini, let alone with the motion of mistrust presented by the League. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This government was born much earlier, otherwise it would not explain the letter that the President of the Count Council, together with the Minister of Economy Tria, sent to the European Commission on July 2, confirming essentially that Italy would remain under the constraint of 1.8 in the deficit-GDP ratio. In this way the maneuver has been totally rewritten, giving no possibility to make an expansive maneuver and canceling undoubtedly any hypothesis to carry on the plan of flat tax, except then on August 25 - as has been confirmed today - hear the statements of Minister Tria according to which all in all 2,4 or 2,7 are not then a taboo, now that to the government there are no more the sovereignists (the real ones, I dare say). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This shows that perhaps more than in deficit democracy we have here a clear deficit of democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Do we want to think about the 14 votes that have been decisive for the election of Ursula von der Leyen, the famous rigorist who undoubtedly had nothing to do with the policy of challenging Europe that began with the Giallorossi Government? Then there was the election of Sassoli as President of the European Parliament and Vice-President Castaldo; again, let us think of the request by the Democratic Party that the alleged Russiagate come to report here to the Senate, not Salvini, but President Conte: which means that certain winks were already there before, since President Conte himself then came to the Chamber, consenting immediately to your request. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then there were the constant vetoes of the League's proposals. Other, then, than incomprehensible crises, other than politics of self-harm: gentlemen, we simply anticipated what had already been set for some time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We had understood that a good part of the 5 Star Movimento had passed on the other side of the barricade; already, because for the President of the Count Council the enemies were no longer the elite, the market drift, the drift of finance, austerity, but they had become the representatives of the League because they were growing too much: this is the truth, so at least let's clarify once and for all how things really went. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It was not worth trying to recover the contract with that part of the 5 Stars that he did not want and, in our opinion, still does not want to go with the Democratic Party and that has maintained, especially here in the Senate, the anti-system spirit. Cricket came in and basically said, "No, gentlemen, it is necessary to do so and the time has come for the Movimento, which was born against the system, to become organic to it, evidently because it has some other project for the future. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But let's go to the program and the team. Well, the program, President, consists of 27 pages without arguments; it looks like one of those preprinters that needs to be filled with arguments that can be useful for all government programs of all government administrations of the state [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , but could basically be summed up in one line: stop Salvini and the League. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yeah, because Senator Renzi said blocking Salvini was a duty and a mission, and so did the leader of the Zingaretti party. First obvious result: Salvini isolated and beaten. But it has also been said that, with this Government, suddenly we must overcome hatred and find a bit of humanity. Yeah, but from a government that above all has the hatred of Salvini as its glue, surely this is a hypocritical and also unbelievable attitude. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the contrary, we say to you, having listened to the speeches and been here all the time, that we should at least try to pretend to get along a little bit. Everyone knows it's a forced marriage. Just pretend. Speaking of loving each other, let's forget about hate and love each other a little bit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yes, of course, it is a government of purpose; this is quite obvious. Firstly, we must prevent elections. But certainly by doing so, among other things, you also do wrong to your voters; do not forget that they too have the right to vote on the Democratic Party, the Movimento 5 Stars and so on. We say that this is a sort of vile democracy, that we do not tolerate and for which we will always continue to fight, calling for elections immediately, as we have already done today. This is the first objective: to prevent elections. The second is to allow Renzi to organize the new party. It seems quite clear to us that this is a government of purpose, in addition to the 400 nominations, to the election of the President of the Republic, all things that certainly give a good sense of attachment to those who are the real needs of our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And the confirmation - I apologize - comes very clearly from the fact that neither Renzi, nor Zingaretti, nor Orlando, nor Marcucci are part of the government team, as if to say: It's a government of purpose: we stay out and see what's going on. You do not believe it either; we have also seen it today, as was well said before by our Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then putting a Minister of the Technical Interior is definitely a sign of weakness. Mr Patuanelli, whom we wish him well, is perhaps one of the few who deserves that position; we say it very clearly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] In this case too, instead of putting it to the Ministry of Infrastructure, of which it was more competent, they left it to economic development, with 150 company crises on the table. Good work, Patuanelli! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Then, if we want to think about the Ministry of Economics and Finance, we can certainly say that we have gone from special observations to special controlled ones; undoubtedly our country from today turns out Commissariat [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In view of the history of Mr Roberto Gualtieri, who spoke of fiscal compacts, economics and stability, and what is more particularly understood. By the way, President Conte, the fact that we have forgotten the North a bit, given the composition of the ministers, so the fact that we have forgotten the productive part of the country does not even help the South, is clear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If you do not help the productive part, do not help South Italy, do not help it with a new bank of the Mezzogiorno, do not help the South so, be clear! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But let's come to you, Professor "Giuseppi." What a disappointment! I say to her that we did not know this opportunist, incoherent, transformist side of her, disguised under the likeness of the Peacekeeper, of the balanced man, of the man who uses a mild tongue to read his speech, but who speaks again of humanism. Yeah, you should understand what doctrine it is; it seems more like a doctrine of self-pleasing. Well, rather than the primacy of the person, as you wrote, President Conte, I think you would have wanted to write the primacy of your person. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Nice teaching to young people: as a lawyer of the people, to lawyer of the elite and of the palaces. Nice teaching to young people today, since I have heard about it: in order to keep the chair, be ready also to renounce your dignity. Yes, it is undoubtedly suited to the spirit of the times [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But that's something we're gonna fight against. In fact, by the way, we regret that Minister Di Maio is not present here, because we would have wanted him to say - and we leave him to the acts - that that wink on the oath is a very close relative of the most famous "stai sereno" by Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A dear friend tells me that she reminds me a little 'that try to believe! - I don't know if you remember - obviously with all respect for the advertising of Aiazzzone and for Guido Angeli. I shall conclude, Mr President. Speaking of sunshine, our fear is that you, ladies and gentlemen, were somewhat blinded during this summer, especially because perhaps there will remain the doubt that, both for the Democratic Party and for the 5 Star Movement, it would not have been so negative to vote. The PD could have reappeared, in the name of: "We do not give the full powers, fascism... and all these beautiful stories, which we have heard for some time, but which can make their grip. The same applies to the Movimento 5 Stars, which with Conte candidate Premier, before betrayal, could have reached a good percentage and forced the League substantially in the future to negotiate. Instead you made your choice and got together. The Council was probably right to talk about September, because you have undoubtedly established your assisted political suicide. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Salvini won't last, how did we hear? No, it'll last a long time. The League does not say so, because "he who praises himself is shaky," but Massimo D'Alema said, in a conference three months ago, when he argued that Salvini will last a long time, because - attention - the economic crisis, the migratory flows, the ungoverned globalization, the need for identity in the end will be increasingly felt by citizens. We're gonna be laughing soon, and that's clear. [[Comments from the PD Group]] DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Calm down! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Today... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u156	Conclude, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u157	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr. President. Today, if there is one person in here who laughs - we must admit - it is President Monti, for a variety of reasons, but above all because the Government led by Professor Monti, from 2011 to 2013, is about to lose the primacy of the worst Government of the history of the Republic [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , replaced by the new Monti-a Government or, alas, Conte-a. For these reasons, we will vote against trust: never with the Democratic Party! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Campari exhibits a sign with the words: "Never with PD"]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u158	Colleagues, sign off! CHORO FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Never PD! Never PD! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u161	BERNINI (FI-BP). Never PD! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I agree, never with PD, but not even with the 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senators Airola and Montevecchi]] I think it's mutual. PRESIDENT. - Ladies and gentlemen, a moment of silence, please. BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, it will not be a surprise that Forza Italia is voting against this Government. It cannot be otherwise, for the reasons set out below. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the temptation to congratulate you on your personal undertaking is irresistible: since 8 August, the day of your birthday, you have passed - without turning a corner, without plissing - from a right-wing sovereign government to a left-wing state government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Iwobi]] This perhaps explains the confusion that he generated in Senator Salvini, who, hearing her say that Italy is the country that I love will have thought: Do you want to see that they want to make a government agreement even with Forza Italia? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As I said before, I can guarantee that we of Forza Italia the Government Agreement with the Movimento 5 Stars - I imagine it is mutual, we have said it and we repeat it - we will never do it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And not even with PD (please don't start again with the choirs that waste my time). You see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in homage to the concept of novelty, again, that in your speech, in your very long programmatic statements, you have repeatedly highlighted, and above all in homage to your very new travel companions who have found the desire to sing "Bella ciao" and "Bandiera rosso" at their parties of Unity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] we came to mind a song by a great genius of music, Giorgio Gaber [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] ==References====External links== I don't know if he remembers it, does it more or less like this: I am a new man, so new, so sensitive and altruistic, animalist, environmentalist... I quote freely [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] ; I was also socialist - I should say sovereign - now a little communist, sixty-eighty, always on the right side! [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we learned about you 14 months ago when you presented yourself to us in the House, in the country, with a highly anti-European programme. We were even talking about "Italexit," plan B, mini bond, mini-BOT, you'll remember. There was also talk of direct democracy, the suppression of representative democracy. As some of my colleagues have said, today you are presenting yourself as a vestal of the centrality of Parliament. You are presenting yourself with a highly pro-European programme, although with a capacity to make public spending that will certainly not be appreciated by Europe, so much so that - I see Minister Gualtieri - you have already been put to the notice by Commissioner Dombrovskis, who said to pay attention, because Italy will be a special vigilante. We had no doubt. Do not think that Europe, even if you have voted - and you have done very well - President von der Leyen, can permanently lay red carpets on you; you cannot do too much extradeficit in Europe because then the red carpets never turn into blank cheques. Sooner or later, Europe is asking for reason for the extradeficit, which is a future debt on the skin, shoulders and pockets of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to say - and we want to make it clear at once - that we do not think that this Government is an illegal operation from a constitutional and parliamentary point of view. It's not like the previous government wasn't. We think it is a political abuse because it violates the deep feeling of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Almost 60% of Italians are afraid of this government. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] He is afraid because he knows that, in the face of a budget law that sooner or later will have to lend itself to the harsh laws of arithmetic, the risk is to see the tax still increase, that have already increased in this year of Government, and to see realized what, unfortunately, is being evoked too much not to be almost a certainty, that is, the asset on the assets and assets of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I was saying, you rightly made a beautiful quotation: you mentioned President Saragat, and you spoke about the Republic with a human face. I would like to give you another quote, just as beautiful as it is for me, of a great Father of the Republic, a great constituent Father, great constitutionalist, Constantine Mortati, who says one very important thing that gives the measure of the political abuse that this Government is carrying out: one cannot create fractures between the parliamentary body (we) and the electoral body (people and popular sovereignty). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We cannot create disharmonies between the activities of the elect and the feeling of the people. Your government consists of three losing parties, who lost the election, while those who won stand in the opposition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the "fusible" of the system: the union of two apparatuses does not make a union of peoples. The union of two defeats does not make a victory. Sooner or later we will have to vote and Italy will present its bill of exchange at the discount. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of course I heard yesterday and read your programme statements today: so many things completely different from what you told us 14 months ago and some of the same things. Then we ask ourselves: since you have been at Palazzo Chigi for fourteen months now because you haven't done them yet? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] An example: I absolutely agree on the opportunity to regulate baby seats in kindergartens: it is from what is born the serenity of a family. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you do not have the necessary resources at state and regional level and above all, having 'kill' the fixed-term contract with the decree of dignity, how does it assume the asylum teachers you have transformed into unemployed and permanent? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And when you speak, Prime Minister, of research and innovation, why haven't you done so far? Why didn't you allow our graduates to fulfill their life expectations and projects in Italy, and forced them to emigrate elsewhere? We import immigration, indiscriminate human resources, and export brains. Believe me, the issue of immigration and security is not a center-right ball. Security, the perception of security is a right of freedom for citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a right of freedom which affects, above all, the weaker sections, not us, but the weaker ones that cannot be defended, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. And when she says you open doors or closed doors are the same thing, it's like she says that at her house, when she goes to bed at night, it's the same thing if she leaves the door open or the door closed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's the same thing: whether they enter or not enter is the same thing. That is not exactly the case, Mr President-in-Office. What we would never want is to turn Italy into a refugee camp or a hub of illegal immigration without discrimination. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I see time is running fast. We are the ones who want to give voice to the categories that you have sacrificed and that also this program does not protect. We want to give a voice to traders, craftsmen, professionals, small businessmen and farmers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] To all those and to that party of GDP - which the party that supports it calls the "party of affairs" - which has not been protected, but which produces, gives work, consumes and saves. And with that savings, he buys the state bonds that support our monumental public debt: those are the real heroes we want to protect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are the ones who have taken the field for these reasons and the reasons for remaining in the field now, for the good of Italy, are all there. And that is what we will do, committing ourselves to ensuring growth: freeing the economy, freeing up work and protecting those who have no voice and to whom you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have not given this voice. So to conclude - and I thank the President of the Senate for giving me a little more time - we said that we will vote no to this Government, because we do not believe that this Government was born in the interests of the country. There are 700 seats to share from here to the next few months: a banquet to make envy in Trimalcione. You, gentlemen, who insulted yourselves until recently, electing the insult to an art form, now sit at this banquet together. We don't like this. We think that an opposition like ours, a concrete opposition, a determined opposition, an opposition on the contents must really speak of the interest of the country: not to use it to justify a political and palace operation, albeit legitimate, but contrary to the will of the people. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, a great country, when there is a political crisis or a systemic crisis, votes. Vote! He doesn't do Palace alchemies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But we, as I said, have the reasons to resist in the field and we will resist and we will succeed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And we will be against this government, against measures that are not in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We'll always watch. Let's say no in the interest of the country. Let's say no and it's more than enough: a simple but still no. Long live Forza Italia! Long live Italy! No to this government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u164	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, listening to the speeches made by my fellow Members, I was reminded of a film - I like cinema - from the 1950s by Akira Kurosawa, Rashomon. This film told in an exemplary way how reality could be seen by several actors in a different way; the versions were so conflicting that they questioned the same truth of the fact that happened, historical. Well, I do not hide that, hearing the reconstructions, that of Senator Salvini on all, of the political events that occurred after August 7, I had just the impression of a different vision of reality, I would say a misrepresentation or what you want. In fact, I understand that everyone can have a version, but the historical facts remain. The Italian people (who you mentioned so much), the country, lived unexpectedly a crisis that they did not want, a crisis that they did not expect and, above all, a crisis that was not explained. That's the point. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] The fundamental point is that the explanations of this crisis have not yet arrived. We continue to talk about final acts, institutional deceptions, initiatives that have not been taken, no sayings, but we are never told what the real reason is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] for which it was decided that important measures, which should and should continue, in the interest of the country, have been "off". This government has been extinguished by those same who now cite concepts such as dignity and sophomore. Let's think about the chairs. Senator Salvini said he put the seven ministries on the table: but he left them on the table and kept them tight, he didn't resign. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] There has been talk of trust. The previous Conte Government resigned as a result of a motion of distrust, but the motion of distrust is not only towards the President of the Council, but towards all the Ministers; therefore Salvini distrusted himself, after having collected - this is the term that comes to mind - confidence on the security decree- bis. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Beginini]] He called our speeches of the "compitini"; I do not know if this is or is not a task, but it is the attempt to explain to those who are out of here - who well understood what happened - the irrationality, the irrationality of a Group - and I recognize it, colleagues of the League - with which we worked well. We have all recognized it, let us be clear: this crisis has struck you first, that you were working with us on measures. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is not possible that two days after the trust given on a decree-law that you have never stopped to consider fundamental you have turned off the light; and you have turned it off to all Italians. Now your statements about the future, about the vision of the country, about the country that has to leave. But the country starts again with the acts of responsibility [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] , which take place in the light of agreements that are clear, but on the programme, on issues. It is not an unknown fact to that same country that, in the aftermath of the March 4 elections, a programmatic agreement was concluded and an appeal was shared by all political forces. That's the distinction. You cannot ignore the fact that the Movimento 5 Stars, since always, since it has set foot within this institution, has asked for sharing on themes: not for the Movimento 5 Stars, but for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I thank President Conte for referring to a vision of the environment that starts from the inclusion of the principle of environmental protection in the Constitution, because this constitutes for us the implementation of one of our 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues of the League, it is not wrong to take up your responsibilities courageously. It is also true, as Manzoni said, that courage is either given or cannot be given. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's very true. You have, however, spoken of a forced marriage. You talked about people. You spoke of enemies. And look how important the language you will use from now on. You have considered people who are now working and should work with you, with your constructive opposition, on a new vision of the country, as enemies. He's a vocabulary. President Conte's speech starts with a new language. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And when we talk about humanism again, we are talking about a new mechanism for regulating relations, which must start with this House, which must start with us, which must review the issues, which are fundamental, of the people who remain behind, of those who are waiting with interest for this Government and this country to leave again. You have brought out all the arguments, such as the electoral law, among other things widely voted by you and certainly not by us, as the Movimento 5 Stars has always fought it. Senator Bernini said, never with the Democratic Party. But all Italians know very well that you ruled with the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here are the different versions of reality I was talking about. But there is a limit, which is represented by the historical facts with which we must confront ourselves. There is also some for the Democratic Party, of course, in relation to the fact that our project is not unconditional. You know that. I was present when we were discussing those points and some of the twenty points that make up our programme are indispensable. So make sure you don't run forwards and take inappropriate interviews. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here too, President Conte's words have been very clear with regard to the issue of the stop to drills and the withdrawal of concessions. Woe to overcome the issues, which we have discussed in order to find a shared way, by individual autonomous initiatives that exceed the limits and borders. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Trouble! Mr Perilli (M5S). We'll always watch. We will be the watchmen of that programmatic agreement, to demonstrate our autonomy, our freedom and our independence precisely from what a certain part of Parliament today would like to use instrumentally. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This issue also starts, and I am proud to say so, from the courage of a political force, which has been able to look inside, to make a consultation with democratic methods, putting direct democracy in front of it. This, for us, is not a fact that belongs to the Movimento 5 Stars, but that the Movimento 5 Stars has given itself to export it also to the institutions and more and more. Here we recall the reforms, which have been interrupted, of course, always on an irresponsible part of the Government, but which would have led the country to become increasingly aware. We used it and on that we built this project with you in this sharing. But there was a process, at the end of which we never lost consciousness of being instruments. We have been accused of excessive institutionalisation. We have managed to institutionalise issues such as the environment [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , such as welfare, as the duty of all citizens to receive appropriate health care and to fight against unfair economic systems. And we have brought this method and our ambitions to Europe. Now we want to bury this new rebirth in an absolutely undemocratic sign. We have never been afraid of the vote, colleagues, and you know it. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; We have never been afraid of the vote, but using the vote in an instrumental way and every whim is something quite different from fearing the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The Government is not a switch that turns on and off depending on its own conveniences and personal tornaconti. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] After the drunkenness of votes obtained by Europeans, you believed that the League should or could go to rule alone, and this is not a democratic perspective, because you continue a work that has begun. This is the reasoning that Movimento 5 Stars wants to make pass, and that has passed. We now want to look ahead, we want to build these issues together and we want, as compact as we are, to contribute to the good of the country. The Movimento 5 Star Group expresses confidence in this Government and thanks President Conte for what he is doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Astorre. Congratulations.]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Elections! Elections! Elections!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u166	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u167	RICHETTI (PD). Mr President, this speech on the apotheosis of direct democracy and the warnings from my colleagues' interviews solve some of the issues of my speech. President Conte, after this vote you will also be my President-in-Office of the Council, but you will not have my confidence. It is one of the most difficult days of my political and parliamentary commitment. Having recourse to the absence of a mandate which the Constitution provides for each of us in Article 67 is not a light choice. But I cannot, for consistency with the values of my political militancy and for the sake of the country that we all represent here, vote for the trust of a government born on the basis of convenience and ambiguity. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Even now, the colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars has spoken of the government that you previously chaired as a government that was working well: this is an ambiguity for me unsustainable. I did not assure her of my confidence when she was an esteemed professor of private law who was preparing to become Premier, and I cannot do so today after she handed her signature to this country at the bottom of measures that I call shameful and that have made Italy a less open, less civil, less democratic and less liberal country. You are the President - and I fully respect you - who has put your signature under the security decrees, the condones, the self-defense, the closure of the ports. And when, in this House, Mr Conte, you gave a speech on many aspects that I appreciated in the content of your speech about denouncing the limits of the government action you represented, you have aggravated your position in my eyes. He aggravated it because if Matteo Salvini hadn't pulled the plug, hadn't filed a motion of distrust and opened the crisis, she would still be the Premier he supported today. He denounced very serious dangers and did so because he was distrustful and deprived of parliamentary support. A President-in-Office of the Council worthy of this name would have said those things first and then pulled the plug. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator De Bertoldi]] Mr Conte, if your Vice-President of the Council has not cooperated by not providing the necessary information to your highly appreciated, delicate information in Parliament about the Russian money, you were to report it on the day that you came to this Parliament, and not after taking the pebbles off your shoes because the League tabled the motion of distrust. These are distinctive traits of what the institutions mean. Frankly, President Conte, I do not know how one can interpret today, with what consistency and authoritativeness, the encounter between two political forces - one is mine and the other has all my respect - that only one thing they have said clear to Italy: never one with the other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let me tell you who hasn't used the hashtags without me, and the "grullini", the "pidioti", the "bibbiano", the "piovra". Never, you never find them in my language and attitude. Colleagues, today we had to make another attempt, of another level, to give a Government to this country, an attempt that I have supported in every way, to show the country that this Government was born of courage and generosity, not of fear and cynicism. The Premier himself, standing on the former Government's backs, capibastons who run to secure a position from which to further feed their consent. A new phase, President, required a new Premier, a new phase required authority from the Farnesina, a new phase required an idea of justice different from what I have heard in the last fourteen months; a new phase could not allow the theorist of direct democracy in the heart of Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] These are essential points for me. I won't vote against it. I'll abstain. You won't have my trust, but I don't want to share my vow with that of the League as you have done for the last 14 months. And I will keep to the end, President Conte, a constructive, dialogue and responsible attitude, but I do not trust the ability of the people's lawyer who, when the people change, remains a lawyer. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Matteo Salvini and the Right will always be my opponents. I want to avoid the country having them in the government by beating them in the elections, not by training clumsily with those who allowed them to double their votes. I don't write it on Twitter, I don't throw hashtag, I don't post. I say this in a respectful way in this House and I will not vote for this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FdI and Senator Ronzulli Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u169	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u170	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, so from warrior words we have gone to mild language. The warrior words were words against financial establishment, against fiscal compact, the great international agreements written by lobbyists; they were warrior words against that European stability mechanism that now, with mild language, will make even more a restrictive cage on Italy. Do not tell me that you will change Europe because Europe has already intellectually corrupted you with its deceptions. On March 4, the people of the deep raised their heads. Today, after having fished out the defeats, you throw him back into the depths, because PD is the Italian guarantee of European fanaticism, globalism and Davos man. Brussels, you brought him home. Count Gentiloni in Europe to economic affairs, marked by man however by the hawk Dombrovskis. From the rituals of Brussels comes that Gualtieri who negotiated the fiscal compact, who digested the bail in and the first MES that you now, Mr President, want to reform in an even more restrictive sense, and do not dream of not going through Parliament because I do not allow this to happen. After raising von der Leyen and Christine Lagarde to heaven, he remains only the patron saint of tax evaders under the law, Jean-Claude Juncker. You could put it, perhaps, at the Revenue Agency, so you could continue with the fiscal symmetry for which multinationals do what they want and small entrepreneurs are massacred by tax and banks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And don't tell me you didn't know Juncker's profile. I say this especially to PD. From the Government of Change we entered the Government of the absurd in the sense of Ionesco. You, Count, have earned a part in the comedy "The rhinoceros": those who used to get outraged because the rhinoceros ran around the city doing damage, now they have become themselves the rhinoceros, happy to be. Well, as sovereignists, he became "heurists." You will be content with a flexibility that is only morphine today. The eurozone will not improve if we do not see capital key rule again, if we do not talk about debt monetisation, if we do not think deeply about monetary policy and if we do not set up a European rating agency. My temptation to vote is strong. I will abstain only out of respect for those who, in a hypnosis in good faith, think of the revolution of the clutch. I remain in the trenches of warrior words against neoliberal fanaticism invented in this European Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u171	Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 94, of the Constitution and the first paragraph of Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with appeal to Government no. 165, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Laniece. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Lezzi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Lezzi. (Senator Secretary Pisani Giuseppe and, later, Senator Secretary Tosato make the appeal). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Country, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Cattaneo, Cerno, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Fattori, Fedeolamo, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fedeolmo, Flori, Flori, Ferrara, Di Piazza, Donno, Evangelista, I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote with an appeal on Trust Motion No. 165, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Laniece: [[Senators present 308 Senators voting 307 Majority 152 Favorables 169 Contrars 133 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S, PD, Misto-LEU and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and from the government benches. Many congratulations to the President of the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-148.ana.u172	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 19.02 p.m.
