ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 9 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u4	Mr President, today the decree-law, presented by the Government, arrives in the Chamber to speed up and complete the reconstructions in progress in the territories, in particular in Central Italy, affected by the earthquakes that have followed in recent years in our country. We are discussing today a decree-law on which Parliament has intervened significantly, which the House has added many rules and which, both in the House and in the Senate Commission, has been approved without votes against. This is the further demonstration that we are talking about a useful, necessary and urgent measure that intervenes on such a sensitive way, which directly concerns the life of those who have suffered the earthquake, the loss of their home, often of their work and who today have the right to look with confidence and serenity at their future. We are intervening on the reconstruction of the territories of Marche, Abruzzo, Umbria, Lazio and Ischia, with the aim of simplifying the reconstruction, accelerating it, guaranteeing its quality and, above all, returning to those citizens, together with the home, economic opportunities, work and services. The decree-law tries to give more tools, and better tools, to local authorities, regions and all emergency operators, to rebuild faster and better, preventing discomfort and suffering and to prevent the abandonment of entire territories of our country. In the debate in the Commission, I would like to say that other needs have been highlighted. The Presidents of the affected regions themselves have shown us other needs. This decree is not the first and will not be the last intervention. The debate over the last few months also gives the Government and Parliament the need to put in place further initiatives and resources on many fronts: efficiency of the reconstruction machine; personnel, simplifications. Therefore, this is a useful and necessary decree-law, from which to start to close the emergency phase and respond to needs. Not only that: the discussion these days gives us, and it is the opinion of all, the need to do quickly and well to approve as soon as possible a law on emergencies, which establishes clear and effective lines to intervene when, and unfortunately happens too often, our country suffers natural disasters. A useful decree, therefore, that also poses a more general problem of emergency management in the future, starting from the concrete experience of these years. As I said, Mr President, the decree-law consists of many rules, starting with the one-year extension, until 31 December 2020, of the state of emergency of the territories of central Italy affected by seismic events started on 24 August 2016. It also integrates the rules on design tasks, providing, in order to simplify without jeopardising quality, the use of the lowest price criterion for amounts below the threshold of European relevance above EUR 40,000. Then there are interventions aimed at allowing the use for the reconstruction of personnel of the companies in house of the Region. Article 2 introduces amendments to the rules on private reconstruction on damage assessment and post-sysm agibility. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 specifies that the special commissioner, among the interventions to be carried out on the public heritage, must give priority to the reconstruction of schools. Article 2-a introduces the possibility for a private individual to request variations of up to 30% of the contribution granted for reconstruction, always being within the limits of the grantable contribution. Article 3 lays down provisions to simplify and speed up private reconstruction. At the same time, it provides for the special reconstruction offices to draw up two separate lists in relation to applications for assistance, distinguishing between dwellings and production activities. The same offices are given the task of carrying out sample checks, drawing at least 20% of the questions. Again. Among the interventions to be reported is the extension of the art bonus for the interventions of protection and restoration in Venice and Matera, the extension from three to six years of the duration of the guarantee fund for micro, small and medium enterprises that have suffered damages in Umbria, Marche, Lazio and Abruzzo. In addition, in order to promote work and enterprise, the measure is extended for young entrepreneurs in the Mezzogiorno defined as "Resto al Sud" (remaining in the south), including in the territories affected by the earthquake, providing for an age derogation for the most affected municipalities. Other rules intervene to prevent depopulation, giving rewards to those who move to the municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants. Other interventions are aimed at supporting cultural activities and promoting tourism in those territories. Finally, and I refer to the text of the report in the Commission for the rest, the decree provides for the extension of the IMU exemption, the suspension of loans on inactible buildings and the derogation of the limits of pupils per class in schools. In essence, the decree-law, as supplemented by Parliament, helps people, creates new opportunities for the reconstruction and economic development of the earthquake areas and provides useful tools to help institutions, starting from the municipalities, to cope with the emergency. Everyone's commitment must be to put in place other resources and tools to get out of the emergency and restore hope to the people affected by the earthquake. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u5	Minority speakers, Senators Pazzaglini and Cangini, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u6	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Pazzaglini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u7	Mr President, as a senator representing one of the most affected regions, which alone has twice the damage of the other three regions combined, as a friend and relative of earthquake victims, as the owner of a house that is still in the red zone, I would have appreciated more than anyone else that the enthusiasm of my colleague Mirabelli was founded and that what he said earlier had been reflected in reality. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I am equally satisfied, both for what is in the decree-law and also and especially for what is not there. Then it is true that the Lega Group, in the House, did not vote against but abstained, but this was determined by the fact that even if there had been only one paragraph of a single article in favour of the earthquake victims, our sense of responsibility would have prevented us from ruling against it. So I would like this fact, true, of which we claim the positive and proactive nature, not to be used to support a thesis that has no response in practice. Everything I have just pointed out was also possible in the hearings held both in the Chamber and in the Senate, here in a limited number but for importance and quality of the same, and especially for the problems highlighted, no less important than those held in the Chamber. Among those we have auditioned are representatives of the technical professions. I immediately return a statement from the engineer Conti, who declared himself particularly dissatisfied with this decree for all the problems that he did not solve, but also for some new problems that he created. In tune with the engineer Conti, although separately from him, the mayor of Norcia, coordinator of the mayors of the crater for the ANCI, declared the same dissatisfaction both as contained in the decree-law, for example the extraordinary programs of reconstruction that, in his opinion, worsen the current situation (thesis reiterated in different terms, but with the same substance, also by the engineer Spuri, responsible for the special office reconstruction for the Marche Region), but also for what is not disciplined, therefore again for what is missing. Specifically, everyone has highlighted the impossibility of modifying the shapes of the buildings to be rebuilt. This is a problem that has two consequences: a substantial one, for the fact that, however, not going to change the silhouette, one risks having to reconstruct with problems related precisely to types of building that at this time would no longer be allowed; both because, not allowing the modification of the silhouette, one should replicate also the errors, those that were often called "eco-monsters," that fortunately in our areas are numerically very limited. However, those buildings, built in the seventies, years in which there was evidently less sensitivity than today, should be rebuilt identical to what they were before. It is obvious that it is absurd: we spend public money to do this, instead of improving the existing and the architectural quality of the building, making it more consistent with areas of high value. Let's not forget that many of these municipalities are within national parks, are recognized as one of the most beautiful villages in Italy, have the orange flag of the Touring Club and however have the advantage of being often medieval villages. We respond to situations of contempt that we could have solved by rebuilding; I remember that often it is buildings that have even been demolished and we make them redo as they were. Again with regard to unsolved problems, I highlight three types of different problems, but in the reconstruction they will have equal importance: that of the collabent buildings, so there is even the paradox that outside the crater you can intervene and inside the crater no; that of the appliances, which inexplicably are not financed (I cannot understand why, if I built a garage separated from the main house and was damaged by the earthquake, it cannot rebuild); finally, that of the buildings damaged by the earthquake of 1997, so there is still a classification of eligibility for financing, obviously not exhausted, so the earthquake and seismic swarm of 2016 have aggravated the situation but we do not allow eligibility for financing. Further problem contained in the decree-law is that relating to the expropriation of SAE areas: SAE areas have been created in emergency with the aim of restoring the status of the places once the emergency is over. That is why we have proceeded, not with expropriation, but with employment. To transfer now the property of the SAE areas and therefore of the housing solutions on them realized to the Municipalities, means to load the Municipalities of a burden that will be impossible to face. So the government with this measure removes a problem to transfer it on the shoulders of the municipalities. It is not the first time that this is done, because the last Civil Protection order relating to earthquakes (order 614) that regulates the CAS (Contribution of autonomous accommodation) practically does the same thing: the Government takes away the burden, partially or in full, of the CAS and charges it in full on the shoulders of the earthquake victims. But I'll say better about that later. The head of the special office reconstruction Marche, the engineer Spuri, points out that this decree will create problems for public works, for private construction and for staff. He gave us a very significant figure, in my opinion, to understand how the reconstruction is going wrong: at the moment only 75 public works have been completed, which, by value, represent one percent of the total. In more than three years, which should have been those to set the way to deal with the earthquake, the ones in which there was more desire to do, the more desire to do quickly and well, in which everyone had to be more stimulated to speed up the times, only one percent of public works was realized. A further figure has been highlighted: it takes four years to carry out a public work of one million euros. Four years for a banal public work is an enormity, if we consider that there will be interventions even from some tens of millions of euros. I quote other problems, which have been created or have not been solved. I am referring to those relating to the sole parties responsible for the proceedings. Twenty years ago, for the management of the earthquake in Marche and Umbria of 1997, it was agreed to be able to identify as responsible for the procedure an external technician, hired perhaps for a fixed time or even with a convention. This is because they were very small Municipalities, which do not have a sufficient number of technicians in the organic plan for the many works to be carried out. At the time, the problem was solved by using a little common sense. Common sense, however, clearly lacks today, because today is prevalent what is established by the National Anti-Corruption Authority (ANAC), that is to say to meet objectives that have nothing to do with reconstruction and therefore, in implementation precisely of what is foreseen for ANAC, it is still not possible to appoint a person responsible for the external procedure. As I said before, the decree-law under consideration contains paradoxes and I highlight one, relating to "Resto al Sud," a measure that we obviously appreciate. We do not really know what effect it will have, but, as I said before, everything that could improve the situation is welcome and therefore we welcome the measure "Stay in the South" as well. It was decided that, by way of derogation from the criteria of the measure itself, derogations from age limits could also be provided for the municipalities most affected. Then, in order to determine which municipalities are the most damaged, a criterion is used, that is that of AEDES cards (Agibility and damage in seismic emergency) with result E, which, in some cases, in the most damaged municipalities, instead, could have a lower response. In fact, given the very large number of damaged buildings in the destroyed municipalities, at the beginning it was chosen for a different procedure and, instead of making the AEDES card, it was carried out by making a FAST card (Manufactured for post-earthquake synthetic agibility), which had as possible only the usability or non-usability of the buildings. A further paradox lies in the fact that in the meantime a deadline has been introduced for the presentation of AEDES cards, but in the most damaged municipalities the possibility of presenting this card has been waived, allowing the owners to deposit the AEDES card at the presentation of the project. The damaged municipalities have had many perimeter areas, which will have to be rebuilt, subject to the preparation of an implementation plan. I think, if I remember correctly, that only four implementation plans have started the design process. The dozens and dozens of plans of implementation of the areas destroyed by the earthquake have not yet begun the process of planning the implementation plan. So, Mr President, even more so, they cannot have the result of E. So even what could go well with the decree-law could not be done, just as it happens with the notifications to the co-owners. In our mountain realities, very often there have been no successions and therefore it happens that a single real estate unit is also in co-ownership of 30 different subjects. Predicting the possibility of starting the intervention without involving them all was an excellent choice, which I shared and which we had proposed too, but obliging the notification by registered or through PEC to all co-owners, when they are often impossible to achieve, means depriving of effectiveness one of the few useful things contained in this decree-law. There is, of course, much more to be done, which will be distorted in the debate, and so I would like to thank all my colleagues for their attention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u8	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cangini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u9	Mr President, on 9 September, in calling for confidence, the President-in-Office of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, said that the post-seismic reconstruction of central Italy would be the priority of his Government. We took good that commitment, remembering that the same Giuseppe Conte, under the same conditions as President of the Council charged, in front of the same Chambers, a year earlier, had neglected - let's say - to deal with the fate of the earthquake victims of central Italy. It seemed like a step forward. Of course, in this case too, the words were not followed by appreciable and appreciable facts consistent with the solemnity of the commitment made in the institutional context in front of the elected of the people. He testifies to this, among many other things, an eloquent fact. When he was fired by the Government, the so-called earthquake decree consisted of only nine articles, and largely oriented towards mere extensions of payment deadlines. All necessary measures, of course, but largely insufficient, to the point of accrediting the idea that this Government had the objective of containing the earthquake problem rather than solving it. No substantial change of pace, no sensitive priorities. However, since from evil sometimes the good arises, during the passage of conversion of the decree-law to the Chamber of Deputies (unfortunately not to the Senate, which was not put in the condition to intervene on the provision), the articles, from 9 that were, have become 50. Some 15 amendments by Mr Forza Italia have been accepted, and we are naturally pleased about that. These amendments are agreed with the territories, the mayors of the crater and the ANCI. I must say, intellectually speaking, that the most significant and incisive of the many amendments we have tabled have not been accepted. Well, of course, long-awaited measures have passed, such as those on single purchasing power stations, on the increase of contributions in the event of demolition and reconstruction of structures with very thick masonry, on the extension of the payments of loans, bills, contributions, taxes and taxes, on the extension of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, on the extension to the earthquake-stricken territories of the measures in favour of those who want to invest in new activities in South Italy. The text also incorporates some hypotheses of overcoming the problems related to the reconstruction of demolished buildings or to be demolished, but on this issue, as on many others, it would have been expected more decision and simplification capacity. This applies to many other points, such as municipal secretaries. It is expected - and it is a good thing - that small municipalities will be able to avail themselves of the superior secretaries, but it is absurd that the charges should be charged on the budgets of the same municipalities and in the framework of the quotas reserved for new recruitments. Basically, the state says: it is necessary to integrate the municipal secretaries, but I do not do it, you do it on your behalf. It's not exactly a support. It's a barrel dump. The extension of contracts over thirty-six months for fixed-term staff was positive, but apart from the fact that the staff was largely insufficient in relation to the huge task to be carried out (to evaluate and dismiss tens of thousands of practices), the contracts in question would expire in the middle of next year and the only solution identified was to provide for new contracts through the interim agencies. It would have been better, from our point of view, to start a serious confrontation with the European Union, because we do not believe it is impossible to explain that, over three years, it is not reasonable for the reconstruction of central Italy to be completed and that, therefore, it is foolish to squander this heritage of knowledge and professionalism by creating new contracts, rather than renewing those in existence. It is a very bad thing that we did not agree to simplify the code of public contracts with regard to trusts under the Community threshold, which would have allowed the start of work through procedures negotiated with companies extracted from the list of prefectures. The objective, therefore, would have been to unlock millions of euros firm, in line with principles that are obviously shared as those of transparency and legality. There is also a lack of procedures for monitoring the progress of work and payment to businesses (the same companies which, especially the smallest, are unable to get paid for the few jobs already started). But above all, in our opinion, there is no introduction of the Special Economic Zone, which would have been the only real measure able to give a future perspective to families and companies, otherwise condemned to live in a deserted territory economically and fatally destined for depopulation. The truth, colleagues, is that, in the more than three and a half years since the first shock, nothing significant has been done to give a future to the almost 50,000 families that still live outside their homes, far from their roots and their economic activities, and to the 600,000 Italians who live within the crater and reside in the 140 municipalities concerned. They are said to be common at risk of depopulation. It is not a risk, we must not be hypocrites and we cannot hide the reality: it is a certainty, the depopulation; it is a certainty at national level. The phenomenon has been known for years, but it is clear that, in earthquakes that have no prospect of the future, depopulation will be a phenomenon with which we will have to deal fatally. It is not only the destiny of tens of thousands of families - and that would be enough - but rather a distraction to national identity: Italy is the country of small municipalities, historical villages, internal areas; this is the identity element. The most glorious period in our country history was that of city municipalities. The small municipalities that depopulate represent the Italy that dies. The problem is not the small municipalities, but the nation. And we cannot resign ourselves to all this, also because this would mean a further exposure of our country to the risk landslides, avalanches, floods. In fact, it is evident that a territory without human presence is fatally destined to be disposed of. Colleagues, a state worthy of this name does not abandon to its fate hundreds of thousands of citizens who have had the sole fault of being struck by a misfortune. Honestly, I wonder whether this Government and this majority realize that a state which is fugitive about such a living and highly symbolic issue is a State which betrays the social contract, that implicit pact between citizens and institutions by which citizens renounce part of their freedoms and their will in exchange for protection. If protection fails, if the State denounces that pact, trust in the institutions disappears and we are all delegitimized. The solution, in our opinion, would have been simple but drastic: a change of cultural paradigm. It would be necessary to move from the logic of suspicion to the principle of responsibility, from the ordinary bureaucratic approach to exceptional and extraordinary intervention, as exceptional and extraordinary is an earthquake. If you had applied these trivial and obvious principles of liberal common sense, we could have shared both the method and the merit of this decree-law. You didn't do it because those Jacobine norms that you should have refuted you wrote them yourself. It was a pity because it is an indication of poor sensitivity to the real needs of the country and of poor self-criticism; poor sensitivity that also comes out of the fact that still has not been evaluated the opportunity to write a single text for emergencies and reconstructions in a fragile country like ours, more than others exposed to the risk of natural disasters. Mr President, the story is as follows: the Renzi government spoke a lot about the earthquake and did nothing; the Gentiloni government did not speak and did not; the two party leaders who then went to form the next Government, Luigi Di Maio and Matteo Salvini, but that government, Count I, settled perfectly in a line of continuity with the governments of the Democratic Party that had preceded it. The Count II Government has done something: timid steps in the right direction, but largely insufficient. We cannot resign ourselves to this inertia, which is the result of our credibility and the respect we owe to the many mayors, who in turn have been appalled, who have put their own responsibilities on the back, and in some cases, as in the case of Mayor Nico Alemanno of Norcia, have been prosecuted for this by the judiciary. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u11	Mr President, we are looking at yet another measure which reminds me of the typical expression, among other things quite Umbria, Taoiseach and mouthfuls. In fact, the issues related to the earthquake of 2016 and subsequent ones were dealt with in a bite and a bite. We have discussed various measures, moreover always decrees-laws, therefore always characterized by urgency, and the problems have been highlighted from the beginning, for the simple reason that, unfortunately, our country has a wide experience in the matter of earthquake and reconstruction; however there was much deafness before being able to identify the issues and solve them one piece at a time. Even today, for example, there are missing pieces. It was necessary to resolve some of the issues highlighted by the minority rapporteurs, which I believe should be highlighted. As a general rule, we do not believe that the issues relating to the depopulation of the territory and the specific emergency of the areas where there are still rubble are being resolved. But even more serious is the fact that a number of amendments continue not to be taken into account, so the work done in the House has not been integrated. Briefly, the question of the heavy pay envelope would have been relevant, because it was an instrument through which the situation of those who made the payments could be rebalanced; the question of the urban free zone, because it was necessary to extend its time period, and the question of the ZES, the special economic zone, already described by the minority rapporteurs, which concerns in particular the creation, for the municipalities affected in the central area of Italy, of a special economic zone, in which to foresee a series of advantages and incentives from the economic point of view, of taxes and of access. It strikes us that these requests are not accepted, because they, as always, do not spring from the head of some member of the minority of this Assembly or of that of the Chamber; they are always and in any case subject to the categories and operators, that is, from those who are on the field and see, even today, the rubble on the street and an earthquake faced with bites and bites. There is never the opening needed to put a point. Frankly I believe that, if there had not been elections in Umbria, most likely the decree-law, in haste and fury, three days before, would not have been done. That's the truth. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] And being able to improve it today, it has not been done as needed, so I assume that, in six or seven months, always on the push of categories or mayors, we will have to lose our hands for the umpteenth time. I have no memory of such a lengthy situation from a legislative point of view. When, unfortunately, there were other earthquakes, the problem was not the regulatory one, but the money. Here we are faced with the absurd contribution, there are the funds, but the structure identified is such that - especially in the context of the demands made by the private - reconstruction does not go. It does not go on for fear of responsibility; it does not go on for the problem of bureaucracy and because it is intertwined with inefficiency. I believe, then, that this is the great reflection underlying the measure we are debating, and I believe that it is the political responsibility of all - including the forces that govern the regions - to put a definitive point in order not to find us, in six months' time, another bite or a bite to face. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the earthquake in Central Italy and all the earthquakes in recent years, not only the earthquake in 2016 which is at the heart of this measure. I have heard of depopulation of the internal areas, but it is a well-known serious issue that has existed and continues for years, also because of the problems that certain territories have had in managing the deep employment crisis. They are all choices resulting from political situations that for decades, unfortunately, have never faced and solved the systemic problems, first of all the lack of infrastructure fundamental to the birth and development of the same territories. We are talking about territories long left in a state of isolation, which have come to a pre-sysm condition already of great difficulty, exacerbated even more by the problems that result in a natural disaster. I am referring to many areas of Italy affected by earthquakes; in particular I am talking about my area, Central Italy, the earthquake of 2016, the largest crater ever seen in Italy, which has affected many Regions and many Municipalities of Abruzzo, Lazio, Umbria, Marche. These are areas I know very well because I live there: the South Marches, the Piceno, the area from which I come. Knowing those territories in depth, I can testify that one of the main problems was the lack of infrastructure or infrastructure that had never been sufficiently developed. I have heard a lot of criticism from the minority rapporteurs. Let's start with the analysis of the facts to understand the problems of Italy in general and in particular of the areas affected by the earthquake. Very often I hear about the problems related to the inefficiency of our system; I want to remind you that the first natural disaster that Italy has to face is bureaucracy: a bureaucracy created by lacked solutions, by choices never made in many years; daily challenges that make the procedures complex, starting from the problems of corruption that have made the rules on public procurement increasingly complex. Rules that have further blocked reconstruction. Perhaps we should also reiterate the financial problems, because if the solution to everyday problems is already difficult with a budget that is among the worst in Europe, surely it is even more so in emergency situations, as are natural disasters. Systems not suitable for the ordinary, let alone they can be good for the extraordinary of what has become today the largest construction site in Europe. It is precisely here that we see the machinosity of the procedures of a complex and highly articulated system. It is very difficult to give solutions to those who do not have the time or the patience to wait, because we speak not of ordinary management, favors or secondary problems, but of the need to rebuild the houses and the companies collapsed for the earthquake, fruit of sacrifices of entire generations, which today are to be rebuilt immediately. We know very well how this can be - indeed, it is certainly difficult. We are talking about problems created in twenty to thirty years of bad political management. Today those who recommend us more efficiency, more development, cuts, are the same who have created these conditions in twenty-thirty years: a policy that has always tangled on itself, that has never given solutions to these problems of which we are certainly not responsible, being here for a short time. We intervene today, among the rubble of the earthquake, but above all among the rubble of a bureaucracy that has blocked Italy in all its aspects, in all its sources. We've got to get out of here. The first - the rubble of the earthquake - hit the territories; the others - those of the bureaucracy - hit the entire nation. Clearly the solution is complex and not of instantaneous solution. The immediate solutions are not easy to find, you want to say that you did not do this or this one. We need to find resources by cutting them out of the budget; we have also put in the decree-law for post-seism reconstruction the money recovered from the House and Senate with the cuts to the waste of politics. It is therefore necessary to choose among the priorities of the problems to be solved, a little at a time, with determination and diligence, without stopping, until we finally manage to evolve our country. The decree-law at our examination acts precisely in this direction. It is certainly an important step towards relaunching, a concrete step towards normality with measures emerged from the synthesis of the demands of citizens, local authorities, technicians and all the interlocutors that we have heard, obviously taking into account the economic possibilities that we are currently experiencing and also the limits of the bureaucracy that we have inherited. So the solutions are not all those expected, but the ones possible, the ones that could be done immediately. Moreover, I would like to remind you that the decree-law at our examination was born in the absence of a framework law, as was previously pointed out by the minority rapporteur, who was able to manage emergency situations and natural disasters. Every time we reprogram new systems and new provisions that are invented from time to time and evolve, without having a law of reference, to whose formation we will work, to give a structural solution to a country really beautiful and rich, but also very fragile, with historical buildings and sack walls. Such solutions must be found with an ad hoc law, which no one has ever done. We start from here and start from these tools. It is our firm intention to try to put such a rule into order and it will be one of our next commitments to make our nation better. This is also why many positive measures are included in the measure for the areas affected by the earthquake, many improvement solutions, probably not a decisive provision. The complexity of the problem is known too well, unfortunately, also by those who live in the territories affected by the earthquake of ten years ago, that of L'Aquila, which in this case we are going to solve. Many good advice has never been implemented, not since today, but for ten years now. We take note then of the work that we must do concretely in the areas that must be reborn. I would like to mention some improvements to this proposal; I am thinking of those which have refined legislation, the extension of the suspension of loans granted to local authorities by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti for the whole of 2020-2021, the simplification of procedures for removing and managing rubble, the extension from three to six years of the duration of the intervention of the Guarantee Fund in favour of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (including those in the agro-food sector that have suffered damage), the possibility given to the Commissioner to refer to 30 June 2020 the final deadline for the presentation of documentation on reconstruction for minor damage, the extension to the municipalities of Central Italy affected by the earthquake of measures relating to the so-called Rest to the South for young entrepreneurs (which are also valid for this crater), the strengthening of the quality and quantity of staff endowments of the structures involved in the reconstruction. On these and further aspects, however, will later speak other colleagues, I would like to emphasize that in addition to these measures certainly necessary, it must be understood that the reconstruction of the Centre of Italy and the South of the Marches will have a chance of success only by starting the construction and strengthening of the infrastructures able to connect worthily these areas, especially the hinterland, with the rest of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Many missing activities and structures, starting from the modernization of the main Adriatic road artery, the A14, which also in these days is blocked by damages resulting from lacked redevelopment and repair, passing through an efficient rail transport, always on the Adriatic coast for the municipalities of Marche and the South of Abruzzo. We must also think of a direct connection between the Tyrrhenian Sea and the Adriatic, a railway line that can quickly connect also the territories of the affected areas, the central ones, which are not reachable. How can one think of development if a territory is not reachable to make economy, business and tourism? This is a series of activities that has been promised for centuries. When I speak of the Railway of the two seas, I speak of a promise of 1903; what do we want to talk about? The earthquake is yet another catastrophe that has been added to those that these territories already lived, without adequate infrastructure and without foundations that can organize the productive sectors, such as trade, industry, agro-food and tourism. It is therefore necessary to strengthen these communities with an effective system, with an infrastructure network valid and suitable for our century, that can bridge the logistic gap that has always characterized this area of Central Italy. President, in conclusion, I hope that in this effort there may be the joint and aggregate work of all people and institutional figures, who must not speak only out of political opposition, but must think about solving the problems of the country. This is the commitment that my group and I have made and which I hope we will all make together. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u14	Mr President, the text submitted by the other branch of Parliament is still inadequate as a whole compared to the inevitable need to provide effective and consistent responses to the areas affected by the 2016 earthquake. It represents, in fact, another decree approved by the Chamber that arrives here at the Senate only for a mere ratification that will not allow us to insert any norm, even at zero cost, that would have facilitated even a rapid reconstruction. President. - Unfortunately, this is an increasingly abused practice on the part of this Government, and in fact it has produced a reform of our Constitution by inserting a de facto monocameralism. We of the Brothers of Italy believe that this situation is unacceptable because it undermines the prerogatives of all parliamentarians, right and left, and that it prevents these classrooms from becoming a place of confrontation and discussion from which the measures should arise. It is the mirror of this majority, divided within it and unable to find a point of synthesis and hoping to hide its weakness by gagging the entire Parliament. We had hoped that with this new decree-law, so-called earthquake, on the earthquake that hit central Italy we could start the reconstruction addressing the many problems that remain open. On the other hand, this measure does not address the many issues which, as I said, remain of an emerging nature. The consequences of the complex reconstruction procedures will therefore be even more serious, which will not start and will not even give any solution to the regulatory issues which, as I said before, would not have involved any disbursement of money. It has been three and a half years since these events took place and there is no doubt, in this regard, that reconstruction operations are unfortunately still clearly delayed. I believe that all of us and all those who come from these territories had the hope that this would be the dawn of reconstruction; instead, this dawn of a new beginning is more and more like the sunset of the hope that we have cultivated in recent years, first of all for the unfortunate populations affected by the earthquake that for us legislators and representatives of the institutions, that we are obviously not able to be ready, cohesive and fast compared to the needs of such urgent cases, as the very serious seismic events require, for the restoration of normal conditions. We thought it was actually dawn because we finally thought that both the previous government and the current government would deal with this earthquake in a more serious way and we thought, in reality, that this government would have the courage and the competence to do so in an organic way, as it was willing to listen to the territories because, President, it was indeed a very long time, but above all because there had been many opportunities to deepen the matter. In fact, we discussed six decrees; we divided and confronted them and listened to the same things from the territories. We talked about this in occasion of the earthquake decree of Gentiloni Silveri in the last legislature, of the decree milleproroghe, of the decree for the bridge of Genoa, of the unblockingantieri and also of the law of budget last year. We imagined that a season of confrontation could also be opened with us of oppositions to draw up a text that finally represented the hope of the departure of this reconstruction which, as has been widely remembered also by the representatives of the majority, is firm to ridiculous percentages that turn around 3-5 percent. After three and a half years it would actually seem little. Instead, we had not dealt with the demands of the politics, the catwalks and the electoral campaign of the Government in Umbria, nor with the despair of the forces of the Government and the will to think that a decree-law, even if empty, still represents a moment of interest on the part of the majority on the subject in order to help the agonizing alliance of Government to obtain a better result than that achieved so far. So, however, you did not achieve the objective and we also lost, unfortunately, because we found ourselves faced with a decree-law, as I said earlier, completely empty that, will be useless for these populations. In the parliamentary passage to the Chamber we had asked the Government and also the same majority to inaugurate a season of confrontation with all the interested parties, in order to tackle in an organic way the reconstruction, but above all that through our amendments the requests coming from the territory were accepted. Instead, the attitude of the majority to complete closure, with the rejection of all our proposals, prevented the adoption of a decree-law aimed at solving problems, rather than moving them forward over time. As I have already pointed out in the course of the Commission's examination, we would certainly have expected something more significant and in this respect, among the many shortcomings of the measure, the lack of a genuine and effective comparison with the parties concerned can be seen. On the part of the Brothers of Italy there has been no obstructionism: the accusations that have been made to us by the majority in these days are laughable and represent an excuse behind which to hide the bitter truth of an empty decree-resolutionary law. What is the point, at this point, of appointing local representatives if their comments are not taken into account in the measure? What about audit interventions? They were particularly significant and important, especially in terms of criticality. It seems serious and absurd, therefore, that this majority has decided to armor the measure already fired by the House, excluding any improvements here at Palazzo Madama. The majority would do well to reflect on their behavior, which in fact is a great mockery. The emergency measure in question stems from this finding of non-comparison with the parties and, starting from a clearly inadequate initial approach, in the course of the examination at the other branch of Parliament has been enriched by numerous forecasts which have tried to increase its scope and to widen its scope. Some of these, for example, such as those relating to school buildings or the problems relating to the removal of rubble, have also been introduced thanks to the contribution of the majority: this does not remove, however, that we are still far from ensuring the level of intervention necessary in the face of the problems under consideration. There is once again a need for further measures to be taken to simplify procedures and remedy the shortage of staff which inevitably undermines the effectiveness of administrative action. In this case, that is, we put even more bureaucracy. I would add that the choice of preference for the award criterion of the maximum reduction for the assignment of design and services of architecture, engineering and other technical services, such as urban planning, seems absolutely not to be acceptable because this criterion is clearly dysfunctional compared to trusts that in order to be carried out in an appropriate way demand performances of high professional quality and certainly not of those who make a lower price. The same applies to the amendments introduced by Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which intervenes in matters of public and private reconstruction discipline. Although we can understand the inspiring reasons for the forecast, we certainly believe that the implementation of the forecast is unrealistic, in particular in the part where it is expected that the other co-owners or legitimate subjects are notified by registered letter, with receipt of return, or by e-mail. Experience, for those who live there, has shown several times that in small local realities, such as those affected by the seismic events in question, property is often shared among a multiplicity of subjects, some of which, sometimes untraceable, are actually not found. But that's not what happened. The majority and the government, once again, have been deaf to any attempt at correction and instead preferred to continue in the wrong direction, as we heard in the Commission from the mayors of Norcia and Visso and from the networks of the technical professions. The procedural framework under consideration, however, continues, as I said, to be extremely complex. These territories need to have a perspective. They need not speed up reconstruction, but a concrete policy. It is even more serious that the issue of hydrogeological failure has completely disappeared from this Government's agenda. Sorry to have to repeat, but this majority goes to squander the important resources to help the territory and instead continues to give it for the income of citizenship. This provision is as empty as your government action; it is useless, like the months that are passing without strategic choices being made for the future of Italy. For the umpteenth time, you have mocked the Italians, while it was enough very little to find a synthesis between the majority and the opposition and to actually try to give a clear answer to these people who have been waiting for too many years. For this reconstruction we are only 3%. So, the government has failed completely with this decree. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u15	I warn colleagues that for a malfunction of the microphones at the last minute of the surgery you will not see the microphone light flashing. So when the Presidency rings the bell, there will only be one minute left, although you will not see the flashing of the light on the microphone. Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are starting the debate in this House on the conversion of a decree-law that impacts heavily tested territories that have suffered and suffer, and that it is the duty of all of us, each of us in our roles and with our own responsibilities, to support, support and assist. The institutions and the state have the moral duty, even before legal, to be in a subsidiary way alongside the territories of the country in difficulty. They must do so in the moments of the most serious and profound emergency and must do so, in perspective, in the difficult months and years following sudden events, but with lasting consequences. Precisely on this relationship with time, the time of the emergency and that of the return to normality, the time of action and that of accelerating and completing, it is necessary to spend a first reflection. We are about to convert to law, Mr President, a decree-law which contains urgent provisions for the acceleration and completion of the reconstructions in progress in the territories affected by seismic events. It is not unheard of, Mr President: anyone who has had the honour of being an administrator knows that public policies, public intervention, especially when it must be taken with caution on a very complex issue such as post-seismic reconstruction, cannot be fast, but it must be declined with the right time, with adjustments of course and a work of chisel. It is not unheard of that we return to this issue and try again and again for our fellow citizens in difficulty; citizens who should - indeed should - be at the top of the list of priorities on which to intervene. What is unheard of is the method by which action is taken. What is unheard of is that it is as an emerging reconstruction that comes from an emergency, but must be treated with structural methods and instruments. If everything is an emergency, we risk not considering any more emergency; and if nothing is emergency, if not in words, then we are faced with interventions such as the one initially proposed by the Government, which within the framework of its prerogatives hoped, or believed, to be able to resolve everything with a few articles, some extension and a facade intervention, that once again could not change the fate of the territories to be rebuilt, of the people living them, of the enterprises that make them alive. The management of the post-earthquake, of reconstruction, is not an easy thing. It is one of those interventions that no politician would like to develop and that no citizen should be in a position to live. To act superficially, not to say sloppy, is what no one should afford. The hope is that the government did not want to do so. But that is certainly the impression. If what was outlined by the Government was certainly not enough, we cannot say that it is as far as the other branch of Parliament and this House are concerned. However, perhaps because of the greater realism that characterizes the Chambers, perhaps because the dialectic with a constructive opposition has inevitably led to put hand to what was not going and to integrate at least partially what was lacking, today we are faced with an improved text but that is still not enough. It is not because nothing can give to those who have lost much or everything they no longer have; It is not because, as I have said, there is a structural problem of method whereby in this country any matter is emergency and therefore, in the end, nothing is emergency and nothing is ordinary. It is not because, as much as the oppositions have worked, the working conditions and the vision of this majority remain limited and limiting and this has consequences on how much our Parliament can lay off. So, without prejudice to the many extensions - which are necessary for charity - we continue not to give real and concrete answers to the housing emergency and the associated risk of depopulation with their impact on work and enterprise. We continue - indeed, continue - not to affect with the support of the agricultural world and the breeding, that in the territories affected by the earthquake can constitute a precious opportunity for the rebirth, but that this Government never takes too much into consideration. Those who work and create jobs, Mr President, deserve more consideration and not just announcements. It deserves to be addressed with the proper method, so as to avoid confusion and superficiality. It is the risk that has been realized with the approach of the Government, which, once again, has put in this decree the most disparate themes, addressing them all superficially, from contributions to the Municipalities to incentives to enterprises, from the removal of materials to contractual flexibility. The theme of the management of territories after emergent events is too serious to be at heart to all of us; we talk about the lives of our fellow citizens, we talk about homes, places of work, schools, places of aggregation, parishes: we talk about the heart of our country. For this reason the work and commitment of the oppositions, especially those responsible, cannot and does not want to be superficial. We have worked and will work in this direction, and we demand that the Government and the majority also do the same on the so serious subject of the post-earthquake, as well as on the many serious events that too often come upon our cities and our campaigns. Sending back information, hiding, promising resources that do not arrive, is certainly not the road that leads to leave this superficiality behind: it is instead the path that leads to an increasingly marked distance from the real country. We live that country, our country, every day. It's time for you to do it too. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u17	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, on the earthquake decree, armored here in the Senate, we start from the beginning. It was approved by the Council of Ministers on 21 October, a Monday that preceded the regional elections in Umbria by six days, a rather suspicious timing. In fact, the decree was used as an electoral spot, flagred as a real change of pace for reconstruction. I remember well the words spoken by Prime Minister Conte, the Government of Conte bis, in those days in the lands of San Francesco: in this decree there are many measures including those for the simplification and acceleration of the private reconstruction of Central Italy. This is the decree that was missing. We're finally turning this around. I remember then the words of the governor of the Ceriscioli Marches who, in relation to the self-certification introduced in those days, said that there would be a great change of pace in the reconstruction. It is a pity that the measure has not been concerted with those who live, manage and operate in the largest construction site in Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There was no preliminary comparison with the mayors, no comparison with the networks of technical professions that represent thousands and thousands of engineers, architects, geometries and geologists who for three and a half years have been operating in Central Italy, often working, them and their collaborators - who of course pay - to jump and with monstrous delays in the perception of compensation. The measure, as we wanted to show, has turned into the umpteenth failure of the yellow-fuchsia government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Other than acceleration and completion of the reconstruction: first because in Umbria the president is not Mr. Bianconi but is Donatella Tesei because the Umbrians did not get embroiled by a few articles of law, second because the decree, started with 9 articles and inflated up to 50 after the work of the House, not only was it completely upset but disappointed the expectations of the territories against which the League always sets itself a position of listening and dialogue. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Always the Governor of the Marche, a little more than a month after his enthusiastic statements, said that the decree is useless and must be modified. During the short series of hearings that here in the Senate the League asked and obtained, we recorded from the mayors and professionals of the Regions a lot of criticism. I quote only what the director of the Special Office for the Reconstruction of the Marches, representing the four Regions, said: corrective measures are needed or, otherwise, there is a real risk of total paralysis in the reconstruction. I repeat what he said, not a politician, but a technician who knows the life, death and miracles of Decree-Law 189 of 2016 and the successive orders of the commissioners: corrective measures are necessary, otherwise there is the concrete risk of a total paralysis of the reconstruction. Here are the reasons: self-certification in private reconstruction, as we wanted to show, is a flop. You wanted to download to the professionals the urban and building certification of the buildings, making them also take criminal risks: big mistake. The changes made to the House then introduce, every two times three (i.e. always), the opinion of the Regional Conference for the repair and reconstruction of the inaccessible or destroyed buildings. So you gave birth to a monster, a new funnel that will lead to paralysis. We can safely say that it has once again won the bureaucracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No extension of recruitment and no increase in quota for the staff of municipalities and regional school offices. Yet a further increase was essential, in addition to the 200 units introduced by us in the unblocking works, in order to make effective the forecast, always introduced by the League in the latter measure, that the municipalities can become protagonists of the reconstruction, carrying out directly the investigation of the private reconstruction interventions: another failure on the public reconstruction that is still on the stake. No turning points. Moreover, by introducing the concept of priority for the reconstruction of school buildings and imposing the reconstruction on site, if located in the historical centers, you have sown the panic, still not dissolved - I repeat - between mayors and presidents of the Province, who in recent years have decided and started the iter for the relocation of the complexes, identifying other areas, buying them, entrusting projects and supporting costs. What about the 41 new articles introduced into the House? I mention only two which deserve attention: the first is the suspension of the increase in toll rates on the A24 and A25 motorways, which is acceptable because it has the aim of mitigating the charges on the largely earthquake-stricken users. But we would have expected - and I address Mr Castaldi, who is also from Abruzzo - a suspension of the payment of part of the concession fee, corresponding to the shortfalls in revenue due to the suspension of the tariff increases. Instead you have decided to suspend the payment of the full consideration of the concession for two years, for an amount of more than 110 million euros. I would say a nice gift from the majority to the dealership; a nice gift, especially if confirmed and authorized by that part of the majority that normally shows livor with the highway dealers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Another scandalous article is the restoration of the artistic heritage of the four regions affected by the earthquake. I wonder why you decided to entrust the restoration program to the Opificio delle Pietre Grazie in Florence; why didn't you involve the Academies of the Fine Arts of the Four Earthquake Regions, Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are professionalism and techniques suitable for restoration. You have still humiliated the territories with this choice and, above all, taken away from them a possibility of growth, development and enhancement inherent in the valorization of the artistic heritage. (at 10.16 a.m.) (Follow Arrigoni). The League, as in the Chamber of Deputies, also tried to improve the text by means of a package of amendments: over a hundred, all of them of merit. In addition to various measures on staff, which I do not mention in detail, I recall some of them, such as the possibility of extending the regularization of small discrepancies to municipalities outside the crater. This is an effective rule, agreed with the professionals, introduced by us with Decree-Law No. 55 of 2018, the last of the Executive Gentiloni Silveri and the first on which the yellow-green government has put its hand. Why didn't you extend an effective standard for the Crater Municipals to the Crater Municipals? I would like to mention another amendment concerning the exclusion, also for 2020, of immovable property that cannot be used for the purposes of the ISEE. This is a rule of justice, which we introduced last year in the budget law and whose extension and extension to 2020 you rejected. In another rejected amendment we had provided for the 60% reduction in the return of the heavy pay envelope to those earthquake victims who, in the aftermath of the earthquake, did not make use of that option. The discount introduced in the decree-law is fine, but so you have introduced a clear discrimination between A-series citizens and B-series citizens. For example, you have rejected the smart proposal of the reinforced earthquake bonus, you have rejected the extension of the urban free zone to beyond 2020, for another two or three years, to allow businesses to make proper programming. As other colleagues have said, you have rejected the establishment of a special economic zone, which, like the extension of the urban free zone, is absolutely necessary to protect existing businesses, which are suffering and creating conditions for new ones to be installed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr. Undersecretary, there is no job without economy and there is no future for those earthquake communities. These amendments have all been rejected. I shall start with the conclusions. Yesterday, during the work in the Commission, the Democratic Party (through the press) and some members of the 5 Star Movement (in session) accused the League and the oppositions of carrying out irresponsible obstructionism. If there is an irresponsible behaviour here in Parliament, that is certainly yours. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Look, there was plenty of time to close the action in the House of Deputies. Yours was an irresponsible behavior because in the middle of the budget session you issued, without the presuppositions of necessity and urgency, several decree-laws, including the climate decree, which served Minister Costa (always around the world, to flag this flag) and which contains ideological and certainly ineffective measures to combat climate change. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, there is the decree-law under consideration, since the necessary measures, such as the extension of the state of emergency and other terms, could have been safely introduced into the budget law, as we did last year. So you clogged Parliament and especially the Ministries. Between so much meat in the fire and the vetoes crossed between the various members of the majority, you are producing a bad job of which the common good of the country is victim. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I conclude by confirming that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione will continue its commitment to the earthquake-stricken territories at risk of depopulation and to those populations, to which our utmost respect goes. That, and that alone, has led us to the House of Deputies not to vote against this terrible measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u19	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few brief comments on the measure under discussion. It is the third decree-law on earthquakes that we are examining and - as the rapporteur said in his report - it will certainly not be the last, as there will be others. As for the first consideration that I intend to carry out, I believe that in a country like Italy, vulnerable from the seismic point of view and on the side of geological conformation, a responsible Government and a serious Parliament, beyond the political belongings (which can be right, center or left), should pose the problem of issuing a framework rule, a single law that regulates emergencies and critical issues. This has not happened, nor is it intended to do so later. We continue to issue decrees on decrees, which respond - or should respond - to emergencies occurring in our country. Some articles of the measure in question concern the earthquake that struck the island of Ischia, in Campania, in August 2017. I would like to refer to these articles, leaving the discussion of the many other articles - 50, compared to the original nine - to my colleagues in the Group, some of whom have already spoken and others will do so after me. Two articles, which explicitly concern the island of Ischia, struck my attention. I remember that after the 2017 event on the island there was the authoritative visit of President Count, Vice President Di Maio and the delegate, Senator Crimi, who assured the territory the particular attention it deserved and that they would immediately provide for the appointment of a commissioner to treat the care and emergency part, as well as that of reconstruction. They were of their word. He was appointed the commissioner, Dr. Schilardi, who immediately, with the team and the norms that were inserted within the so-called Genoa decree a few years ago, began the work of assistance and aimed to create the necessary conditions to be able to restart the reconstruction in a concrete way. A microzonation plan was drawn up for areas affected by the earthquake and work began to do so. 10.23 a.m. (De Siano followed). With the measure under consideration, the philosophy adopted by the previous Government is completely distorted, in the sense that a reconstruction plan is being used that will have to draw up the Campania Region, in agreement with the municipalities concerned and the government commissioner. This, in fact, means to block in a concrete way the orders issued by the government commissioner for reconstruction and not to start the reconstruction even in the areas of the municipalities hit by the earthquake of 2017, which are neither red zone, nor significant from the seismic and hydrogeological point of view. This is a fact, it is reality. Another point that I would like to highlight to the representatives of the Government and colleagues of the other parties is that, as someone who preceded me said, Italian citizens who belong and live in reality different from each other are not treated in the same way. I'll explain. In the amendments we tabled we asked for uniformity of treatment, as regards contributions, for citizens who had suffered damage to the home since the 2017 earthquake. Similarly, the citizens of Catania and Campobasso, with a decree of a few months ago, had the opportunity to see recognized the contributions also for the houses submitted to sanatoria building: obtained the concession in sanatoria and established the legitimacy of the house could make use of the contribution. All this is denied to the citizens of the municipalities of the island of Ischia affected by the earthquake of 2017. In this regard, I would like to read to you Article 3 of the Italian Constitution, which states: All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions.................................................................................................... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Siano, you have to finish your speech. DE SIANO (FIBP-UDC). Can I have a few more seconds? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sure. I've already given you two more minutes. DE SIANO (FIBP-UDC). Thank you. Article 3 continues as follows: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. All of this comes from this Government and from this majority, unwitting and unenforced and, in fact, there is a diversity of treatment of citizens who belong to the same country. For all this, regarding the citizens of the municipalities of the island of Ischia affected by the earthquake of 2017, we must thank the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party who, in fact, have put an end in a concrete way to the reconstruction of the houses and areas damaged by the earthquake of 2017. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u21	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u22	Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law is undoubtedly much awaited, especially by the people who have experienced the seismic events of Central Italy since 24 August 2016. It is true that the population is unfortunately gradually abandoning those places, perhaps ultimately, even with progressive socio-economic impoverishment probably irreversible. That is also what we must avoid with the measures we are taking in the decree-law. The complex system of the reconstruction has undoubtedly recorded - as it has been evidenced - of the remarkable delays, also because of a normative process that has modified in course of work many norms, but also for the complex procedures - it is emphasized - of access to the contribution, besides that for the deficiency of the staff is in the special offices for the reconstruction is in the Municipalities. According to the current arrangement, even in Umbria we should take more than ten years to examine all the expected practices. The ANCI has long been a permanent co-ordination for drawing up proposals and the decree-law under consideration certainly responds to many of these needs with interventions capable of speeding up the time and restarting as soon as possible, including through public reconstruction, in addition to private reconstruction. But of the EUR 20 billion allocated to available funds, very few have been spent on it: it seems to be just 2 billion. The bill of conversion of the decree-law was approved in the Chamber without any votes against and there are many useful measures to meet the requests for acceleration of interventions. As was pointed out by the rapporteur: the heavy envelope is reduced by 60% and the remaining 40% is set aside in ten years; the IMU has been eliminated from the inaccessible buildings; grants have been made for non-refundable business activities, on the basis of the measure "Stay in the South" and non-refundable contributions and zero-rate loans to agricultural enterprises in the Crater Municipalities; self-certification of professionals is established; special regional reconstruction programmes are planned; 50% of the remuneration of professionals and the creation of the Rotation Fund are anticipated; local authority loans are extended until 2021; EUR 50 million is allocated for the development of productive areas, for tourist and cultural promotion, for training and access to credit; the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises is extended for another three years; the facilitation measures for the development of the school year are extended for a two-year period; EUR 2 million for technical and administrative personnel are allocated and, above all, the introduction of the negotiated procedure without a ban for the provision of works and professional work, as well as for the professional tasks. There is no doubt, however, that there are inconsistencies that we will have to deal with later, and contradictions, as highlighted also during the hearings. There are still too many constraints and obligations, for example - it has been recalled this too - in predicting that public buildings, like schools, must necessarily be rebuilt in the historical centers or that the same destination of the area will have to be maintained, thus reducing the competence and the planning space in charge of the mayors. There is also a contradiction between the relocation of buildings and the maintenance of their existing volumetric size compared to the adjustments that the anti-seismic safety regulations could impose. There are also landscape constraints that are difficult to reconcile with reconstruction and difficulties for compulsory consortia in defining the boundaries of composite building aggregates. Finally, but no less important, it is approximated the expiry of staff contracts after three years of precariousness, with the risk of losing skills and professionalism and leaving the offices unguarded. These are forecasts that we will probably have to return to, so as not to disappoint the expectations of people who have not given up and who have chosen not to abandon a heritage of history and generations. This is our commitment. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u23	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u24	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult not to all agree on a series of measures which aim to heal wounds, which are due not only to the earthquake itself, before which our foresight is probably still quite limited, but above all to those problematicities which have accumulated over the years in the form of bureaucratic delays, administrative complexity, difficulties in establishing a relationship of trust in those who have suffered the consequences of the earthquake and those who are committed to rebuilding. What strikes the most, what represents an element of additional suffering, sometimes difficult to accept on the part of people, is not so much the ineluctability of the event, but rather what appears to all effects a sort of misunderstanding of the institutions with respect to the experience that accompanies these events, linked many times to what objectively constitutes a culture of mistrust and suspicion. As we know, the professionals involved in designing projects are suffering from this situation, which should offer solutions that solve the problem not in the very short term, but at least in the medium and possibly long term. This complex procedure requires expertise and should require, especially in areas with high seismic risk, the possibility of building so that the building, school or public structure does not come down in the event of further shock. This requires technicality that very often have a characteristic of innovativeness to which is added a feature of higher cost. Well, today, it is difficult for the professional to interact in terms of design, but also of the relationship of trust with the structures, without feeling somehow blocked by three elements that we all know and to which the law tries to give an answer in some way. Among these, the possibility of meeting the needs of professionals who engage full-time in such a difficult undertaking and who must be able to collect their parcels, what is their means of personal sustenance, otherwise they too are subjected to a kind of tsunami that will not allow them to guarantee their family and their professional continuity the necessary support. There is also the difficulty of knowing to what extent their personal responsibility integrates with the responsibility of the public administration for certifications: we know that much has been put in charge of professionals and that professionals have been able to see this, on the one hand, as a proof of trust, but, on the other, as a high-risk situation. What represents for us the real impediment in the country is the bureaucratic complexity, which with a series of laces and laces makes even tell the Ministry of Economic Development that the funds are there but you cannot spend them, that it is the worst wound that can be imposed on these people. If we do not reconstruct things, it is not because we lack funds, but because the system we have equipped ourselves to deal with this is not only a system of high complexity, but a high risk of running into the contradictions of the law. It seems to me that the decree-law seeks, in some passages, to make clarity, to free, for example, the richness of design by shifting control downstream and not necessarily upstream. There are so many places where these works cannot even start, because the bureaucratic controls that precede them are such and of such complexity that they do not run the risk of putting yards into play that may even lead to subsequent consequences and penalties. From this point of view, there is also the idea that the removal of rubble itself, in some cases, is such an obstacle that it helps to give these countries the size of dead countries. It is clear that in theory the decree-law wants to prevent the impoverishment, the depopulation of these countries, but there is no doubt that after many years (the earthquake of 2016, we know that there are still - just think of situations like that of the Eagle, to name but one - rubble that comes from far further away) all this is not possible. We would have expected from this decree-law not only the material resources that are made available, not only a design that takes into account, for example for situations such as that of Venice or like that of Matera, the fact that these are cities of art and that therefore deserve a truly particular attention to the return of an image that is in memory, in the head and in the heart not only of the Italians, but of the whole world, but attention to the situations in which the deficit is the simple one of the houses in which to live, of the stables where to keep the animals, of the schools to let the children attend, in some cases also of the places where the elderly can continue to live. In this regard, I quote an example for everyone: in the Province of Amatrice there is a residence for the elderly, the only one in the area within 20 kilometers, which asked for an increase in the availability of beds because the children of these elderly have moved, have gone to live outside, their houses are not accessible. The only possibility is to be welcomed to live in these realities, but there is no trace of this. It is once again a decree-law built on normativeity, to try to avoid those that can be used and abused, but that in many cases actually gives these territories to immobilism. There is no centrality of the person, especially of the fragile people, and I repeat the concrete case of this RSA for the elderly who for months has been waiting to see simply enlarged their willingness to make possible the lives of people who do not want to go and live outside. There is no depopulation there; there is a rooting that must still be preserved and defended. Then there is all the impossibility of parents to guarantee their children the continuity of school, made difficult even by transport, by bad weather and by many other factors. I really believe that bureaucratic simplification must be a commitment, that in the decree-law at our examination is only partially transposed, where it should become a way of life so that these territories can really start building, living and moving the local economy again. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u25	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I address in particular my colleagues elected in Sicily, who are 17 of the Movimento 5 Stars: Francesco Mollame, Lorefice, Marinello, D'Angelo, Drago, Pisani, Campagna, Santangelo, Leone, Trentacoste, Giarrusso, Anastasi, Floridia and Catalfo. I address the two colleagues from Italy, Viva, who are unfortunately absent, namely Senator Sudan and Davide Faraone, and also Senator Grasso, from Palermo. We have all these representatives of Sicily, who have been called upon to express and defend their reasons. Well, today, as always, as a Sicilian, from the land of Sicilian, together with my colleagues, I am forced to bring back the problems of the South, the South that you all say you want to help: from Count 1 to Count 2, to Count "1 at the price of three": to date nothing has been seen. But the scandalous thing is that now this situation has become normal for us, because we are accustomed to underdevelopment, we are perhaps accustomed to waiting, to believe, to hope again for change, because 25 elected senators are not few. Yet, of 25 senators, no one, and I say no one - I do not speak of the representatives of the House because it is to be ashamed - managed to write a staff, a single word of help for Sicily. I remind you, then, Sicilian colleagues, that Sicily, for a hundred years, lives in the city of Messina a situation of great shame, a shame that everyone reported in the newspapers because Mayor Cateno De Luca, whom you all know for his manifestation - even folkloristic - the complaints of our Sicily, has contracted diseases going to the ghettos, barracks like favelas, which are transferred from father to son since the earthquake of 1908. We are talking about families that have nothing less than the families of the poor earthquake victims of Central Italy; families that have become accustomed for generations to living in the midst of diseases because they live in eternity, with open sewers, without light. We have been there several times as parliamentarians. I am a Member of Catania but I have been to Messina and I have lived - and I live - the situation with great shame and discomfort because families have lived there since 1908. They may be homes less rich than those in the North, but they're houses. The house is the family; the house is the nucleus where the family can gather, can and must live. You can't live in these conditions in 2019, a hundred years later. The same goes for Belice; it has been fifty-one years, President. For fifty-one years these families have lived in the barracks covered with eternity, with all the inconveniences, diseases and backgrounds that there are in these areas. So I really wonder: what are you Sicilians doing in the Senate, what? We are here to represent the cry of pain; all the Sicilians, also of Forza Italia, must finally bring these problems here, because this can be a unique opportunity of redemption for Sicily. We always work with emergent situations and with decree-laws. Do people have to die another time, then? But it is not enough, because even during the last earthquake of 2018, near where I live, in Catania, 1,140 people were evacuated, also abandoned to themselves. So I ask you - and I ask you on your knees - to foresee a way that is not always that of the decree of urgency, where, of course, those who have the best are the others, at the expense of and to the detriment of Sicily. You have to provide for a law in favour of Sicily that declares it, like all other earthquake regions, with situations of natural disaster, so that it is recognized all the prerogatives that are recognized to people affected by the earthquake, which instead, in some cases, are even forced to pay the mortgages, as happened in the case of the last earthquake shock of 2018 that hit the area of Etna. President, I conclude by saying that unfortunately also with this Government, with Minister Costa, 361 million have been planned for Italy: 236 works for 2019 and in Sicily 3 interventions against 105 of Piedmont. The Sicilians received only 56 million. I really invite - this is my request and my prayer - my Sicilian colleagues to take care of the South, Sicily and to represent here, since they have been elected, the cry of pain of the Sicilians, who are waiting for resources, attention and sensitivity, which you still have not had today. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u29	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It can only intervene on the order of business. DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, I ask you for kindness, when demonstrations take place against a political side, without bringing any evidence...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u30	Senator, this is not an intervention on the order of business. If you want to intervene on a personal basis or to respond to Senator Papatheu, you can do so at the end of the work. We need to move on with the speeches right now. DRAGO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I shall then speak on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u33	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the same explanatory statement, on a personal note, because I was brought up by my colleague, Mr Papatheu, who is not informed about certain measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u34	At the end of the session, Senator Drago and Senator Mollame will act as a personal act. Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u35	Mr President, the decree-law before us has first of all a merit: it puts the issue of the 2016 earthquake at the centre of the political agenda. It is an urgent and disruptive issue despite the too much silence that has fallen around because there is a great piece of Italy, the heart that has always pulsated along the Central Apennines, where Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio meet, communities of values, ways of life and mentality linked by the same culture. There is a part of Italy, ours, that still has an open wound and those who do not live in the Municipalities of the crater struggle to realize, to identify, to put themselves in these shoes, to understand the hardness of everyday life, the darkening of historical centers almost deserts and the prospects that already before the earthquake were complicated and that are now increasingly intermittent and uncertain. We are dealing with the most gigantic and terrible calamity of the last centuries. The earthquake of 1997, which was also tremendous, was however much less extensive and the reconstruction much simpler. Those who say that we should have solved everything compared to three years ago already do not know what he is talking about; he very often does cynical propaganda. In 1997 with much less problems it took at least five years, but certainly we must demand speed, don't waste time, break bureaucracy, but there is nothing worse than jackaling, as happened on the hands of the earthquake victims, used in the 2018 political election campaign as a propaganda set. It was a great set-up and then there was darkness because in the fourteen months of the previous government the interventions were few and clumsy. The Commissioner has shown himself to be weak, incapable of answers and acts that would unblock and simplify. On the other hand, there was a stasis and a prolonged impasse, when a great reactivity, initiatives and participation would have served immediately. We have always denounced the disinterest of the last majority and the fact that we have slipped the quake between local issues and, therefore, at the end of the day, marginal. It is, however, a national dispute, and we will always demand that it be, and we will never open ourselves from this point of view. It is also a national dispute for the internal areas and, then, we need a vision, planning and investments that have been missing in the last fourteen months. They serve to build a model of development not for today, but for the next fifty years of the crater; they need determination and a ruling class. We welcomed President Conte's decision to keep the delegations to reconstruction for himself. It is a political and symbolic fact of great significance, but to President Conte we have not given and we will not give delegations in white; we will not make discounts. We are going to do our work as toughly as we are today as we were when we were in opposition yesterday because we no longer have the time to make mistakes; we have only the time and the urgency to do well. This urgent decree marks a watershed because it draws a trajectory for the future, because there is an idea of development based on the enterprise that creates work, extends the fund of guarantees for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and wants to relaunch our model of artisan development and entrepreneurship linked to the territory, which is versatile, quality and that creates work. There is a model that defends companies because, when a company closes, it is very difficult to reopen; they are lost energies and they very often do not recover. It wants to relaunch the model of widespread and youthful entrepreneurship. The rules that we have here support VAT matches and rural entrepreneurship, which is an important part of the agri-food district and tourist district chain, which attracts mobility and investment, which is an economic multiplier. There are rules that counter desertification, which is the greatest danger, which encourage us to return to life and choose to live in our municipalities and in internal areas. There are incentives and there is special taxation and rules to, for example, support the permanence of schools in small centres. There are rules that allow in the coming months to think of the crater as a great special economic zone. This decree-law marks an important and generous step since 2016 to lay the foundations of a lasting rebirth of lives, sociality, work, social cohesion and sustainability. Because at the same time, the social and economic fabric must be reconstructed, but also the houses and buildings, public and private. On this subject of private reconstruction, in particular, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and rapporteur, we would have liked more and we said together that in this decree-law, which contains important things, there were additional instruments. There are very important things, especially for small municipalities, but it also risks being a missed opportunity compared to the enormous expectations that there are on reconstruction, especially the private one. In fact, in the final phase of the writing of the provision, they lacked that listening and participation that even for long weeks had characterized it and we want this sharing work to resume. It is all the more important for the region most affected, the Marche, which has the most extensive and pervasive damages, among the four affected. There is a specificity of the Marches, in fact, where the two-thirds of the municipalities of the crater and 40% of the affected territory are located. We know that, after the terrible night of August 24, the earthquakes of 26 and 30 October have greatly extended the front of the calamity and concentrated the major damage in the 87 municipalities of the Marche, about 140 of the crater. In the ridge that connects Ascoli, Fermo and Macerata, the area of the Region where the upheavals of the economy have hit harder already in the previous years, there are two areas of industrial crisis, that of the piceno and that of the stop-Macerata, with districts fundamental for the entire Country: in addition to the specific economic, therefore, there is one linked to the needs of the reconstruction. Many problems have arisen in the course of work, after Decree-Law No. 189 of 2016, still a fundamental instrument. We know the answer: to give more functions to municipalities and technicians. In this decree-law, in addition to the recognition of advance expenses for technicians - finally! - there is one instrument: self-certification by professionals, which is fundamental, provided that it works and that geometries, geologists, engineers and architects are put in a position to certify without charge and without replacing the municipalities, to which instead they must be given greater responsibility. If this self-certification mechanism does not work, there is a risk that service conferences will multiply and therefore that the mechanism will jam, which we must avoid. That is why we have adopted an agenda, which we wanted, to monitor this mechanism and, if necessary, to intervene on this, which is the engine of reconstruction. We consider this to be an open decree-law, although we cannot intervene today because of the jam of the measures, Mr President. We consider the work on the earthquake a strategic continuity, not a unique in itself. In conclusion, the other issue of our agenda concerns certainties for staff, because there is a need for extensions for those who work in municipalities and in the special offices of reconstruction, which allow further recruitment. The money is there, allocated by us, and must be used. We ask the Government to take charge of the voice of the mayors and the categories and already in January to resume a work of sharing and to intervene where necessary. All of us in this House, Mr President, have a duty not to make mistakes and not to turn the earthquake into a ring and a blunt object for jackal politicians. We have a duty to give certainties and restore trust to those who do not want to leave, has chosen to return and will raise their children in the places of their grandparents and concretely and daily for three years is at the front with great ethical and moral strength, demonstrating that there is a great Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u37	Mr President, we hear words about words. We have been hearing them for hours in this House and we have heard them for hours yesterday in the Environment and Territory Commission. Well, it is said that an image is worth more than a hundred words and then: what is it and what was the earthquake decree for this Government? You can see it on the newspaper page that I'm showing you: a great electoral ad, that's right. It reads: "Government deployed for Vincenzo Bianconi." A measure, as has been said, approved on the 21st of October to go to support any stagebuchi, found to run in a region, in fact lost, and approved after a precise commitment that Prime Minister Conte had gone to take in the earthquake zones. "It's not a catwalk," said Premier Conte. It is not a catwalk, in fact, the decree-law issued by the Council of Ministers was a mockery: nine articulated, four pages, this is the earthquake decree, announced by the Count bis to a community on its knees, because still so are the communities of the earthquake area. "There will be no more extensions" he had said Count. Well, perhaps the most substantial measure of this measure, despite the improvements made to the original text, are extensions. This measure, this electoral ad, Prime Minister Conte went to present it in Narni, Umbria. Well, Narni is 115 kilometres from Castelluccio di Norcia. It has been said that this Government is distant from reality: it is not only ideally, it has also been physically! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They went to submit this decree-law to Narni because, if they had gone to Norcia, at best they would have taken some vegetables on their faces, to say the least. Maybe even some rubble, given all the rubble that's still there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the face of all this, I would like to address Mr Verducci, partly because I owe him an apology because we had a disagreement in the Commission, but on one point I ask him to give me notice: he said that 2018 was a bit of an electoral spot; well, you have to be fair to say that this earthquake decree, in the initial text, was an equal and superior commercial. Otherwise, it would not have gone from the ten articles that came out of the Council of Ministers to the fifty-two articles that were fired from the House: if we had to insert forty-two articles, it means that the initial text certainly does not respond to everything that it should have answered. And that abstention, critical and responsible, that there was in the House by the League is due precisely to this. As Senator Pazzaglini said in the opening speech, even if there had been one measure, one article, one amendment to the advantage, it would have been right to contribute, at least not to oppose, because it was for the benefit of a community, as I said, on its knees, still prostrated: not only because of the conditions, but also because of the distance and inability that the institutions as a whole have shown, beyond the steps forward and the change of the parties between majority and opposition that have taken place in recent years. In the face of all this, even here in the Senate, the will of the League Group, as Senator Arrigoni well described in his speech, was to improve, to help improve. Well, here we have a package of dozens and dozens of amendments that we already know that we will not discuss and we will not discuss them, be careful, with a reason that is not that of non-sharing content. Some of these amendments, in fact, are similar and come from all the parliamentary groups, proving that, if you want to put an objective and honest problem before you, that is the problem and those are the solutions. We have been told that there was no time and we have had this answer at the same time as, day after day, a budget committee, which has been waiting for 37 days to have a final and complete text, has been postponed continuously. We all know that a window in the House for a third reading, in light of the state of progress of the budget law, would have been there. It was enough a technical passage that collected the improvements proposed not only by the Lega Group but by all the Groups (in detail the colleagues went) and above all requested by the municipal administrations, professionals and the Regions. We have here dozens of amendments proposed and put in writing on the subject by municipal administrations and mayors who are heroes, who in recent years have tried to respond to their communities, communities sometimes even physically dispersed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I have already had the opportunity to say that I live in the vicinity of Trasimeno and we have had hundreds of citizens transformed, despite them, into displaced people, who should have stayed a few days in our territories and who we had to welcome with families, tens and tens of kilometers from their home. Just as it happened to some places on the Adriatic coast to have to welcome citizens. Well, those mayors, sometimes wandering around hotels and residences, tried to keep a community together and today they ask us, based on their experience, for better answers than the text that came out of the House, saying that it is not enough and that it does not respond to all this and we say no and tell them that, in the same words as the previous colleague, it is noted that other measures will have to be added. But then, if we hear in this House that we will have to start again in January with a new decree, we ask ourselves: was it not worth giving those same answers today? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, it was so worth it, literally, that to say it is not just us but the Regions. And here allow me, at least in this, a well-known controversy: the Regions Umbria, Marche, Lazio and Abruzzo have managed to agree, although they are of different political colors and with different problems, and have left us a unitary document. The representative of the Marche Region has come, who is certainly not composed and supported by dangerous leghisti, to tell us clearly that if the errors - out of charity, made in good faith - contained in the decree-law, are not corrected, we risk the paralysis of reconstruction. If the head of a region comes then to tell us this in the name and on behalf of his President - who is of the PD and not of the League - I think that an additional analysis and a possible answer had to be found because the times to do so, I repeat, were there. Soon you will ask for a trust, a confidence to Count who, in fact, is also a distrust to the President of the Lazio Region, such Zingaretti, because the President of the Lazio Region asks for certain things that are not granted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But we are also accustomed to being denied by his party, Secretary President Zingaretti. Then, in the face of all this, we do not know who should be more serene between Count, Zingaretti and Di Maio. What we know is that citizens cannot be serene as long as there is this Government and we will not resign and we will not be serene until finally we can return to give concrete answers and solutions to a territory that has been waiting too long for them. We in the Lega Group - together with our colleagues from the 5 Stars who seem to have lost their way in this regard too, as they may be on the road to Europe this afternoon on the ESM - have remained on that road leading to concrete solutions that we will be able to give to a community that has been waiting too long for them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u38	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u39	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very interested in this measure. I wanted to prepare a written speech but I decided to put together what I have felt these days, within an environmental committee in which we have tried in every way to make it clear that the attitude of the minority groups, of Forza Italia and of other colleagues, was not a obstructive attitude towards such an important measure. It was simply the will to be a voice - as should be Parliament as the representative body of the citizens - of the mayors, municipalities, citizens, the population and businesses that are operating in the crater territories in a climate, after three years, still of emergency. It is not right that Parliament should not be able to work together for the sake of a wonderful nation like Italy, but a nation, as we all know, fragile. The green new deal is the flag of this government. Green new deal means primary attention to the issues of environment, sustainability, public health and consequently to the issues of work. Now, where is the revolution within this measure? He arrived in October at the Chamber of Deputies composed of 10 articles: it is a superficial measure, badly written and with a few points, so much so that from the 10 initial articles, after the examination of the Chamber, was transmitted to the Senate composed of 52 articles. It means it took a lot of work to make it at least plausible. Then he arrived in the Senate, in which so many representatives of the citizens live in those areas and where we asked for the possibility - which was granted to us - of holding hearings, in which the mayors and the companies that are working on that territory have signalled us a whole series of criticalities that the measure will not go to dissolve. I am referring, for example, to the critical issues that concern the state of emergency in the strict sense, because every moment there is a state of emergency, but to bits and bits, one small piece at a time, and this does not allow neither programming nor calendarization of the works by the mayors. The same applies to the stabilisation of staff: mayors are employed by fixed-term staff; they are trained, staff are growing, after which they see their relationship of collaboration interrupted and it is necessary to start all over again. Two hundred units of personnel had been assigned inside the unlocking sites to the area of the earthquake: zero of these units have arrived. It is a situation that cannot go on. In fact, the area of the crater of the earthquake is the largest yard in Italy and, as such, should be considered and addressed. Paradoxically, a tragedy could be transformed into an opportunity, but probably the government, who should give us the addresses, is blind and does not see. When disasters of this kind happen, so I said that Italy is a fragile country, we are the best in the first sixty days after the tragedy to face the emergency. Then everything goes into the bureaucratic cauldron of a system that, if there are no upcoming elections or something that lights up the spotlight, makes everything stop. The decree of urgency is also used for this measure. Decreate means doing things wrong, making one House work. Today you will be putting the question of trust, but trust in this case, on such a measure, is unfortunately not a feeling, what citizens should feel about institutions. In this House, which is now working on laws-laws and trust issues, it turns into a mechanical action to hold together groups that have nothing to share with each other and that are probably only together for mutual convenience. You will only find confidence in this House, because the citizens are losing it completely to you and therefore, when there is - hopefully very soon - the scrutiny of the judgment of citizenship, we will see. Let us think of the seven earthquakes, the unmanageable management of the rubble problem, the three fundamental points, in the crater area, which have not yet been solved: the problem of housing, the problem of work and the problem of depopulation. We have tried to be as proactive as possible, we have tried to propose proposals of common sense, but nothing: nothing has been heard. I have continued to repeat to the majority that it is not sin and we do not go to hell if we share good and sensible proposals, but humility is probably not part of the characteristics of this majority. There is no method and no systematic action. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gallone, I invite you to conclude. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I conclude by saying that the proposals have not been transposed and that the cry of the people and mayors continues to rise. We feel it, you don't feel it: the real emergency of the country is to send this government home. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the political lines, no one in this country can forget the tragedies associated with earthquakes, which struck L'Aquila in 2009, the Po Valley in 2012, the seismic crater of central Italy in 2016 and 2017, Ischia in 2017, Sicily in 2018. Hundreds of people have lost their lives, hundreds of countries and homes have been destroyed and thousands of homeless people have been forced to emigrate, a rich artistic and cultural heritage has been compromised or lost and vast deserted areas. Our country, besides being one of the most beautiful, with an unparalleled cultural and artistic richness, is also an extremely fragile territory, affected by intense tectonic movements, which generate a high danger and a widespread seismic risk. The decree-law in question seeks to intervene on aspects not previously considered and to speed up reconstruction. Unfortunately, the emergency phase is still in place and for this reason the emergency has been extended to 31 December 2020. The continuation of the emergency is tangible, observing the road that must be restored, for the need to secure the slopes affected by landslides, that have involved roads, bridges and viaducts, leaving isolated, or in any case with extremely problematic accesses, entire fractions. The Decree-Law contains a series of measures concerning citizens, technicians and businesses. We cannot say that there is nothing in the measure that we are called to vote on, because the 60% reduction in the return of the heavy pay envelope is important for these communities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And the remaining 40% can be paid in ten years. Then there is the elimination of the IMU on inaccessible properties, to ensure that the damage is not added the mockery of having to pay taxes for a good you cannot enjoy. There have been grants and soft loans for entrepreneurial activities for people under the age of forty-six, but without any age limit for the most damaged municipalities. This is a measure aimed at keeping young people in earthquake areas. It is not that we have not thought of farmers, who are one of the most significant garrisons in the territory. I am also particularly interested in the ban for 122 restorers of the mobile works recovered from the earthquake, aimed at intervening for the restoration and conservation of the artistic heritage, which was preserved also in the churches and in the smaller municipalities. It gives oxygen to the profession of restorer, of which our country has extreme necessity, since the flywheel for the occupational resumption of the area of the crater passes also from an increase of the tourist use. In order to facilitate private reconstruction and local authorities, the forecast has been introduced that technicians, who so far have supported with their own activities, and therefore with their own funds, reconstruction, in anticipation of the costs of investigations and planning, will be able to access 50% of the advances of compensation. This is a measure that the professionals wanted, we did not make it up. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In case of minor damage, the self-certification of the project will be sufficient to rebuild without the obligation to certify the urban conformity. This is one way to speed up the reconstruction. It is possible for municipalities under 3,000 inhabitants to employ higher-level municipal secretaries. There is an extension of local government loans until 2021. The territories affected by the earthquake in central Italy are allocated €27 million for extraordinary interventions, up to a maximum of €200,000 for municipalities up to 30,000 inhabitants; €50 million are earmarked for economic, business, tourism and cultural development, with the establishment of a directing booth under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. €2 million is allocated to hire administrative and accounting staff in the municipalities for reconstruction practices: do not say that we do not foresee staff; in the previous measure 300 officials were given to the municipalities. I listened to speeches by various opposition members who quoted the words of engineer Spuri, who criticized the decree-law. Maybe you've forgotten - or you don't know - that Spuri has been a subcommissive for two years. Why don't you wonder why these people didn't do something when they could? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear that this measure does not constitute a panacea for the regions affected by the earthquake and that much remains to be done. A catastrophic event leaves indelible traces, especially in the lives of people, forced to make fatal leaps to adapt to changes also and above all in the socio-economic context. For those who do not live in the earthquake areas it is not even remotely possible to imagine what the disappearance of everyday reality means. In these situations, which accentuate the sense of loneliness in an increasingly deserted country, it is not surprising that people let themselves be taken by discouragement and depression, which can lead, as has happened on several occasions, to extreme gestures, such as that carried out yesterday by an elder in Ussita. For future earthquakes, it must be ensured that there is no loss of human life and such great loss of the social fabric, which alone is able to keep a community united. We must learn to work on prevention, building in safe areas, since we are now able to identify those areas that our ancestors were unable to diagnose in the past. If we are forced to rebuild in areas at risk, such as in large areas of the island of Ischia or eastern Sicily, we will have to use constructive criteria to ensure that the suitability of the buildings, which is almost impossible to achieve, at least solutions that prevent the loss of human lives. Other states, with much stronger earthquakes, have worked in this direction and Italy cannot remain behind. Building in areas at greater risk costs more, but what is money compared to human life? The measure must therefore be seen as a further step towards a much more difficult task, such as the realization of a safer territory and the reconstruction of a community. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u43	Mr President, I will be very quick. I would like to reiterate that this is a useful, non-harmful measure as described (and, in any case, whoever described it in this way must justify the vote of his group in the House of Deputies, which was not against). It is certainly not a perfect and exhaustive measure. We said: the government will have to do more interventions and we need an emergency law in this country. Frankly, I do not share a discussion in which reality is deleted. In this measure there are labour standards; standards to help territories not to be depopulated; standards for development, culture and tourism. And many of them have been proposed to the House precisely by those oppositions that are telling us today that they are not there: this is not the way to discuss a tragedy like that of the earthquake and reconstruction. Everything can be improved - I said it - but I have only seen confusion here: in many of the amendments we rejected I have seen only confusion between the idea of the right need to simplify and the idea that this need corresponds to absolute deregulation. I think that reconstruction must be done quickly, but it is not acceptable to trade the idea that haste justifies lowering the level of quality and rules. It's the only theme we've got, and we haven't agreed on. Everything else - the rules against depopulation, at work, development, tourism, school and culture - is there. And there are also thanks to the contribution and the amendments of those who are here today to explain to us that they are not there. I think that's not fair. I would like to thank everyone who has worked for this measure. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u44	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Pazzaglini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr Mirabelli is asking to point out where the decree-law in question creates problems and, therefore, I do so immediately: at the Conference - for example - regional services, which - as was suggested in the measure - creates operational difficulties and longer times. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And I don't say it, but says the engineer Spuri, who in 1997 was delegated commissioner for civil protection interventions after the seismic events that involved Marche and Umbria and today is responsible for the special office for the reconstruction of the Marche Region. This decree-law creates problems by providing for extraordinary reconstruction programs, an additional urban planning tool that we know will take a long time; it is the experience that tells us that. The implementation plans that will have to be prepared following the perimeters to date have only started in four cases; i.e. the implementation plans still have to start and a further urban planning instrument is expected to be adopted after the adoption of the plans. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, it will take about two and a half years on average to get to the implementation plans. And then we will wait the same time for the extraordinary reconstruction programs, and only after that will we begin to rebuild. My colleague Mirabelli, the problem of this decree-law... MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, Senator Pazzaglini must reply to this House and not to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've reached the reruns. You speak to the Presidency so we have no problem and let colleagues express their views. Crazy, minority rapporteur. I thought it was polite to answer an explicit question. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. But I asked no questions. Crazy, minority rapporteur. I'll go further. As I said, the problem with this decree-law is that for the umpteenth time it is an electoral spot, as our colleagues have pointed out. I say "for the umpteenth time" because the management of the reconstruction in question has begun in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would kindly ask colleagues to leave the government's benches free. Please, Senator Pazzaglini, continue. Crazy, minority rapporteur. The President of the Renzi Council, who had the burden of managing the reconstruction first, having as his objective not so much to rebuild but rather to prove that he was better than President Berlusconi, who had as his responsibility the management of the earthquake of the Eagle of 2009, immediately took as his reference that reconstruction. Not surprisingly, in an event involving four regions and initially 140 municipalities - but today 138, colleague Verducci - there is talk of crater. "Crater" had a meaning at L'Aquila, where, due to morphological conformation, one could speak of crater; but for an event involving four Regions already the term borrowed is completely inappropriate. This continued: the reconstruction of Emilia-Romagna was taken as a reference, with a situation completely different from that of Central Italy. This is demonstrated - for example - by the criterion for calculating the contribution, which uses the useful surfaces as a parameter, not taking into account that in Emilia-Romagna the perimeter walls are 30 cm, while in Central Italy they are one meter; therefore, by calculating the contribution with the useful surfaces, you will never be able to cover the cost of reconstruction. Some positive measures are present in the decree-law, and we have never denied it, such as - for example - the reduction of the IRPEF to be returned: many people who have been relocated to the coast have had to bear the burden of traveling about 300 kilometers every day to go to work and it is right that they be helped. The problem, however, is that, in the face of a positive measure, which led to the abstention of the Lega Group in the House, there are other predictions that create difficulties. Let us not consider what is missing. As I said before, the possibility was not given to intervene in the reconstruction using and reporting in full the contribution on aggregates. This is an indispensable technical necessity, highlighted by those who, as a private individual, work daily in the earthquake, but also by those who are responsible for the reconstruction for the public part: again, engineer Spuri highlighted this as a problem to be solved. There are, of course, other shortcomings, such as - for example - the failure to derogate from the single text, which must be applied at present, because reconstruction is treated as a new construction and, therefore, subject to all the limits that the new buildings have in those areas, where there are obviously too many constraints, from the architectural to the environmental one - it is a national park - to the urban one; the proliferation of rules inevitably involves the application of constraints. Despite our opposition to many of the measures introduced, we still believe that, due to the small steps taken by this decree-law, the abstention vote has been fully justified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cangini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u46	Mr President, the majority rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, has said that it is not acceptable that the rules should be lowered in order to act quickly. This is a plastic demonstration of the fact that there are cultural differences between the political parties that justify the fact that there is no single party here, but there are more than one party, each with its own point of view and its own approach to problems. From our point of view, haste is the goal. [[Ironic applause from Senator Nugnes.]] To make such a case quickly is not a possibility: it is a duty. The rules are worth less than the daily lives of tens of thousands of fellow countrymen abandoned for three and a half years now to their destiny, and it is not a rosy destiny. The problem is that the rules for intervening on the earthquake in question were written by the party of which the majority rapporteur is an expression, the Democratic Party, in 2016 - then ruled Matteo Renzi - according to ordinary bureaucratic logic. Civil Protection was dismantled, with the chain of command of the times of Bertolasus and the Berlusconi Government, out of ideological fury, bringing everything back to ordinaryity. Our point of view is exactly the opposite: we do not fight an extraordinary phenomenon with ordinary rules and there is nothing more extraordinary and emerging than an earthquake; there is nothing more absurd than thinking of remedying the immense damage of an earthquake in the ordinary times of everyday life. Senator Verducci is right: this could be a missed opportunity. I have respect and esteem for Senator Verducci, who seems to be a serious and responsible person and has told the truth. He said that this is a great national issue, although much of the country struggles to identify itself - and it is understandable, but we cannot resign ourselves to this state of affairs - in the condition of life of the earthquake victims. He said he needed a vision - and indeed serves - that he probably did not find in this provision; he said that two thirds of the crater are in Marche territory and that therefore the emergency concerns the Marches more than any other Region, and this is an indisputable fact. I was elected to the Marches and I can testify that the situation there is dramatic and is worse than the situation of the other three regions concerned. The President of the Marche, however, recently stated that this measure did not solve the problems; he said that this would risk paralysis. The President of the Marche is from the same party as Senator Verducci and the majority rapporteur. Then who do you have to believe? I believe that for the first time the President of the Ceriscioli Marche has not only spoken, but also told the truth. To him goes much of the responsibility of this condition; he has had commissioner roles; he has kept silent for two and a half years and incredibly now speaks and speaks with the strength of those who represent a territory not protected by the institutions, just at the moment when his party is in the government. This is a paradox of which I cannot explain, which probably has to do with the internal affairs of the Democratic Party. But for once honor to the governor of the Ceriscioli Marches, who remembered, after more than three years from the seismic facts of 2016, to be the representative of the Marches, to have operational roles in the management of the earthquake and told the truth: he said that this provision is not at all harmful - as someone wanted to attribute to the judgment of the oppositions - and there are many right things, that we have highlighted in the minority relationship; simply too many are missing and the haste - as has been said - is not an optional, it is a duty. It would be a duty of this Government, if it had the right spirit, that is, the objective of solving problems in the right times, and instead the objective is to honour the rules and so it does not honor the everyday lives of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u47	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u48	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute Stella Maris in Anzio, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u49	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] on the approval, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of Law No 1631 of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 123 of 24 October 2019 laying down urgent provisions for the acceleration and completion of the ongoing reconstruction in the territories affected by seismic events, in the text of the Commission, identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u51	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 123, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11:39 a.m. and resumed at 12:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u52	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the debate on confidence, we will go straight to the explanations of vote to which it will be called.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u53	We proceed to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1631, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 123, 24 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u56	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, do we like this measure or do we not like it? We can't like it, because it's an emergency measure. In fact, it is a measure that prolongs an emergency. But it is a necessary measure, which extends for a year situations not resolved by the earthquake of three years ago in central Italy. And it is also a provision that, however, provides for many situations. It is expected - for example - that the Special Office will be able to make use of the in-house staff of the Regions for specialist support. Extraordinary reconstruction programmes are planned. There are also plans for Venice, Matera, the municipality of Ischia and L'Aquila. Plans are planned for the management of the rubble and extends the measure "Resto al Sud" also to the territories of the crater, with financial and tax incentives due for transfers to those who transfer their residence or stay in the municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants in the area of the crater. This action against the depopulation of those areas is extremely important. There are advances to professionals - fortunately - and extensions of financial and accounting terms, such as - for example - deferred payments of instalments and loans; 40% reduction of taxes; reduction of withholding taxes and extensions of invoices; facilitations to agricultural and forestry companies for loans; exemption for the IMU tax of territories affected by the 2012 earthquake. Let us not finish solving an emergency for another earthquake. There is also an agenda, which I have signed, which recognizes that they cannot fit into the Isee model the unworkable building, because it clearly no longer earns any income, and the suspension of loans to damaged buildings. But there is a "but" and it must also be said to the territories that demand more and more deregulation, more simplification measures, because it is based on a misunderstanding, that is, what haste, as the colleague has said - he has not even used the most appropriate term, which is speed - is positive. Haste is bad because it hurts the necessary things. One cannot trade the need to make a hurry; the need to sburocratize that is necessary, with a lack of control and a game down on quality, with the sale of design works, although urban planning. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Design cannot be devalued with the lowest price criterion. Let's remember that in Sicily, a few years ago, an urban plan was paid a euro and this will never be a guarantee of quality. Quality is also a guarantee of cost and time control. The certification of urban construction conformity cannot be traded with a check of the previous situation and these investigations cannot be charged to the professionals. It is necessary for the public administration to re-evaluate its control and function. You can't degrade the controls. It cannot be expected that the management of the rubble will always include temporary storage sites, without creating an urgent supply chain also for the urban redevelopment of our territories that includes a chain of C&D, i.e. all construction and demolition materials, so that they no longer end up in landfill. Control and design for areas identified at low and medium seismic levels cannot be degraded either, and the need not to increase soil consumption must also be taken into account in reconstruction. To do all this it takes knowledge of the existing real estate and state of the art of our cities, as they have been built over the years, but of which we absolutely do not have control. The condoning practices, even those of 1984, are inevaded not only in Campania but throughout Italy. There are a lot of people because the burden is clearly borne by the person who must have the approval of his own citizens. And, therefore, all languishes because the chosen subject does not want to get in the way of those who created the abuse, and this is not good for the common good. Abuse killings are below 20% and there is absolutely no knowledge of real estate. A long time ago we spoke of the building's booklet. He fell into disuse even the term, he didn't like it. But surely it is necessary to arrive at the shared concept that we need a reliable database, an in-depth knowledge, both for urgent interventions, for the demolitions and for the urban redevelopment of which we speak a lot. A legislative measure is therefore needed to bring out a model capable of immediately remedying the inconveniences of citizens and reconstruction, but it is an instrument not to do new damage and new speculations, but to improve the landscape, structural and environmental quality of our territories instead of selling them out. Moreover, there is a need for security in all senses: structural security and security in the choices and in the possibility of ensuring that those territories resume their journey and do not remain abyssed for decades in practices that never end. Therefore - as I have already said in the preamble - I am voting in favour of the measure before us, which is absolutely necessary and urgent. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u59	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, in declaring the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour, I would like to stress that the contribution of the parliamentary debate to the House, confirmed here in the Senate, is easily readable in the article, enriched with provisions that, without doubt, favour the acceleration of the times of reconstruction, between simplification and support measures. We are aware, however, that this further regulatory intervention will not be enough to close the demands and proposals of those - professionals, entrepreneurs and citizens - who continue to struggle to remain in those places. Their struggle is no longer against the earthquake, but is against the complexity of the system, which risks moving away a possible future of regeneration and socio-economic revival, often of wounded internal areas, but which have never given up; areas rich in a huge naturalistic, landscape and historical heritage, waiting to be valued, rethinking also possible new vocations with instruments of support and advantage, such as those of the Special Economic Zones, repeatedly recalled in our debate. In this context, it is necessary to immediately unlock the resources already allocated, as well as to simplify the governance system. I believe that the overlapping of the different levels of intervention between Commissioner Extraordinary, Vice-Commissioners, Special Offices and Municipalities has not helped. In fact, I am convinced of the usefulness of leaving greater protagonism to the bodies to which the order already assigns extraordinary powers in case of emergency, that is to say to the mayors; an emergency that still struggles to leave space at the time of reconstruction. But perhaps it is even further upstream that we must work, on the prevention front, for the safety of a country as beautiful as it is fragile. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u62	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an absolutely necessary measure, because we cannot leave all the people who have suffered in recent years alone. I also want to remember the last earthquake in our country: a few days ago in Mugello thousands of people were once again hit by a very violent shock. I would therefore like to represent, on behalf of the whole House, the closeness to the mayors and citizens who are working to deal with yet another emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is quite clear, Mr President, that we cannot leave the citizens, the businesses and the institutions alone: the citizens who, in the regions that have been affected, already lived in difficult situations, also given the orography of the territory and the small size of the municipalities; the enterprises that compete internationally in a situation of infrastructure, both hardware and software, not always up to the level; the institutions, basically composed of tens and hundreds of directors very often of small municipalities, who in the morning roll up their sleeves and do a service of civil servant, that is, real civic volunteering. Well, Mr President, it has been very interesting all the way in Parliament, the achievement of the objectives we have taken home. I would like to remind you that the measure has been under consideration by the House for as long as 25 weeks and has been much longer than expected, precisely because 800 amendments have been tabled in that branch of Parliament in the Commission and 500 in this House, more than one hundred of which have been approved in this House, so that the measure that arrived at the Senate has gone from 9 to 50 articles. This is to say that the great work of Parliament has been done by showing great attention to listening to the territories, with repeated hearings, which we have also expanded in the work of the Senate Commission. Interventions are absolutely important and fundamental. Are they exhaustive? Absolutely not, because it is quite clear that the normative accompaniment is such that we should rethink other successive measures to protect and accompany the rebirth of these territories, which must certainly be included in a great national law on emergencies and reconstructions. The speeches contained in the measure have already been highlighted by my colleagues, who took the floor before my explanation of vote. Certainly the most important is the extension of the state of emergency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to ask my colleagues in front of me not to turn their backs on the Presidency. I understand that there is an action of encircling, but I invite you to be quiet. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Never turn your back on the president! There is the return of the heavy envelope, which has already been mentioned by an opposition colleague, and there is the whole question of the suspension of taxes and contributions. The suspension of the payment of local government loans until 2021 and the acceleration of reconstruction times, with the definition of simplified disciplines, for example through the measurement of self-certification for the reconstruction of private individuals, are very important. These are particularly important measures, because in urban planning plans and, above all, in the notes of the offices in charge, often lack the urban configuration prior to earthquakes: let us imagine therefore how necessary it is to intervene now. So let's remember the procedures that allow the reconfiguration of urban conformity, the extension of the measure on the topic of sizing school until 2022 and the possibility to hire new staff to respond to these emergencies, therefore also to derogate from the size of the classes. Then there is the whole, very full-bodied part of the financing, in addition to the regulatory attention, with a series of facilities for micro-enterprises, small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and the whole system of the economy, because it is quite clear that, if a territory is to be shared, the production system and the system of the world of work must also be shared. From this point of view, it is also important to give real support through the measure under consideration to the system of public administration and in particular the confirmation of the extraordinary allowance to directors and the support, alongside the directors, of the figure of the superior municipal secretaries. We know how important it is to have a bureaucratic structure, for office and accompanying work, in emergency and post-emergency stages such as these. There is the economic support, which I mentioned earlier, with EUR 50 million, together with EUR 27 million, which will go directly to finance the projects of the small municipalities, which constitute a fundamental fabric of our nation, up to 30,000 inhabitants. Then there is the subject of staff, of which I have already mentioned. Mr President, of course, the other issue, the art bonus in Venice and Matera, which is also extended to liberal donations, for the maintenance, protection and restoration of cultural heritage of religious interest, must not be forgotten. I would also like to point out that all the questions relating to interventions for artistic or architectural heritage are already under way in the regions affected by the earthquake. Therefore, from this point of view - and I address my colleagues in the League - no controversy is appropriate, precisely because it lacks any basis. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is quite clear, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that our country is a champion in intervention in the acute phase, but it is a little less so in structural intervention, when the spotlight falls. That is an important intervention in this second phase, and the minority rapporteur has also said so, arguing that something has been done by the Government, including with the measure we are considering, and that there are steps in the right direction. Our call to the whole House is for the commitment to be common, because our citizens must have our utmost attention, after the dramatic events, but above all in the long years of darkness, which they must face when the spotlight is gone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u63	I would like to ask Minister D'Incà, Member of the House, but not Senator, to sit at the government benches, if possible. Unfortunately, it doesn't have the right to sit in the senator's desks. Next time you can get the Senate elected if you want. Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. I'll do it nicely! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Ministers must sit at the Ministers' desks. (Minister D'Incà takes his place again). I'm sure he's happier to sit at the ministers' desks.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u66	MAFFONI (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text before the House, transmitted by the other branch of Parliament, is, as a whole, still insufficient in relation to the inevitable need to give effective and consistent responses to the areas affected by the earthquakes of 2016. This is yet another decree, examined in the Chamber, which arrives here in the Senate only for a mere ratification, which will not allow us to insert norms, even at zero cost, that would have facilitated a rapid reconstruction. This vote of confidence is proof of what we have said both in the Commission and, with the intervention of Senator Nastri, in this House. This is an increasingly abused practice on the part of this Government, which in fact has produced a reform of the Constitution, inserting a de facto monocameralism. This is an unacceptable situation, which undermines the prerogatives of all Members of Parliament and prevents these Houses from becoming a forum for discussion and discussion, from which measures should arise. It is the mirror of this divided and torn majority within it, unable to find a point of synthesis and hoping to hide its weakness, gagging Parliament. We had hoped that, with this so-called decree on the earthquake, which hit central Italy, reconstruction could be started by addressing the many problems that remain open. On the other hand, not only do we not address in this measure the many issues that remain of an emerging nature, but what is more serious will be the consequences of the complex reconstruction procedures that will not start and will not even solve regulatory issues that, as I said earlier, would not have involved any payment of money. In the parliamentary passage to the Chamber of Deputies we had asked the Government and the majority that a season of confrontation be inaugurated with all the interested parties in order to tackle in an organic way the reconstruction, but - above all - that through our amendments the demands coming from the territories be accepted. The closure of the majority, with the rejection of all our proposals, prevented the adoption of a measure aimed at solving the problems rather than moving them forward over time. From Brothers of Italy there was no obstructionism. The accusations that have been made in these days by the majority are laughable and represent an excuse behind which to hide the bitter truth, that of a decree not resolving, but empty. It makes no sense to hear experts and local representatives unless their comments have been duly taken into account in this decree. For example, even from the mayors of Norcia and Visso, from the Technical Professions Network and from the representatives of the Regions we have had the confirmation of what supported from the beginning and that I have evidenced in the course of this my intervention, that the measure under consideration disappoints the expectations of the territories hit by the earthquake and introduces rules so complex that instead of speeding up the reconstruction, they risk to slow it down ulteriorly. We heard in the hearing the fitting remarks of the mayor of Norcia, Nicola Alemanno, about the concrete difficulties of reconstruction of the municipalities affected by the earthquake of Central Italy. Emblematic was the intervention of engineer Spuri, director of the Special Office for Reconstruction Marche, who stressed that immediate corrective measures are necessary to avoid the risk of total paralysis of reconstruction. Measures of which in this decree, unfortunately, there are no traces. In our opinion, if the Government and the majority had used the language, concreteness and competence of the mayors that we have heard both in the Chamber and in the Senate during the examination of this decree-sysm, probably satisfactory results would have been achieved in this measure. And it is even more serious that the issue of hydrogeological failure is completely absent from the government agenda. Sorry to have to be repeated, but this vast majority of resources for citizenship income and to support state welfare, but it does not collect the demands that come from the territory and does not foresee investments to ensure soil safety. This decree-law was an opportunity to demonstrate that this majority is able to look beyond its own chair, to listen to Italians and to show that it cares about the interests of the nation. Our vote will be an abstention because in the Commission the Government has not accepted our amendments which were aimed at facilitating the territories affected by the earthquake. And that is why Brothers of Italy will abstain. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u67	I would like to greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education Marconi-Hack in Bari, in the magnificent Puglia. Thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u70	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is with a little embarrassment and emotion that I am about to make this speech, because the person who took his life yesterday lived three and a half kilometers from where I lived, frequented the same areas, had the same problems, the same hopes, so he had a lot in common with me. Despite this, however, I believe that ours is also a moral duty to move forward, not so much and not only for those who are no longer there, but also and especially for those who are still and still hope that this problem can be solved. President Conte, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber despite having said several times that he would retain the delegation for reconstruction, has, in my opinion, had a fortune that does not happen to everyone in life: a second opportunity. Despite the proactive role of the League in the Government of Count I, which has made it possible to arrive at numerous measures in favour of the earthquake victims, it has not been possible to be decisive and to give that turn in the management of the earthquake, that change of gear that everyone wanted. So, unfortunately, we have not been able to represent the difference that many people wanted. I believe, however, that this luck and this second opportunity that President Conte has had is miserably wasting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But what I wanted to understand is: is he wasting it on bad faith or inability? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] My conviction is that unfortunately this is the second possibility: I believe that President Conte has not been able to understand the needs of this earthquake and to take the necessary measures. Since I understand that this is an important and hard statement to make towards a President of the Council of Ministers, and that accusing the President of the Council of Ministers of inability is a statement which must be supported, bearing in mind what I have just said, I quote the Order 614 of the Head of Civil Protection, which in its heading says clearly "Presidency of the Council of Ministers." Therefore, even if President Conte had not given himself such competence, however, this act would have fallen entirely into his responsibilities. Let's go see what this act provides for. Our President of the Council of Ministers is a professor, a teacher, a self-proclaimed lawyer of the people, so it is assumed that he should know better than anyone else the foundations and principles of our legal system. These principles include non-retroactivity of the norm and legal certainty. With this provision, President Conte violates both of them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, by modifying the rules for the granting of the CAS (a contribution of autonomous accommodation), when the previous discipline had led to decisions by many of the recipients, it not only violates the principle of legal certainty, but also substantially has retroactive effects. In fact, who, for example, had bought a house, because the previous order allowed it, contracting recurring commitments like a mortgage, now sees the discipline modified; this obviously has consequences that we can consider retroactive. This order has, however, also consequences and values in the technical field, because it regulates the contribution of autonomous accommodation for those who have to make a recovery on their home. The order provides for a maximum time for the granting of the CAS which, however, is less than what will technically be necessary for the reconstruction of the dwelling that generated the right. So, if the technicians say it could take even forty months, how does President Conte predict the payment for twenty months? The masterpiece, however, does so in economic terms. The DAC was solicited by all stakeholders interested in reconstruction - first the head of civil protection then, then the presidents of the Regions, then the mayors - because immediately it was understood that SAE (emergency housing solutions) would cost hugely more than a paid DAC even for ten years: on average the triple, without taking into account the costs of the occupation of the land in which SAE were carried out, the costs of the reduction in pristina and the environmental impact of SAE. It is clear, in fact, that in particularly valuable mountain areas, within national parks, building hectares and hectares to build the SAEs already in itself would have been a sufficient reason to prefer the CAS. With the new discipline, therefore, not only is it betrayed the pact that had been made with the State and that implicit agreement that had been signed with the beneficiaries of the CAS, but it is also being carried out an operation that, from an economic point of view, is both against the perceptors, and against the State. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Italy, in fact, emergencies of this type follow with a certain regularity. Next time, then, when it comes to choosing between CAS and SAE, everyone will choose SAE for this betrayal and the State will have to spend at least three times as much as it would have spent. The last aspect I want to highlight is the inequality created between those who made this choice and those who decide to buy a home. So whoever bought a house three months ago loses everything, whoever does it in three months will have a three-year contribution. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Government from a point of view of fairness and justice what is the ratio of this measure, because who, trusting the State, decided three months ago is penalized and who will do so in three months will have a completely different treatment? Why, Undersecretary? Maybe he'll have a chance to talk about it later. I was saying that this provision also has some small positive aspects, for example in the reduction of the Irpef to be returned, which is why the League of the House abstained, which we would have done here too if trust had not been placed. We do not trust President Conte because we do not have the confidence to give him, for all the reasons I have just set out. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will therefore be forced to vote against, unfortunately, although we know that, although little, there was something. As I said before, however, it is unfortunately much more than there is and above all there are many more problematic aspects that this decree introduces. I quote the words of engineer Spuri, responsible for the special office for the reconstruction of the Marche Region, who said that, although little, something had been done. And it's true. First, for example, I reported the data on public works saying that one percent of the value of public works has been rebuilt. That little now risks to stop completely, because every time a measure is adopted it follows the need to adapt the rest of the legislation, therefore following this decree also the ordinances will have to be changed. The majority's reasoning is not acceptable, arguing that it is neither the first nor the last measure, because every time a new measure is adopted, the need to adapt the procedure to the same procedure is lost months. So it is not acceptable for us to say that after we have lost months for the previous measures others will be lost for this and then for the next. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The League, in a proactive spirit, had already made proposals in the Commission of pure common sense which would have had no other consequence than that of improving this measure. With that sense of responsibility, with a spirit of cooperation and with the will that has always marked us, we express our regret that we have not been able to contribute effectively to the improvement of this measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u73	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and thank you to my Parent Company who is here with me, with whom we were discussing precisely why, dear colleague representing the Government, we are, in spite of this, forced to vote no to this earthquake decree. To tell the truth, we at Forza Italia have shown, throughout our history, that we are certainly the closest political formation to the tragedies such as those of natural disasters. In particular, we demonstrated this at the time when Silvio Berlusconi was President of the Council of Ministers in 2009, at the time of the devastating Abruzzo earthquake with epicenter in L'Aquila. I was there in those hours and in the following days, when the emergency was managed and then a rapid reconstruction. It started again with a very virtuous management, with a civil protection structure that worked, with Guido Bertolaso at the head, that we all regret today. Today, on the other hand, I feel like starting out in my speech of merit on this decree-law earthquake with a newspaper title de "Il Resto del Carlino" yesterday, which made me have my colleague - whom I so much esteem - Andrea Cangini: an article by director Michele Brambilla titled "The Italians are there, Italy is not." This title is the exact example of what is happening in the management of the earthquake 2016-2017 and of all the following: a management, that is, inadequate, unable to give real and real solutions, especially on obvious issues. Let us be clear: our criticism concerns both the first and the current majority; indeed, perhaps now some "tampon" measures have been seen. For example, Brambilla - which I mentioned earlier - said that precisely on the day when an earthquake occurred in Mugello the first stone of reconstruction was laid in the Marches. You understand that, at a distance of so much time, it is not possible to give such news. It means that Italy is not there; that Italy is not working. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] A country proves to be such when it has a perfectly functioning Civil Protection, which gives answers to the emergencies that Italians ask for. I am referring in particular to the Italians who need the State. Those who believe in the principle of subsidiarity know well that this is the exact example of what a democratic and liberal state is able to give as an answer to the citizens who need it. Let us look at the points on which, in any case, we will vote no because the government is placed trust. As we all know - as Mr Caliendo reminded us earlier - it is not like in the Chamber of Deputies: the question of trust in a legal text arises without making a difference between the merit of the bill and the trust in the Government. It is a single vote and we must necessarily say that trust in this Government, even as it has managed this earthquake-law, is not there, cannot be given, and we will not give it. Let's get to the point. The measures contained in this measure are inadequate. So far, even today, residents of the Regions of Central Italy - with all those municipalities, even very small, that today, unfortunately, still suffer that emergency - have not yet had accommodations adapted to their housing needs. The inhabitants of those areas are still housed in lucky accommodations or even in prefabricated ones. This, as I said before, did not happen to L'Aquila. In L'Aquila, after only six months, the eagles could return to their city and sleep, live inside houses, buildings among other things highly anti-seismic. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Second question. Three years after the 2016 earthquake, the governance system is very late and in some areas, as I mentioned earlier, especially in smaller municipalities, the state is not even there, it has not been seen, as Brambilla rightly told us in his article. Another issue concerns the three emergencies that are the exact qualification of a non-response of the decree-law on the issues of the earthquake: first of all the housing emergency I said before, but also the absolute inability to start a real reconstruction. A work emergency and an enterprise emergency are also linked to this. That is the truth, because we must help those families, those populations, those citizens not only through a house that must be granted and delivered to them as soon as possible, but also through a system of governance that creates work stability and support for the business world. This is not happening. One issue that had led us to the idea that we could also abstain from the vote, as happened in the House of Deputies, was that of the support that we could have given from the opposition to a measure that is a national emergency, to which also oppositions obviously do not escape and want to make their contribution. Well in the House of Deputies indeed 15 of the many amendments proposed by our Members of Forza Italia have been accepted; few compared to the many that have been proposed. However, this did not happen to the Senate; I had proposed an amendment, which was urged to me by Mayor Quirino D'Orazio of the Municipality of San Benedetto dei Marsi, who is struggling - he and others - to try to give an answer, as soon as possible, to his fellow citizens, giving for example the possibility, with the demolition of the old schools, to make full use of the contributions provided for the new schools and thus allowing young people to go to school safely. Well, that type of amendment has not been accepted at all, indeed, it has not been done precisely by the majority, giving a negative response to those who have such needs in that municipality, as in all the other earthquakeed municipalities. The current government, like the previous one, also and above all through the debate in this House, sees the parliamentary debate compressed; all this sees us absolutely opposed because we would like to make that contribution that we cannot make. Finally, I would like to mention another fundamental aspect which is not contained in the decree-law for post-sysm reconstruction and which, on the other hand, is typical of a political formation such as Forza Italia. The culture of prevention in the measure we examine is non-existent. Only emergencies are taken into account and also inappropriately. It is right to remember that rather than intervening on emergencies we must invest in maintenance, we must secure schools, which risk falling apart and where our children and grandchildren are hosted. Then, dear gentlemen, dear President, dear members of the Giallorossi Government, the vote of Forza Italia for these reasons and also because it would be a vote of confidence in the Government, can only be against. However, I would like all citizens to know that Forza Italia compared to those who suffer and those who face emergencies has always been there and will always be there. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u76	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, since Mr Forza Italia's speech, everything seems to be all right at the Eagle. I believe, however, that we should ask the citizens of the Eagle. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today we are passing a decree-law that has in the concreteness and realism put at the service of the citizens its creed. A measure deliberately devoid of frills and deliciousness, free from the many fanfaronades and shots that all too often in these years we have heard pronounced by many in relation to the areas of the country affected by seismic events. Starting from the one who visited the tent cities, he invited the earthquake victims of the Eagle to go to the sea at Easter, who would pay him so much - do you remember Berlusconi? - [[Applause from the M5S Group]] to arrive at the vain promises of reconstruction in rapid, precise and certain times, even before the end of the legislature, fortunately ended before doing other damages, and to those in more recent times said that it would return to the community countries more beautiful than they were before. In taking note that once again we must remedy what we can call "other people's magazines," we now propose to act definitively with the great respect that the citizens who have been asking for answers have deserved for too long. Colleagues, the earthquake is that event that, when it arrives, can turn your life upside down like no other phenomenon. Finding oneself homeless, without one's own shop and without one's children's school creates a sense of helplessness and pain without equal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Many and too many areas affected by this tragedy in recent years have had to be measured with the frustration of a policy that, thanks also to the chronic lack of resources, has always struggled to make organic proposals and, sometimes, has disregarded the commitments made with an excessive rate of imprudence. Today we try to take a necessary step to accompany the tenacity and temperament of those communities and those citizens who for years have found themselves living in a daily life literally violated by nature. A large package of measures aims to lighten the micro-economys of the affected areas and together to proceed with the first steps necessary to start, this time for real, reconstruction. Seeing the municipalities disemboweled by the earthquake scattered with yards is the best way to launch a signal of hope that has been expected for years now, especially in the devastated areas of Central Italy. In the meantime, the state of emergency has been extended and procedures for public and private reconstruction have been streamlined. On the reconstruction of minor damage, we have extended the deadline for submitting documents to 30 June 2020. To make these processes more efficient, €2 million has been allocated to hire administrative and accounting staff in the municipalities to carry out reconstruction practices. You can proceed with the self-certification of the reconstruction project from minor damages to speed up the practices without the obligation to certify the urban conformity by the technician. In addition, we will have an increase in the contribution for buildings with sack walls and the unblocking of Order No 80 of 2019 for variants in progress to 30 percent for light reconstruction. Finally, local government loans are expected to be extended until 2021. We have also integrated the provisions on the treatment and transport of material resulting from the partial or total collapse of buildings, in order to provide for the updating of regional plans for the management of rubble and speed up the procedures for the same management. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is also a lot about public reconstruction, obviously starting from the schools that will have priority in the various bureaucratic processes. We have extended for the two years 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 the urgent measures for the development of school years in the areas affected by the earthquake. This is the possibility to derogate from the minimum number of pupils per class, as well as to activate additional posts of administrative, technical and auxiliary staff, school manager and director of general and administrative services. The decree, however, also includes more: there is a 60 percent discount on the so-called heavy paycheck, that is those tax and social security charges suspended in the two-year period 2016-2017. For the earthquake victims of Central Italy the series of measures adopted is nourished: it is extended until 1 January 2021 the suspension of the payment of the bills of water, light and gas for the damaged and inactible properties, be they housing houses, professional studies or even companies. We have also extended to the territories of the Municipalities of the Regions of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche, Umbria the measure Rest to the South, eliminating the age limit for the municipalities most affected. We have eliminated the IMU on unusable properties, which are also excluded from the ISEE calculation. In addition, grants and zero-rate loans were allocated to agricultural enterprises. This decree-law then extends the guarantee fund to small and medium-sized enterprises from three to six years, including agri-food companies, for guaranteed amounts of up to 2.5 million euros. We have blocked the increases in the motorway tolls of Rome-Teramo and Rome-Pescara until 2021, a fundamental measure to avoid further inconveniences to those territories. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure provides for 50% advance payments from the professionals involved in the reconstruction and the establishment of a rotation fund. In addition, we have arranged an IRPEF tax facilitated to 7% for pension holders provided by foreign subjects who transfer their residence to the Crater Municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants and the delegation to the Regions to draw up a program of incentives for those who transfer their residence to those Municipalities. Finally, let us give a breath of oxygen to the municipal budgets, extending the suspension of loans granted by the Cassa depositi e loani for the whole year 2020 and 2021. For the earthquake that struck the Municipalities of Casamicciola Terme, Forio d'Ischia and Lacco Ameno of the Island of Ischia on August 21, 2017, we have foreseen that among the functions of the extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction are also those of ensuring the cessation of the hotel assistance and the concomitant granting of the contribution of autonomous accommodation. We have prepared simplifications and, above all, new resources for the post-sysm reconstruction of the Eagle of 2009 and Emilia-Romagna of 2012. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, with this decree-law we wanted to take care of the hard work, aware that it is not easy to return to normal Commons that have suffered an economic and social shock of these proportions. In order to deal with cases of seismic phenomena a framework law would allow to prevent every time the stale logic of emergent situations that are passed on to new ones, when they now have nothing more. One cannot pretend not to see that our country is one of the most seismic risk countries in the world, with a vulnerability amplified by the fragility of our building heritage and by the great density of housing. Given the collaborative climate that accompanied this decree-law, it would not be an unrealizable dream. In the meantime, however, we standardize so many small and great things important for all those thousands of citizens who will find themselves spending another Christmas with great suffering and it is above all to them that I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u77	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u78	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1631, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 123, 24 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Magorno, Arrigoni, Urso, Schifani, Ortis and Ferro. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Dal Mas is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Dal Mas. Montevecchi, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Campagna, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Fattori, Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Di Ferrara, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Dessì, Fattoriolamo, Federi, Fedelori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Fir. Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Barachini, Barboni, Battistoni, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Bonino, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Cesaro, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Faggi, Fantetti, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolenti, Fusco Gallone, Garnero Santanche, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro Iannone, Iwobi Pietra, Lonardo, Lunesu Maffoni, Mangialavori, Margi, Martini, Martelli, Marneri, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Marto, Martelli, Marto, Marto, Marto, Marto, Marto, Marto, Marto Mortini, Morini, Marti, Masini PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1631, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 123, 24 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 279 Majority 140 Favorables 160 Contrars 119]] The Senate approves. [[Applause]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 123. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.54 p.m. and resumed at 3.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u79	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 12 and 13 December 2019 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u80	Mr President of the Senate, kind senators and kind senators, the European Council that will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Brussels is the first after the completion of the appointments of the summits of the European institutions. The new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the College of Commissioners and the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, have been in office since 1 December. On 3 July - I remember - the President of the European Parliament, the Italian David Sassoli, was elected, while on 1 November the President of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, took office. The European institutions can therefore begin to honour their commitment to achieving good policies for European citizens and to providing them with solutions, answers and opportunities. The revival of growth and employment, especially youth, the fight against climate change, support for the green economy are priority objectives and need strong and clear signals from Europe. I am pleased that the centrality of these objectives was reaffirmed by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, on the occasion of the European Parliament's vote in favour of the new Commission on 27 November. The role of the European Council as an expression of national governments remains central in the European path towards achieving these objectives. The greater political complexity of the European elections suggests, in any case, an even greater cohesion between the Heads of State and Government of the European Council. The latter must, in fact, provide a clear and pragmatic political direction in relation to the challenges facing the continent and must also ensure greater effectiveness and intensity in the impetus and support of the European Commission and in the dialogue with the European Parliament, including with a view to strengthening the legislative power of initiative that is incumbent upon the European Parliament. The Italian Government intends, at the European Council, to promote this type of approach towards the other European institutions and, as has just been said, greater cohesion among European leaders. This is not the time in the European family to split up or to split up. International tensions, both political and economic, require the protection of the European economy and its social dimension, which makes our continent unique to the world. So that the element of protection does not appear contradictory, I want to make it clear immediately that, considering the economic and social structure of the Union, protecting oneself here does not mean locking up, because on a global scale we believe that multilateralism is the best instrument for protecting the interests of the Member States, starting with our own State. The prospect of Europe's best future is foreseen, moreover, in the debate and in part of the conclusions of the European Council, in relation to the path towards a conference on the future of Europe, which, as is well known, Germany and France hope can be developed by the Member States and the European institutions from 2020 to the French Presidency of the Union, which will coincide with the first half of 2022. With regard to this initiative, the Franco-German contribution, unlike what appeared emphatically in some newspapers, has so far been limited to a procedural proposal, with a definite timetable. With regard to this exercise, I not only wish to express my support for the objective of sending concrete signals of rapprochement of the European institutions to its citizens, but also to announce that Italy - the Government, I trust with the support of Parliament - will not fail to make its proposals. Within this perimeter, steps such as those of citizens' consultations or reflection on European transnational lists will be enhanced. I will, however, claim an inclusive approach to the Member States and the European institutions, starting with Parliaments, to achieve a path that must not be elitist, but, on the contrary, must be fully involved and thus be able to promote policies that really meet the needs of citizens. It is precisely the needs of citizens that will have to be at the heart of the debate that the European Council will be called upon to address first and foremost with regard to climate change. This is a subject that certainly affects the future of Europe. This European Council will enter into the heart of the European Union's ambition on this issue, following the difficult debate that took place at the European Council last June, which also recorded distant and sceptical positions on the part of some Member States. We consider the reference in the conclusions of the European Council to the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 to be appropriate. We consider the clear references in the conclusions to both the impetus that the transition to climate neutrality can and must give economic growth and employment both to investment and Europe must be able to act in good time in support of such a transformation. This energy transition cannot be without an appropriate time schedule, which avoids negative effects on the production system or even more on employment levels. It is with this in mind that the European Investment Bank's recent commitment to supporting green investments worth EUR 1,000 billion and the European Commission's commitment to launch a European green deal, outlined in a communication that was published a few hours ago, late in the morning. Italy looks with appreciation at these commitments, with the awareness that it is well positioned in this ambitious European path, thanks to various national measures that have been launched in the field of climate change. We therefore intend to accompany and support this European effort to adapt to the inescapable objective, including for the future of the continent, of climate neutrality by 2050. As already mentioned, we will ensure that in this transition, including industrial, the European institutions adequately support the social dimension linked to the green economy, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and the European level playing field. In this context, the European economic effort to support this process of transformation is essential and it is particularly essential that it does not go to the detriment of traditional cohesion policies. Another issue of the European Council which concerns Europe in the coming years is the multiannual financial framework. In October, the Finnish Presidency was given a mandate to present a negotiating framework that takes into account the different sensitivities that have emerged so far in relation to the various hubs of this negotiation, namely: the overall level of the budget, the allocation of resources between the different policies, the conditionality for access to and use of funds, the sources of funding, including proposals for new own resources. The negotiating box on the multiannual financial framework was presented by the Finnish Presidency only on 2 December. It contains some assumptions for the allocation of funds, which the Italian Government considers unsatisfactory. This is a downward proposal, because it involves significant expenditure reductions, but above all it is unbalanced overall. Significant cuts in policies for competitiveness, innovation, immigration management, security and defence are envisaged. These cuts, if pursued, would unduly weaken the modernisation efforts, which we consider essential to introduce in the European budget 2021-2027 in order to address challenges which, moreover, are consistent with the Union's strategic agenda. The debate on the multiannual financial framework at tomorrow's European Council will, however, be mainly procedural, because, like Italy, there are also other Member States which consider the proposal of the Finnish Presidency to be inadequate. It is therefore to be expected that the European Council will merely look forward to further negotiations on this front. For my part, I will continue to affirm in Europe the Italian position, at whose definition the Government works with reinforced coordination, under the leadership of the Ministry of European Affairs, in close liaison with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which provides for a timely collegial moment in the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs. I would remind you that on 15 November I myself chaired the meeting devoted to the multiannual financial framework. The Government intends to continue to advocate a more balanced approach, calling for a thorough review of the Finnish proposal, which will converge towards the architecture proposed by the European Commission since 2018. This demand will be declined by us throughout the negotiations. The European Commission - as I recall - had assumed an expenditure ceiling of 1.11% of the gross national income of the 27 Member States, for a total of 1,135 billion euros, over seven years: a volume almost similar to that in force. This proposal, which, despite Brexit, would have allowed an improvement in the overall balance for our country compared to the current European budget, which will end next year. The Finnish Presidency's proposal, which reduces the overall expenditure ceiling by 1.07% (a total volume of EUR 1.087 billion is mentioned) seems completely inadequate and even far from the European Parliament's indications for an even more ambitious budget. Parliament - as I recall - has proposed the 1.3% threshold. Linked to the overall volume of expenditure, the question arises of the sources of funding for the common European budget. On this front, Italy has always supported the need to modernise the way in which the European Union finances its budget, since, in the absence of new own resources, there will be no possibility of easing the dependence of the European budget on the contributions of the Member States, nor of allowing sufficient autonomy for the development of common policies of the Union. On this subject, however, the convergence of the Member States is directed only towards the introduction of the plastic resource (by deliberately using quotation marks), i.e. that resource resulting from the quantity of plastic packaging waste not recycled in each Member State, equal to 0.8 cents of euro per kilogram. The Italian side has in the past - but it will be reiterated - expressed the opposition to this limited and minimalist approach, which does not include other proposals initially formulated by the Commission, such as the resource derived from the EU's emissions trading system, the so-called Emissions trading system, or the definition of the Common consolidated corporate tax base, key to future own resources and the harmonisation of multinational taxation systems between the various Member States of the European Union. With regard to individual policies, the Government intends to oppose disproportionate cuts that would affect strategic sectors such as space, digital, defence and security. This would be a subtraction of resources from the new priorities of the European Union, which must, on the contrary, remain ambitious. Even on traditional policies (I am talking about cohesion and the common agricultural policy, where only limited progress is emerging) Italy is determined to draw and maintain some red lines. In cohesion policy, the further contraction of the relative prosperity index, which in our country would result in the most difficult regions being penalised, is unacceptable. With regard to the common agricultural policy, our main concern remains the external convergence of direct payments, on which we will continue to call for guarantees of its definitive and possibly immediate abolition. We will pursue the goal of abolition together with the many partners who share the same concerns with us, in particular that this mechanism no longer responds to the aim of promoting the rational development of European agricultural production, its technical progress and its priority objective of contributing to the ecological transition. They are - if you like - less incisive, but no less objectionable the reductions envisaged for the new instrument of international cooperation, the new DICI (Neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument). It is essential to bear in mind that a strong external projection remains crucial for the European Union, which intends to play a credible role in relation to the rest of the world and respond effectively to the challenge of multi-level migration governance. In this respect, it should also be said that the overall volume of development aid should be able to benefit - but the way ahead is still long - from greater coordination of the resources provided by the individual Member States. To put it simply, the European Union as a whole is the world's largest donor, without its flattering position being confirmed in terms of geopolitical influence. And I think, in particular, of the African continent, but not only. Finally, I would like to point out that there are also forms of conditionality already in place in the budget which will close in 2020, such as macro-economic conditionality, as well as new conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law, migration and respect for the environment. Italy is committed to ensuring that the translation of these shared principles and common rules does not lead to the tightening of European budgetary rules, but rather will ensure that these principles and rules serve as a guideline towards achieving common standards, in line with the values that the European Union expresses from its very beginnings. It is expected that the conclusions of this summit will include an invitation to the Commission and the High Representative to provide elements for a strategic debate at the June European Council on relations between the European Union and Africa and the forthcoming summit between the European Union and the African Union. Italy supports this approach, also for the reasons I have already summarized earlier. We continue to stress, both in Europe and with our African counterparts, that the European Union must give a broad strategic dimension to a partnership between equals, the only possible vision from the point of view of Italy and this Government for a successful policy. Equally appropriate is the reference in the conclusions of the European Council to concern about the paralysis of the World Trade Organisation's trade dispute settlement mechanism and to support the European Commission in its efforts to identify transitional remedies with third countries pending a permanent solution. What is at stake - and this is also confirmed by the outcome of the talks I had last week in London at the NATO summit, but they are confirmations that also come from the latest international symposiums such as the G7 and the G20 - is not only that of the operation of a global body for the management of trade disputes. The stakes are much higher: this is about the trust between states, between continents, thanks to which since the Second World War it has been possible to build an international architecture consistent with the common values of freedom and democracy. Cracking the foundations of this multilateral order based on shared rules - we are always talking about the World Trade Organisation - is likely to cause far-reaching damage not only from an economic point of view but also from a political point of view. It is therefore essential to preserve unity, European cohesion and support for the European Commission, in particular with a view to restoring a positive trade agenda with the United States to the strategic value of transatlantic relations. The European Council will also address the six-monthly debate on the state of implementation of the Minsk arrangements. The discussion will be introduced by Chancellor Merkel and President Macron, who will inform the European Council, in particular with regard to the outcome of the recent Summit of Heads of State and Government of the so-called Normandy Format. This summit was held on Monday 9 December. The resumption of the negotiations between the parties is essential for Italy; a positive outcome of this discussion, with a view to the full implementation of the Minsk agreements, however, we intend to continue working with the European partners. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that Italy intends to pursue a firm approach, according to which sanctions are not an end in themselves, but an instrument aimed at starting a solution to the Ukrainian crisis. In the debate, if not in the conclusions of the European Council, the question of Turkey's respect for sovereignty and sovereign rights over the exclusive economic zones of all its neighbouring countries could finally arise at the request of another Member State. The issue, which has already been addressed by the European Councils in June and October (and I also recall the Councils in March and June 2018), is now highlighted not only as regards Ankara's interference in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus, on which Italy continues to support European support in Cyprus, but also as a result of the recent signature of two memorandas signed by Turkey with the Libyan GAN on the security and delimitation of their exclusive economic zones. It is important that the European Council reiterates its support for the Member States bordering on the Eastern Mediterranean and the call for full respect for international law; it is equally essential that these signals do not result in a endorsement of the slowdown in the political process for the stabilisation of Libya and in a postponement of the Berlin Conference, which we support. The subjects I have discussed so far will feature the working sessions of the European Council at 28 on Thursday 12 December. The next day, the Heads of State and Government of the 27 Member States will meet at the Euro Summit, the so-called Eurosummit, which will have on the agenda the theme of deepening economic and monetary union, i.e. the reform of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, the Banking Union and the budgetary instrument for competitiveness and convergence, on the basis of the work of the newly concluded Eurogroup on 4 December. I repeat here what I have already pointed out in the information given to Parliament on Monday, 2 December, about the consistency and transparency of information which have always characterized the intercourse between the Government and Parliament on such a complex and sensitive subject. Moreover, Minister Gualtieri and I have personally explained and demonstrated that the revision of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism does not make substantial changes to the existing Treaty and in particular does not introduce - and it is our firm intention that this does not happen - any automatism in the restructuring of a state's debt, but leaves to the European Commission the fundamental role of assessing its sustainability and ensuring the overall coherence of macroeconomic analyses carried out on the Member States. As I have already pointed out during my very recent information on 2 December, here, the ESM is not addressed against a particular country or built to the benefit of some countries and to the detriment of others. ( [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ). It is insurance against the danger of financial panic infection for the benefit of all. In particular, Italy has nothing to fear, also because its debt is fully sustainable, as evidenced by the assessments of the main international institutions, including the European Commission, and as confirmed by the markets. We must therefore be careful to insinuate doubts and fears in Italian citizens, especially since at least some of the positions that have emerged in the course of the public debate have unveiled the bad hope of taking our country out of the eurozone or even the European Union. But if that is the objective, then it would be appropriate to clarify it explicitly, so that the public debate is transparent and the Italian citizens can be informed of all the implications that these positions have with them. It is true that a debate carried out in a very confusing way risks causing suspicion in the markets and international institutions that we are ourselves to doubt the commitment to maintain the debt on a path of full sustainability, and this would be a way to damage the savings of Italians. The revision of the ESM is only part of a new European architecture that will be designated in the coming months and years. Some elements of this new architecture must be considered together with the revision of the ESM Treaty. In view of the importance and complexity of the process of deepening European economic and monetary union, I have considered it essential to keep Parliament informed on time, personally, but also through the relevant Ministers, on all occasions when Italy will be called upon to express its position in the European fora in the various stages of the negotiations on the future of economic and monetary union and on the conclusion of the reform of the ESM. Parliament, in its resolution of last June, gave a mandate to the Government to express an overall strategy on the reform package, in the knowledge that Italy must play an active and proactive role in its definition. On this point, I can only reiterate what I have already wished for in the information given, both to the Chamber of Deputies and to the Senate, on 2 December, namely - I recall - that Parliament, with its authority, by virtue of its democratic legitimacy, helps to bring to Europe the voice of a strong country, of a cohesive country that is committed to strengthening the European institutions according to a plan that, obviously respecting our national interest, leads to a more robust architecture and a more balanced sharing of risks. The position of the Government in Europe will always be consistent with the guidelines defined by the Chambers. The Government, therefore, will continue to operate according to a package logic, ensuring the overall balance of the various elements at the heart of the reform process of economic and monetary union and assessing with the utmost attention the critical points. We consider that, in particular, restrictive measures on the holding of sovereign securities by financial institutions and banks and, in any case, the weighting of the risks of government securities through the revision of their prudential treatment, as well as the provisions providing for a contribution by financial institutions to EDIS on the basis of the portfolio risk of government securities, are negative. In the next steps in the negotiations on the banking union, we will promote the introduction of the common deposit insurance scheme (so-called EDIS), a secure European bond. If you remember, already in the information of 2 December I spoke of a safe asset, if anything in the form of eurobonds. We will also strive for a greater risk weight of Level 2 and 3 assets, which are more liquid instruments, linked to their degree of concentration on the total assets of the individual credit institution. In the event of a request to activate the European Stability Mechanism, Parliament will have to be fully involved in a clear coordination and approval procedure. On Friday 13 December there will also be a meeting of the European Council of 27, following the general elections in the United Kingdom, which we hope will contribute to an orderly Brexit which - I remind you - is scheduled for 31 January 2020. The government - rest assured - continues to work to protect citizens' rights and preserve trade for our businesses. Even after Brexit, the United Kingdom will undoubtedly remain an important partner for the European Union, in particular for Italy. Once the withdrawal agreement has been ratified, we will be ready to actively contribute to a new partnership between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This negotiation on future relations will be difficult - let us not hide it - especially because of the limited time available. It will also be necessary to maintain strong unity between the 27 Member States and the institutions, but this unity has been exhibited and preserved since the start of the negotiations in 2017. Italy supports the use of working methods and cooperation between the Commission and Member States which have so far proved successful during the Brexit process negotiation phase. And, if you will excuse me, I would like to stress that Michel Barnier's permanence in the leadership of the new task force for relations with the United Kingdom is an important factor in continuity. In any case, the benefits that the United Kingdom will be able to derive from future reports will be proportionate - on this we will work hard - to those that will be the commitments that London will be ready to make. An ambitious partnership, for example, cannot be without adequate mobility for exchanges between our citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u81	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u82	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the teachers and students of the Hotel Institute in Molfetta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u83	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to start with a phrase that I have often heard repeated by the President-in-Office of the Council, namely: The Italian debt is fully sustainable. Why, maybe someone could come here and say something else? A slaughterhouse would happen in zero time, so sentences of this kind are so obvious that they shouldn't even be said. Before I go into detail on the subject I would like to talk about, namely the European Stability Mechanism and its revision, I would like to point out that there is no European economy as a whole: there are so many competing national economies. I do not say that, says the European Commission and its own acts, when they say that state aid is always illegal because it alters the regular competition between economies and between businesses. Therefore, there is no European economy, just as there is no social dimension, since the European Commission always states that the creation or destruction of jobs within the eurozone is not important at the time of the signing of a free trade treaty, the important thing is that the overall mass of jobs increases. So even the second statement is not true. Let us move forward with regard to the ESM Treaty. The problem is not the revision of the ESM, because the revision of the ESM is consistent with the ESM, which in turn is consistent with what we could call Dr Frankenstein's project, namely the construction of the European Union. The MES is the heart of this monster and we could say that the revision is an upgrade of the heart, that is the improved version of the old artificial heart. But what brings life to Frankenstein's monster? It leads to a live Frankenstein monster. The real problem is therefore the ESM itself, which is the opposite of the mutual and social vision of the European Union, because it is nothing more than a huge banking body whose purpose is to lend money in conditional mode, it has the power to issue cover bonds, i.e. to securitisation debt exactly like a business bank and, moreover, compared to normal banks, it has the power to tell you what you have to do to obtain successive tranches of loans. Moreover, the ESM, in its formulation, also has the power to lend money to the single bank resolution fund, which is what must establish - bail-in docet, because it is incorporated - the conditions for a banking system to receive money. Therefore, when it is said that the ESM is not used to save the banks of the eurozone nations, it is a lie: the ESM is also used for that. That said, within the MES - not its revision, because it could be made up of those four candied cherry over the cake, where the MES is the cake, so let's not worry about cherry, but about the cake itself and for itself - the collective action clauses are contained. I have heard, with pride, that the collective action clauses (CACs) have been blocked by a single majority. This means that a minority can oppose the restructuring of a sovereign debt. Already the fact that we are talking about restructuring a sovereign debt should raise not an antenna, but all the antennas and also the paws, but obviously this is also good. I would remind you that the collective action clauses are still present and are those which, in fact, put an entire nation under pressure in the event of a restructuring. To conclude, since the four minutes at my disposal are short, I would like to point out that when a State accesses the conditional resources provided by the ESM, the ESM becomes a privileged creditor: this makes sense if we talk about private banking bodies, but the ESM becomes a privileged creditor also compared to the small saver, who perhaps sees a haircut of his investments in a few treasury bonds. Well, is this the social dimension contained in the European Union? The only possible answer, by concluding with a joke, to the ESM and to this type of treaty is: dear European Union, we want you to go to the door and take away your treaties and everything else. We do not want 80% of Italian laws to be made by the European Commission. We don't want it. Whoever wants this, it is right that he also wants the European Stability Mechanism. [[Applause from Senators Nugnes and De Bonis]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u86	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Stability Mechanism, also known as the State-Save Fund, is an international organisation which over time has assumed the role of an intergovernmental organisation with the task of helping those States which have adopted the single currency if they are in financial difficulties. In other words, the role of the ESM is to provide assistance to Member States in difficulty by providing them with financial resources linked to certain strict conditionality. The revision of the Treaty establishing the ESM is therefore also the result of an intergovernmental agreement, since the proposal for a regulation which had tried to integrate it into the European Union's legal system has not been shared. The review of the mechanism is and must be assessed in close connection with the completion of the banking union through the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme and with the implementation of the convergence and competitiveness budget to be used to promote the growth of member countries. The connection between all these elements derives from the logic of the overall package recalled in the resolution approved by the Senate on June 19, 2019, in view of the summit of June 21, with which the Government undertook to oppose regulatory arrangements that forced some countries towards pre-defined and automatic restructuring of sovereign debts. These are commitments which the Government and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have fulfilled, as you informed us in detail in this House on 2 December. One of the novelties of the revision compared to the current Treaty is the common support mechanism, the so-called backstop, to the single resolution fund, which, in turn, is one of the elements of the banking union. It makes it possible to double the amount of resources available, although it still does not go beyond the rules on the resolution of credit institutions. There are certainly some critical aspects to be explored such as the introduction, as from 1 January 2022 for newly issued euro area government bonds with a maturity of more than one year, of the collective action clauses with a single majority approval, the so-called singlelimb DACS. For these, rules and procedures need to be defined, avoiding excessive simplification of contractual procedures for debt restructuring. On the other hand, some of the elements of the package, in particular on the completion of the banking union and, therefore, on insurance on bank deposits, are to be rejected the proposals for the allocation of an unjustified level of risk for our government bonds held by Italian banks. It would not make sense to attribute a level of risk to government bonds in European countries and at the same time ignore the risk - this is more realistic and high - brought about by those securities and liquids kept in the balance sheets of some foreign bank. That is precisely why the signing of the proposed revision of the ESM had to be postponed, as has been done, with the aim of preventing Europe from continuing to feed on the other necessary reforms asymmetries and inequalities that we should finally close down. I am sure that you are well aware of the issues to be discussed and the critical issues of the current debate. The ESM therefore needs to be deepened. These days, however, some opposition members have heard all about the consequences of a revision of the ESM Treaty. This revision, whether or not we share the system of the mechanism, does not change much the substance of the original text. There is talk of night-time withdrawals on the current accounts of Italians; the exit from the euro is again feared; it is said that the argument must not be taboo. I agree that the subject should not be taboo. We can and must talk about the functioning of the euro, the fact that so far it has actually worked through the devaluation of labour, has facilitated with the elimination of the exchange risk the free movement of capital, promoting tax and wage dumping, promoting the deindustrialization of our country and some other causes of our current economic decline. But it is not a question of taboo, it is a practical question: the exit from the euro is not a solution. The solution is indicated to us by some important Euro-critical economists who are mentioned in these days, such as Joseph Stiglitz, according to which the exit from the euro, for our country, would have a cost and the best solution would instead be to work for a reform of the eurozone, reaching a risk sharing among the Member States and completing the banking union with the single guarantee on deposits to avoid the flight of capital from the weak countries to the strong ones. That is exactly what we are saying in our resolution and what you have just said in your communication. It is therefore clear that only a reform of the European Union capable of making the institutions more flexible and more suitable for facilitating cooperation between the Member States can help Italy and Europe to emerge from the difficult economic situation in which it has emerged. It is difficult; resistance from other states is not lacking and, at times, I confess that they are also unbearable. This, however, is the way forward, even by imposing the logic of the package. We must not go along with those opposition leaders who talk about the ESM at times a little unknowingly, with jokes that are now becoming more and more boring to people, alternating anti-European invectives with anti-Nutella invectives. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] This is certainly not the method to be followed, but it is clear that the rules of stability and growth followed so far have produced fragile stability and little growth, which often affects only the wealthiest sections of the population. I believe that we are setting the right path, as an Italian Parliament: this is the path that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have begun to follow in Europe, but it must be made clear and pointed out that the economic rules that we have imposed on ourselves over the last twenty or thirty years, perhaps even in good faith by some, have not worked. And, again to quote Stiglitz, when the rules don't work, it's time to change them. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u87	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your pragmatic and coherent communications have the merit of reducing the scope of a surreal debate, that of the ESM, which exists only in Italy and which is counterproductive for it, but which is managed from the operational point of view very carefully by Minister Gualtieri, in order to give space - I hope - to a real and crucial debate for the future of the whole of Europe, in which Italy has a lot to say, that of the multiannual financial framework. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we must not hesitate to criticize the European Union even harshly, but it is better if we do so where it really deserves it, as on the multiannual financial framework, rather than on almost imaginative and surreal issues, such as the ESM issue. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have been critical, talking about the multiannual financial framework that is being proposed, but I think we can be even tougher. Let us place ourselves for a moment when the multiannual financial framework that expires has been decided, 2013; then the following words were not even imagined in the European framework: massive immigration; terrorism in Europe; Brexit; Trump (he is an opponent of European integration sitting in Washington); Xi Jinping, an imperial technological power whose international prestige is continually raised by what the President of the United States does; the Putin and Erdogan themselves, who were there, but who were quite different in their attitude towards Europe than they are today; and, fortunately, the sensitivity to climate change has finally increased. Well, compared to this changed world for Europe and around Europe, which has changed most of the time in a hostile sense, we are presenting ourselves with the presumption that 1.11% of the European gross national income proposed by the European Commission is excessive (as the Finnish Presidency, which speaks of 1.07%, as you reminded us, that others say too much). Here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that Italy is right to push for greater adequacy of the European budget. Moreover, it is no longer - I hope I can say - a question of spending in Italy, the one to which the others dispute that they are always in favour of larger amounts, so much is accustomed to debt: no, except for fringes that we still have well present, the public debt disturbs Italy. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with a simple reflection: the concerns which also inspire the so-called sovereignist parties, relating to immigration, terrorism, the defence of Europe and so on, can all be resolved to a large extent only at European level, it is necessary to have European public goods in order to combat them. So here is a space, in my opinion, in which the Government can seek, with the interest of all the members of the parliamentary assemblies, to develop persuasive proposals from the Italian side. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u89	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say to President Conte that I am truly sorry about the way in which the last sitting was held with his communications on the ESM; basically, because I witnessed a chest attack on those who saw the subject and not on an important issue such as signing the ESM agreement. A defensive of its own elaborate that, in fact, has exonerated the Chambers from a confrontation and from a debate that was subsequently to arise in a document unitary and guarantee for the Italians, for the savings of the Italians, for the future of our children, for the future of our enterprises and not for the future of one or the other party. Maybe she's a little in the middle of people, and she's too locked up in these palaces. People are tired of trivial polemics and want, by those who are called to govern a country, clear, decisive answers and guarantees. What we have seen, however, has been an argument, perpetrated in his defence and in his work. I don't know if you're the people's attorney or yourself! He drew up notes (and here comes out his vein of professor) on some senators because they had made mention of the ESM. But let me ask you one question: on the ESM, did you not have any doubt that those few lines of the June communications were too few, too far off, to have a debate that would involve Parliament and then lead to a shared document? Or did you think you could sign the ESM by taking full responsibility? I'm not full of powers. You see, Mr President, perhaps you forget that the senators represent territories, social realities, different sensitivities due to political membership and the place of origin. As critical as they may be to the Government, they can be a source from which to draw to find cross-cutting solutions and give answers to all critical issues. It would be a shared responsibility, relieving you too of this task and making it strong in the face of other European countries. Every now and then it is worth playing in the team and, if you really don't want to go this way, at least you have had the chance to confront more ideas, picking up the most interesting ideas. In fact, the ESM theme is very technical and embraces a mechanism consisting of an intergovernmental organisation. In addition to technicians, delegates from the Member States are also present. Is this minimum participation enough to give a political aspect? Mah! What about democracy? Too many powers entrusted to the Director-General, who can do the good and bad time. Our proposal is that of the European Parliament, which is the only democratically elected European body of the peoples of Europe. In other words, we must create a guarantee fund for everyone, but under the control of the European Parliament. The majority vote must be revised, because this benefits the strongest countries, in the first place Germany and France. In addition, the vote should be unanimous, in order to prevent the use of a country's money even if the country has voted against it. The European Stability Mechanism is putting Italian savings at risk. We at Forza Italia have always been convinced Europeanists, but the MES, built in this way, represents a serious risk for a country as heavily indebted as Italy. I wonder: if we ever draw on the fund saves states, how do you plan to restructure a constantly increasing public debt with zero growth? Patrimonial? Forced withdrawal from current accounts? What seems most obvious is that we must make growth policies for our country. We must lighten the bureaucracy, reform the justice that must give faster answers, we must attract foreign investment and not let them escape, as in the case of former Ilva, and lower taxes, lower taxes, lower taxes! We have to do this, and now, if we really love our country. Another important issue to be addressed at the next European Council is climate change. We must all be aware of what is happening to our planet and try to respond by providing solutions that can proceed towards environmental sustainability, safeguarding industrial and economic development, increasing investment in research and innovation, ensuring investment plans for the regeneration of large cities, planning the recovery and saving of the territory and energy efficiency, but above all evaluating and implementing sustainable mobility. The multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 must take into account the reduction in the EU budget due to the UK's exit of around 13 billion. To this lack either Member States contribute from other own resources or, as assumed by the Union, require the examination and review of the architecture of the own resources system. The Commission proposes confirming the three own resources but modernising them, i.e. keeping customs duties unchanged as traditional EU own resources, but reducing the percentage that Member States retain as collection costs from 20% to 10%; maintaining their own resource based on gross national income; simplifying the VAT-based own resource. Then there are three other assumptions, namely: 20% of the revenue from the emissions trading system; 3% of the levy applied to the new common consolidated corporate tax; a national contribution calculated on the basis of the amount of waste that is not recycled and plastic packaging. Italy is also considering the situation of the web tax but, considered duties that want to impose us, perhaps it is necessary to think about it. In addition to this, account must be taken of the new priorities that have emerged in recent years, such as the management of the migratory factor and the challenges for both internal and external security of the European Union; important and necessary resources have been allocated to them. Of course, there are countless cuts in the common agricultural policy and it should be borne in mind that future investments in relation to the CAP should be envisaged. Therefore, it would be necessary to invest to try not to exploit the territory, but a greater return profitability, investing in technology and giving the necessary answers, taking into account also the increase of the world population. This could also be an export system that could give our domestic GDP the resources we are looking for. Finally, I would like to ask the President: do not dismiss Parliament because, in addition to being the home of democracy, it is a forge of ideas. President, do not isolate yourself in Europe. Remind yourself and the other partners that we are a founding country, as well as direct contributors, and we demand a role as protagonists, not of appearance. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u91	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u92	Mr President, the United Nations World Weather Organisation reported three weeks ago on the situation of the presence of climate gases in our atmosphere. Well, the data are inexorable: despite the commitments, for the first time formalized in Paris by dozens and dozens of states at the international level, the concentration of carbon dioxide is at the levels at which it was three to five million years ago, when the temperature was, compared to today, greater from two to three degrees centigrade and the seas were higher from ten to twenty meters. The same can be said for the situation of methane - we are told by the United Nations - and also for nitrogen oxide, with emissions rising above the annual average. We are talking, Mr President, about the facts of today's situation. It is quite clear that, when we talk about climate emergency, we are not talking about a situation to come, but we are simply seeing the emergency already in place. On the other hand, one of the key pillars of this government's programme agreement is called green new deal, and this certainly calls - as I have already said in some speeches in this House - to the new deal of the 1930s, when a system crisis was recognized and, consequently, from the United States onwards, organic policies for system reform were built and defined. And so we must do the same today on the environmental issue: organic and systematic reforms in the fiscal, social, infrastructural and economic fields and of course also of behaviour in consumption and mentality. No one escapes that the necessary ecological transition is not a walk in a flowery Eden, but rather a complicated crossing, as necessary. And it will be possible to cross this territory only when, to environmental sustainability, we have the ability to pair economic sustainability and social sustainability. To do this, Mr President, we need statesmen capable of thinking about tomorrow; we need economic resources and we need the courage of system reforms. The objectives of the European Union are clear, they have also been communicated this morning by the President of the European Commission and will of course be discussed in the debate of the European Council in the coming days. In a nutshell, I mention the central elements on which to focus: if the objective is that of carbon neutrality of 2050 - as President Conte rightly pointed out - it is quite clear that we cannot avoid imposing the reduction of 50% in 2030. A first European climate law, a climate pact with citizens and a new European industrial strategy are therefore needed. I am simply quoting the objectives that the European Commission has set itself, taking very precise dates and giving each of the Commissioners the objectives for achieving them. Among the objectives are also a new circular economy plan; an effective energy efficiency programme; a structural action for reforestation; an organic reform of agricultural policies; a policy for smart mobility; a definition of zero emissions standards in transport, including private transport, shifting 75% of road and air traffic to iron. Further, politically complicated, but absolutely challenging yards are also needed: the construction site must be opened on the green reform of state aid policies. We need a farm-to-fork measure to reduce food waste. Green investment must be separated from the deficit: we know that there is also a very heated debate at European level, but a golden rule is needed and the work that is preparing Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri and which will open in January must be followed with great determination. It is important to continue the discussion and application of carbon tax, i.e. the tax to charge polluting products from third countries. Finally, it is absolutely central to bind future trade agreements to compliance with the Paris Agreement. Of course, within this - as I said before - social sustainability is needed and therefore the 100 billion that the European Commission has defined and will put in the years 2021-2027 to mitigate and accompany the social transition is a challenge to be fully grasped. Mr President, of course I was talking about the Paris Agreement: we must, with the responsibility of our Government and the strengthening of the European Union in this direction, bring the debate to a global level as well. It is certainly alarming, President, that an important country such as the United States of America has taken off the Climate Agreement. On the other hand, we also have climate negationists in our nation and in our Parliament. We are well aware that Senator Salvini and the entire League have even voted against the Paris Climate Agreement. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And it is precisely this shortsighted and insane policy for present and, above all, future generations that we must fight. So, Mr President, good work and good results for us and for future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I welcome from your speech the hope that citizens can be informed and interpret it as a political success of the League. The fact that you have raised this debate gives you this hope, which is clearly for the future, given that there have been no major traces of transparency and loyal willingness to share the content of one of the key points of the forthcoming European Council, namely the reform of the ESM agreement. I say this for conclusive facts: just think of the fact that, since Paolo Savona left the Ministry for European Affairs, you have decided to concentrate the delegations related to that Ministry, rather than wanting to share them with a Minister, in particular with a Minister of the League, which you did then when the negotiation went more or less into port, as you seemed to wish, or perhaps not, you do not understand. In fact, it has not really been understood, among other things, whether this negotiation has gone through and this is a problem of method, which I have already highlighted in the previous sitting. But there is also another aspect to be highlighted. You have rightly stigmatized the risk of creating irrational fears, but for this there is a very simple remedy, which is the full and timely observance of the rules of parliamentary involvement. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today is 11 December: a week has passed since the Eurogroup and we still do not know whether the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will honour the Finance and Treasury Commission with the invitation it received, to describe what happened to that Eurogroup. We are sure that it will do so, even if it remains an unresolved issue for me: why is a treaty, which - according to your words - is harmless, does not make substantial changes and for Italy is even useless, has been brought to the attention of Members in similar ways to those with which the TTIP (Transatlantic trade and investment partnership) was presented to MEPs, that is, closed room, prohibition of taking notes and prohibition of communicating with the outside world? Evidently so harmless he was not, if he had to be kept under such secrecy constraints. However, I would not speak - as my colleagues in the Lower House have done - of treason, and I would not use these bright tones. We are not facing a melodrama, a Tristan and Isotta. It seems to me more like an Italian comedy, than those set in the province, like "He, she, the other": Darling, it's not what you think. Give it to me and I will marry your plan to counter European powers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's been like this for a long time, but it's not time to recriminate. It is worth remembering, however, when this comedy was interrupted, that is, when we had the plastic confirmation that the Group of our former allies would no longer support us, as it had done, in our action to try to counter and provide alternative proposals compared to what came from Europe as a prepacked package. I think there are a few slight problems of method in everything that has happened, which I would like to bring to the attention of my President and my fellow Members. In summary, I would say that God is dead, the European Union is dying and the majority is not too well, but we see this in the Budget Committee. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I support the fact that the European Union is dying, because we cannot sell this Agreement, with these contents, concluded in this way, as a great success of the European political project, because it is not. Napoleon asked to give him generals not good but lucky. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, unfortunately you have the misfortune that, at this very moment, on the blog of the London School of Economics and Political Science, Paul De Grauwe, which is to my science as Irnerio, who looks at us from up there, is to yours, explains to us why this agreement does not work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The first reason is political. It is quite clear that the attempt to communitize, that is to introduce the Community method into the mechanic of the fund saves States, has failed and this is not a premiere. Let us think about the fiscal compact, which Article 16 provides for the obligation to transpose into the Treaties after a trial period of five years. There was no transposition. This means that it is believed that the parameters of the fiscal compact have been bankrupt or that no one in Europe wants to put our face or has the political will to transpose them into the Treaties. Well: these bankruptcy treaties are exactly what the ESM, in the reformed version, transposes. The ESM, in turn, is a further failure. In 2015 it started with the idea of making a European Monetary Fund, including this in the Treaties and subjecting it to a political circuit involving the intervention of the European Parliament or - at least - that does not undermine the role of the Commission. In this respect, the project has failed. The role of the Commission has been compressed. We cannot trivialise this story, because it is a step, perhaps a small one, but in a totally wrong direction compared to what is proposed to us as a salvage for the European project. Do we want to talk about the fact that the reform was intended to streamline the financial support mechanism for countries in crisis? Yes, it does, but on conditions that perhaps only Germany is part of today. All the other countries that are outside have exactly the same support as before, i.e. submit to a memorandum. So, in fact, we have an institutionalization of the Troika, which no one wanted in words, and neither did you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. But in the end, we find ourselves with this soup. Why? Mah! There was also the idea of strengthening the bank rescue mechanism, the Single Resolution Fund, but we are genuinely doing it with two change. The resources of the Single Resolution Fund plus those paid in the ESM are, together, around a quarter of the funds that were needed to save the banks in the North and South until 2014. What are we talking about? When there is a crisis, what is needed in the civilised countries, that is, a central bank intervention. You don't understand what this MES is for. You tell us that everyone wants it, but then you don't understand why they didn't get it in the treaties. I insist that, from my point of view, the ESM is a moment of weakness in the European project. There are also problems of method in our country. The lack of involvement of Parliament must end. I hope that you, Mr Conte, will be the bearer of Mr Gualtieri's desire to see him and listen to him on what happened at the last meeting of the Eurogroup. This must also end because, without the involvement of the parliaments, the logic of the package becomes bankrupt. And this failure has already proved it. Why bankruptcy? We know that the three pieces of the package - the reform of the ESM, EDIS and BICC - travel at different speeds and, in fact, the result of this approach can only be one. If you take it seriously, the process of European reform is completely blocked, waiting for the last piece to arrive. And the last piece will never come, and not because the League is bad and Eurosceptic, but for the nein of our proud German allies. Okay? If you don't take it seriously, you're gonna take some shit. The catch has already been taken, because the terms of the debate, when you were not there but someone in the debate was there, were quite different: having a true EDIS in exchange for joining the ESM. Once you gave in on the ESM, there was a fall back on our country's position. And that is so true that now the debate is between having a weakened insurance mechanism in exchange for weighting for the risk of government bonds, which you say you do not want. Of course, who would say they want something absurd and irrational? No one. On the other hand, you also said - and you had undertaken to refuse - that you did not want, within the ESM, conditionality to limit growth. And I'm here. In this regard, it would perhaps be important to light a light on what is the real state of the negotiations on EDIS, because we vaguely know that there was a high level working group that worked. We do not know who was there for Italy and we do not find in parliamentary acts the moment when on such an important aspect, that you yourself say to be important, this someone has taken, directly or indirectly, a mandate to negotiate. It's not that, even in this case, you sold out - in figure terms of course - something and then you'll come and tell us: "Yes, but seven months ago, seventy-seven months ago, everything was already approved and now nothing can be said"? This method - you have understood this - will no longer be accepted by this Parliament from now on. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] It has also been understood that, in order to promote a real debate in the European fora, subalternity, quietness, good manners and calm tones serve to a certain extent. We also need to go there and say our reasons with energy. We also need to rely on a Parliament that must be involved, because the strength of the national parliaments is the strength of the various negotiators in Europe. But to this end - I regret to remind you - the Italians, as soon as they can - I think very soon - will address Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lorefice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, colleagues, the European Council which opens tomorrow in Brussels will discuss various issues, including the ESM. The Heads of State and Government of the Member States will address important issues for our future, namely the European Union. Europe must decide what to do when it grows up: whether to remain a puppet made of wood, abstract and uncoordinated bureaucratic construction, or to become a child in the flesh, mature and supportive communities of peoples united by centuries of history that have taught us that only union makes strength and that together - I repeat, together - we survive and grow. Divided, however, we all lose. Let's be clear: divided, we all lose. Today, more than ever, Europe must be strong and united, in a historic moment characterised by geopolitical challenges between international actors such as China and the United States. If we are not careful, we will be crushed by these very large groups and, therefore, wake up. Europe must face the challenges in a compact way so that it does not risk becoming a pot of stone between iron vessels. We are referring to the need not to weaken common European investment in areas that are important to us: not only digital, but also space and defence, which are industrial sectors and national excellences that must be defended with sword. From this point of view, it is also necessary to build strategic cooperation between Europe and Africa, which is vital to promote development and stability in the African continent, also in order to counter the root causes of the migratory flows that have so passionately enthusiast colleagues, but which have now evidently abandoned as a topic. The inhuman trafficking in human beings must also be blocked and stopped. The unity of intent must also characterise the planning of the long-term European strategy on climate change, which is very important not to be underestimated. In order to achieve the ambitious goals of the green new deal, which are very close to the 5 Star Movimento, it is necessary not only to overcome the resistance of the countries of Eastern Europe, but also to reaffirm the principle of the separation of green public investment from the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. We have this need; we need more courage and more investment in this very important sector. I'm also taking a brief step on the Brexit issue. We know that tomorrow there will be elections in the United Kingdom. We hope that they will do their best and create the political conditions for an orderly exit from the European Union, protecting the interests of our 700,000 citizens living in the United Kingdom and of our businesses operating and trading beyond hand. We also consider it very important to support the work of the European Commission in the reform of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), in order to ensure the possibility of introducing compensatory mechanisms for protection, also in defence of our beloved Made in Italy. And now we're going to the MES. We have witnessed a surreal debate, triggered by opposition. I cite at random three musketeers: Salvini, Meloni and Bernini, and also someone else, who have triggered this surreal and emblematic case, shifting attention from other themes far more important in my opinion. Today, with this kind of approach, there is a risk of ending in the pure rhetoric of those who shoot the biggest and those who scream louder to sow panic and gather only mere consents, dangerously moving away from the reality of the facts, not only on the merits of the reform of the MES Treaty - many of those who today scream have not even read it, I think - but even in the basic fact that the origin of this European mechanism, which has never liked the Movimento 5 Stars - we repeat - goes back to the fourth Berlusconi Government, with the League to the Government, the Meloni Minister and Bernini to European policies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where were they back then? Were they asleep? Were they distracted by anything else? The story is there, however, firm and immutable. We are also talking about the serious damage caused by this fierce controversy, which was committed to defending the Italian national interest. As the President-in-Office of the Council said, this sends out a message of weakness and it is said that Italy is afraid of the ESM. But if the public accounts and our government are solid, we have little to fear. On the substance of the reform of the Treaty of the European Stability Mechanism, the issue is very simple. The negotiation to improve this common European insurance in the event of a crisis, within the framework of a reform package that strengthens the entire architecture of the European Economic Union, will not end tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We have time; we have at least a few more months to look into this issue in order to clarify and improve the technical aspects that we do not like and above all for a new and necessary passage in Parliament in the coming months, before the next Eurogroup. No signature in the dark, no green light without absolute clarity and guarantee of protection of the interests of our beloved Italy, of our country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we thank you for your commitment and we are sure that you will deliver our message clearly, without creating any misunderstanding. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in my view it is the Treaty that is wrong, not the corrections that are being made now. [[Applause from Senator Martelli]] The European Stability Mechanism was approved in 2012, based in Luxembourg (known as the State in which tax evasion is fought). But there is already the ECB that does this kind of operation. And, above all, it is clear that there is a serious loss of sovereignty. It is hoped for by those who are more progressive, the newspapers that go for the greater, really the strong powers. Losing sovereignty means that France will bomb whoever you want; it means that Germany will save its banks and we will not, we will stand by and watch. It is already decided, as we are told? Do the Italians want it? I did not feel, among the people, that people are so passionate about the ESM. Parliament takes note. If he votes no, what happens? Is it possible or is it a fake and we're playing? Europe already costs too much for my tastes: 16 billion cash every year, of which 11 go back, while the other 5 go to equalize the East, which thus competes with us especially in the field of agriculture, and to maintain the expensive structure. Then there are the European funds: those who embark on these adventures three, four or five years with co-financing. If you can say something, perhaps on another occasion, since this is not the issue, it would be advisable to ask that no more co-financing is necessary. Europe is telling us these days that we do not charge taxes on ports, so there is a risk that an infringement procedure will be initiated against Italy and, while Germany fixes its banks - after it will fix the others, the big ones - by us Tercas has failed. Minister Gualtieri, in audition in the Senate - in my opinion and I say it with respect - had a slightly above-the-line attitude; and I say slightly because I want to be correct. He said that Cannata and Visco did not understand, as well as Cottarelli, making another name that at this moment escapes me. In the days of the ESM the ESC (summaries of the European Sexual Convention) also appeared, which is the continuation of what, when I spoke for confidence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I spoke for Revelation: I no longer speak of Revelation - it will come - but of the last days of Byzantium. In the ESM we have 17%: sooner or later we should give 125 billion, to tranches: where will we get them? If we can't print, who are we gonna take them off? We'll end up taking them away from the rich notoriously. To access you must respect the fiscal compact, another agreement that you approved without understanding or in bad faith, knowing that it would not be fulfilled. As is clear from Articles 12 et seq. and Annex III, translated into Italian, we do not have the aid: the debt will be automatically restructured. The aid does not really belong to France and Germany, which do not fall within the parameters. The Ministers decide, but in fact there are governors led by a Director-General, who is above the law and with whom, before speaking, anyone will have to apply and make a lot of waiting, discreetly, if a State is able to repay the intervention. However, if you were able to repay tout court, it would be worth asking for a loan in case of emergency, there would be no need for help. How did I try to say in the Commission - I know that these are things that leave the time they find - why do we Italians, in our dignity as a nation and a homeland, not reconstruct our own debt with the Saving Fund Italy? In the drawers of the Presidency of the Council there is a proposal by Panerai, Savona and others: I do not know, Mr President-in-Office, if you want to delegate someone. In the proposal it says that, with the Fondo salva Italia, through the disposal of real estate, you can do interesting things. Then there is the question of the spread, which will dance for a few days - it is normal - if we say no. I remember, however, that when you wanted to do certain operations, the spread danced badly in 2011, reaching over 500 points and is not imported to anyone. I think that this decision should be postponed sine die: we do not need it. I'm gonna skip the bank chapter. We already have the Interbank Fund; they let us use it. They say it's private, but we do. I close by reading a statement made to a journalist by a French economist, Shahin Vallée, a close collaborator of Macron: The reform of the ESM Treaty, in its present form, does not apply to the paper on which it is written. The Eurogroup should postpone the agreement and define with the new European Commission a broader, more balanced and more ambitious text. He concludes Vallé: "There is something cowardly about publicly supporting an agreement, secretly hoping that the Italians will block it." He closes the journalist: "Chapeau!," as they say in France. So in the face of these situations and the fact that economists and people of different tendencies who have not brought the brain to the cluster have awakened, it is clear that this is not a question of League or not League, because this is an easy attack. Of course, the League has married the cause, as well as Forza Italia and all the center-right, but we ask you to think about it again: ask for a postponement and ask for a modification of the modification, so that there is no loop around the neck for Italy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u99	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u100	Mr President, I must admit that I dream of the moment when all the great passion that has been placed in the debate - just, for goodness sake, and then I will go into the matter - on the reform of the ESM can be applied - and I hope that the moment of great debate in the country arrives - on the issues that are also at the heart of the European Council. We will not, in fact, clearly discuss only the reform of the ESM and other closely related issues, but we know perfectly well - as we will also report in our resolution - that these will be strategically vital issues for Europe, which will have to begin to develop a long-term strategy to deal with climate change. I hope, therefore, that we can finally start a debate on this with the same relevance and I hope with the same passion that I have seen here and also outside, in the country. I also hope that the words spoken in Madrid by President von der Leyen, reaffirming the objective of making Europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, will have direct consequences. This means taking on specific responsibilities in Europe, which are obviously not just of a programmatic nature. It means having direct consequences - for example - on the other crucial issue for us. You, Mr President, have rightly said that the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 must be drawn up with competence, with a capacity to challenge for the future as well. This does not just mean allocating resources. It also means making choices in Europe and consequently in our country. We must never lose sight of this absolute priority. We must remember this absolutely, because it is the very survival of life on the Planet. And this aspect has impacts, from the social and economic point of view, that we are already beginning to touch with hand, but obviously we continue not to have a concentration and to consider all this as a secondary fact. The European Parliament stated the climate emergency a few days ago; I hope that Italy will do the same quickly. We must also be able to do much more, and instead there are resistances, we know perfectly well. Just think of the discussion on environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD), with an impact every time problematic. Now, government and majority, since next January, they have to set a strict agenda for the green new deal, because this - I keep saying - is the real common cement of the current majority, the real reason for being. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] At the same time, the government must insist with the European Union that green investment for energy conversion, for the transition - otherwise the transition cannot be made - be exempted from the rules of the Stability Pact and from the calculation of the deficit ratio - GDP: this should be our first concern because it helps the country, it is good for the economy. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] On the contrary, everyone is focused on the reform of the ESM. Many have said that it was a surreal debate; for Christ's sake. You made your propaganda and terrorist campaign to spread fear, not doing our country good. But we have shown that we are able not to hide the real problems, and we are not hiding them. We wanted to tackle them, and President Conte - for example - has done well to reiterate that there is no automatism between any request for loan and debt restructuring: let us not run this risk. What is important is the centrality of Parliament; it is fundamental to us. That is the guarantee: Parliament should be informed about the crucial steps and also about the contextuality of the logic of the package. This has not happened, for example, with Minister Centinario; I remember asking 50 times for explanations on the global economic and trade agreement (CETA). Wasn't Parliament central in that case? Perhaps for the interests of the country it would have been necessary to discuss it thoroughly. I repeat this concept. In conclusion, Mr President, there are many points that are precise and I would like to point out that the effect of the debate on the centrality of Parliament has already been highlighted in the work of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. We will continue to carry it forward in our fundamental conviction of the centrality of Parliament, which has already proved to be central by giving some indications that have been taken into account; the contextuality will not be immediate because the negotiations have different times, but we certainly know that this is the indication that the President of the Council has once again reiterated in his communications. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u101	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, the fibrillations and controversy against the Government in recent weeks about the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), on the agenda of the European Council in the coming days, are not good for Italy. They weaken us, make us lose our credibility, and they don't change the substance by a millimetre. In fact, the ESM, as has already been said in several previous interventions, is a sort of preventive insurance to the benefit of countries most at risk of crisis as a result of high public debt. If it is true, as the President-in-Office of the Council said in his speech, that our public debt is sustainable, then we will not need the ESM; While it is true that Italy is the third largest contributor to ESM capital after Greece for debt-to-GDP ratio, it is also true that we are the third country with the highest debt-to-GDP ratio in Europe. The ESM is therefore something that is useful to the country, because it is a sort of lender, in the last instance, to be able to resort to in extreme cases. Unfortunately we had phases in which our spread was skyrocketing, so let's think about a country where the spread is around 600 points. In this case, instead of resorting to the free market and thus paying disproportionate interest on loans to cope with its difficulties, using the ESM would make it possible to benefit from more preferential rates. Therefore, we can say that it is a common defence mechanism against the potential failure of a state. Those who dispute that the ESM is used to pay for the crises of German or French banks say the false; the ESM helps to protect taxpayers because it preserves financial stability, ensuring that even in the event of a crisis, accountants, on the one hand, and investors, on the other, do not lose huge amounts. This seeks to ensure the least possible impact on the banking system. In essence, the ESM protects the savings of Italians and also of other countries; it is no coincidence that the ESM, together with specific policies of the European Central Bank, has been used in the stages of worst crises alongside countries in difficulty, such as Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Greece, guaranteeing the holding of the single currency. So we should be interested in the construction of a stable and resilient monetary area where the ESM is not in favour of bankers, as has been said controversially in recent weeks, but it is in favour of citizens. Of course, those who have fired zero and continue to do so in recent weeks are not interested in the merits of the issues. A whole series of false news, real fake news, have been put out. For example, there is an automatism between obtaining credit and a mechanism for restructuring sovereign debts, as well as the possibility of prior verification of debt sustainability, which is already present in the current Treaty. Who yells at the plot is often exactly the one or those who, in turn, have contributed to the drafting of these negotiations, only that today, being no longer involved, they try to send everything upstream. Therefore, there are two issues: perhaps we still do not understand what we are talking about - in fact there are interviews, also to President Salvini, who attest precisely this since, on the explicit question of what certain terms relating to the ESM mean, it has been clearly seen that he has not been able to provide answers - or, the other hypothesis, is that we are playing at the massacre hoping for an exit of Italy from the euro. In fact, even this could be a way of debt restructuring, only that it would surely have catastrophic effects and costs for both the country's finances and savers. Mr President, it is not clear which of the two suppositions is the most accredited, but the absurdity of political forces remains, which, having contributed in turn to reaching a compromise which is also valid with regard to the modification of the reform of the ESM, now they want to blow up everything. President, I believe that we must take note of what has been done by your Government, even at the last Ecofin summit a few days ago, in which Italy has taken a clear line that aims to avoid, for example, this automatism to which I referred earlier and to counter the proposal of the German Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, which assumed, for example, that the government bonds included in the banks' bellies could be considered as a risk factor and, therefore, wanted to limit their purchase. These aspects would be at the disadvantage of the Italian banking system. Government, colleagues, I believe that, rather than continuing to challenge the reform of this mechanism, which is in favour not only of the country but also of individual taxpayers and savers, there should be a convergent position to give the Government and the President of the Council the opportunity to bring a strong and compact voice of our country, in the European Council, to say that the reform of the ESM is not enough. On the other hand, we need the completion of Economic and Monetary Union and, therefore, we need more dowels, other instruments, starting from the European deposit insurance scheme (EDIS), a common deposit insurance, which will protect individual savers regardless of where their bank is located or the establishment of a secure European bond, as the Eurobonds could be, to help us reduce the public debt of our country, as well as a multi-annual budget and financial framework with more resources that help us, on the one hand, to give stability and, on the other hand, to promote growth. These are Italy's priorities. President, these are the priorities that we give you on the basis of a premise: we are faced with a situation in some ways positive compared to the past because those populist forces that in recent weeks have so strongly expressed themselves against the Government today are, however, outside the Government. This means that Italy has been enjoying Europe's trust for a few weeks now. Mr President, let us build on this renewed confidence in the country and let the voice of Italy be heard, taking forward the demands that we have included in the majority resolution and that I have only tried in part to synthesize in my speech and do not let it be weakened by the voices and populist forces that are not only against the Government, but are primarily against Europe. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u103	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, you are returning to the Chamber today, after the urgent disclosure of 2 December, when you were asked to report on the reform of the ESM, because there were problems of merit and method, including an Italian endorsement given that Parliament was not informed of it or expressed - as planned - an act of its address; in those days - you will remember - contradictory statements and denials were also made by the authoritative of your majority, known history. Today you, Mr President, come back to the House with a view to the appointment of 12 and 13 December, but in your speech we have not heard the answers to the precise questions that we are going to put on the bottom save States. We continue to believe that, as it appears, the ESM has negative consequences and its assurances - I am sorry, Mr President - are vague and therefore alarming. It is the usual storytelling, his, so everything is always fine in the country, in the majority and in the maneuver. In fact, we expect negative consequences not only for Italy and individual member countries, but also for the whole eurozone, at least according to what 32 economists from 13 Italian universities have said, who have signed a document in which they reject the reform of the ESM asking not to subscribe to it. And it is not - I mean - a matter of frightening sovereignist trinarichiuti: some of them are university professors also left-wing and have chosen "MicroMega" to launch their alarm cry. Before we go into the subject, I would like to remind you that the Fund saves States does not convince us, I would say almost ontologically - I stress - because eight countries out of 19, or the total of those included by the ESM, would help to repulse the funds without taking any advantage of it; not to mention the mechanism eats money that the ESM represents and that only the technocrats of Brussels like, but not the peoples of Europe. I would also remind you that the members of the ESM receive gold salaries: it is managed by a Board of Governors consisting of 19 euro area financial ministers and a Board of Directors appointed by the Board of Governors itself, by a Director-General, as well as by the EU Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs and by the President of the ECB as observers. Gold salaries, we said, but also immunity, that is, two things always hateful anyway. Article 35 of the ESM provides for criminal, civil and administrative immunity for all members of the body, whereas Article 32 grants the same immunity even to assets and property. Italy has never borrowed a single euro since the ESM; on the other hand, it has already paid well €14.3 billion and signed a financing of approximately €125 billion. Italy, in fact, is the third contributor after Germany and France, but it would not benefit, because it has too high a public debt. So, in addition to the risk of debt restructuring, and therefore to the damage, we must add the Brussels mockery of contributing to a fund that we will never be able to use, because the conditions for accessing it are three and automatically exclude us: not being in infringement proceedings; having a deficit of less than 3% for at least two years; finally, having a debt-to-GDP ratio of below 60%. It goes without saying, then, that we will not be able to benefit from it: so, in short, we are saying that with our money we save the German and French banks, whose derivatives are the most exposed. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] And while we save them, let us not forget, even if it has been minimized, that in the background there is the Brexit that acts as a detonator, with its effect of turbulence on the markets. It is evident - and for us as Brothers of Italy it is very clear - that the ESM has represented and represents not only a trap, but also a great friction within your majority. As it is also true that, instead of consistently exploding the contradictions that stir you up, you find a downward agreement to save what is called, in an elegant way, the status quo. So, in the face of the election programs against the ESM! In the face of recent statements for which he does not sign in the dark (instead, in the light of darkness, apparently, yes)! We resort to the escamotage of the logic of the package, which recalls, then, a bit that of the three cards. Save yourselves at the expense of the national interest, which is, instead, central to us. In fact, President Conte, a State that accedes to the Treaty accepts debt restructuring and thus exposes our government bonds, on which, among other things, it is easy to predict that a speculative spiral can also be triggered. In addition to the risk posed by the debt crisis, there is also the risk, always minimized, of going into default. The point on which I would like to draw attention is not only the possibility of a sovereign debt being restructured, but the spoiled principle of restructuring becoming an almost automatic precondition for obtaining funding. Basically, it's the trap I was talking about earlier. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled, with the centre-right forces, a comprehensive and important joint resolution, which commits the Government to many strategic points and strongly calls for the Chambers to be informed of the progress of the negotiations. In fact, we are reduced to claiming the prerogatives of Parliament, because you too often forget to inform us. But let's move on. In our resolution we ask not to proceed to any formal accession before the many critical issues that we are exposing in these days are really discussed and resolved; indeed, and I stress this, subjecting the eventual accession of our country to the necessary modifications that eliminate this criticality. We also call for the removal of the absolute immunity granted to the ESM and its executives: immunity! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The MES, dear President Conte, as President Meloni also said this morning, is for us a bank at the expense of the Italians. It threatens our stability and our savings. Italy, therefore, has no reason to agree to the Treaty, which, let us say, is a tribute to the European and Franco-German consorteries, exactly those consorts that, from the first day, have blessed this Government, have given you indication and, I believe, also orders. Let us leave your consorts to you; to us, we are interested in sovereign Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u106	Mr President, with my speech I would like to restrict the role and the protagonism of fear in relation to this complex subject. The complexity does not mean, however, that we must give up on the subject, on the substance and also on the search for what can convince us all. I am convinced that institutions can progress if they work and produce collective convenience. We are faced with an institutional framework for the European Union that needs to evolve further. Evolving, it also needs to know how to find a solution to the moments of crisis and also to the moments of break that can be presented. In fact, the complexity of the economy, international relations, the complex story of globalization have made us know tension, criticality and even rupture. Compared to this, a system of density of Europe's must include instruments, procedures, modalities, approaches and contractual rules capable of predicting or containing and, in any case, reacting to the crisis and break-up. What are the new facts included in the instrument of innovation and renewal, where we would like to accept this wording? With regard to the mechanism saves States, the European Stability Mechanism, we determine, through our entry into the substance and overcoming fear, the provision of two modes of intervention: a simplified mode and a strengthened mode. We have two levels of collegial bodies, both shared by responsibility for legitimacy, one democratic and another responsible for technical legitimacy, and then there is the Director-General. I am not surprised that at some point an institution is responsible for providing for simplification mechanisms, but, with respect to the ESM, the completion is sought through the other two elements that constitute the fulfilment of the three pillars. There is the pillar of EDIS (European deposit insurance scheme) as regards deposit guarantee, and there is the BICC (Budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness), i.e. a budgetary instrument that must ensure convergence and competitiveness. There are some people who have studied and have experience in European affairs. I cannot fail to point out that the thematic couple of competitiveness and convergence, or of initiative and cohesion, was the thematic couple who at the beginning animated the best part of Europe's life, starting with Delors. We must ensure that the BICC instrument can contain in itself everything needed for the Italian agenda, triggering a respectful and intelligent tug of rope, as I am convinced that the Minister for European Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and our President-in-Office of the Council are doing, but going there, arguing and having elements, without blowing up the bench, without calling themselves out, without betting on fear, because the complexity of the issue calls us to enter into the substance. I want to highlight the following question: would it be conceivable that at the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we could go, that we would approach that European concert without having made an agenda and without further strengthening the agenda? When you say package logic, or participation with the package, it means being up to the negotiating dashboard. We must ensure that the European Year of the Future, which will begin in 2020, is a season that sees us as protagonists, for example for all investments in overcoming the fragility of soil or buildings. Investments designed to answer collective questions, think of school, transport, with equal opportunities between North and South. All this must be sheltered, outside the calculation of the Stability Pact. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] But to do this means to enter into the matter, it also means to shelter the issues of order from the political battle, because what we have seen in recent weeks is a political battle. We should distinguish precisely what is in the political battle, what is in the States and what is in the European Union's order. It is not possible to devour everything, otherwise we will have the rags. The alternative, which occurs in democracy between majority and opposition, will give to others, to those who may be minority today, the role of responsibility: why do some countries in the world become recognized by maturity with respect to these issues? Because they know the difference between what is of the order and which must last and what is of the political battle. What has been consumed here, in the House and at some moments in the Commissions, is not typical of a national ruling class able to demand a pact of trust on the one hand to the citizens and on the other side to the international level of the Unionist effort. We must ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that on the subject of Europe there is more Europe, more mechanism of operation, more guarantee. Think about the topic, for example, about the couple we find inside EDIS. We value the deposit guarantee instruments but, on the other hand, we also consider that the single resolution fund is increasingly large, precisely to meet the crisis needs. But if this is not the order, then it is necessary: to predict, prefigure and make sure that in advance you are not caught by surprise. That is why I appreciated the work that the majority parliamentary groups have done and I also appreciate the efforts of the President of the Council, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for European Affairs. Good work to those who carry out this shooting for the reasons of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u107	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u109	President Conte, I will not go back - as my previous colleagues have done - on the substance and specific content of the ESM. Already before, Senator Bagnai was punctual and precise, but he had already been punctual towards his minister Gualtieri, who, moreover, I do not see among the benches of the Government, in a circumstance in which we would have wanted him instead present, if only to give a concrete and figurative physiognomy of how she makes a smile and he never smiles, when we talk about the same topic: the MES. When Gualtieri comes to the Commission he says things exactly opposite to what you then say in the press releases. It would have been nice to see you there, next to each other, arguing with your face those expressions that then actually contain the truth about this MES. We'll have to settle for your presence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You see, President Conte, this is also the circumstance that makes it plastic and visible, in the Senate Chamber, but it was also in the House this morning, the way in which you manage public affairs, that is, your office as President of the Council of Ministers. It is evident the parable that led him to be substantially a ruler of himself, emancipating himself totally with respect to the Movimento 5 stars, until he even came to question and embarrass the same original thesis that the Movimento 5 Star brought before the voters in 2018. There is no great difficulty in reading what the Movimento 5 Stars wrote in the program with which it presented itself to voters in 2018: The 5 Star Movement will oppose in every way the blackmails of the markets and of the international finance disguised from reforms, that involve the sale of the assets Country and the putting in crisis of the policies of Welfare. In particular, it will commit itself to the liquidation of the ESM (Save States Fund), thereby freeing States from the need to adapt to the strict conditionality imposed by decisions taken in breach of the democratic principles of supranational bodies forming the so-called Troika. Beyond the decidedly baroque form, the reasoning was "we" of the Movimento 5 Stars we are opposed to it. It is very curious now to hear the voices of embarrassment in that Group. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] However, they are not due to an unshared position in relation to the mandate received by the voters, but to the embarrassment of being with the President of the Council today, whom they support with their vote of confidence, which is the exact opposite when he goes to Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Taverna]] This is the form of betrayal of the mandate received. And it is equally clear that this betrayal for her is an easy thing, or at least that not keeping busy and hiding cards for her is an easy thing. Well, President Conte, we'd like to know if colleagues 5 Stars have had the chance to see the papers related to Professor Alpa's affair; did you have the opportunity to check those papers with them, since every day we are on television telling this story? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If they have been lucky enough to be sure, they can go quietly ('state serene') to give the vote of confidence to your Government and to you, otherwise, if they have not done this verification of certainty, they can once again be aware of giving confidence to a person who has demonstrated, perhaps in the small (but the little then is the demonstration of the great), what is your vision of how you behave when dealing with a public responsibility: they keep the cards hidden. That's his way of doing it. This is the transparency that today distinguishes the people's lawyer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're proving it all the time. By the way, the question of the ESM is not linked to the form; I am also pleased to have heard before some heated intervention that comes to tell us that it will practically be the panacea of all the evils of our country. We were proudly opposed from the outset, in 2012, at the ESM. We have been opposed to fiscal compact and still today we declare our total opposition to these instruments [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which have become a means of control and coercion of the peoples of Europe, by financial management, led by his friend Merkel. I am referring to Frau Merkel, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with whom you had a cup of beer, if you do not remember. With regard to this type of yoke, we are here to make the interest of the Italians, while you are here to make the interest of foreigners, who, with respect to the interest of our country, condition the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] What they ask you to do is an act of faith. Today, however, we want to see the ESM once again and tell the Government to bring that document here to the House and to prevent officials or third parties from putting a signature on that document, before Parliament has said its word, because that is what happened after the resolution of 19 June. Mr President, today we demand, once again, that democracy be respected. Colleagues, you betray the mandate: you betrayed him on June 19 and do not hesitate to do so also in this circumstance. Do you want to vote on the MES? Vote for it. Do you want to support a President of the Council of Ministers, who, in a opaque way, addresses the European Commission, saying that Italy's interest is that which corresponds to Germany's interest? Do it: you will be responsible for it. We denounce this lie in front of all Italians. People are right not to trust, because, Mr President, we must also remember that this is a matter of trust and credibility. Trust and credibility are not bought in the market, either by weight or by slices or are not easily replaceable spare parts. The Premier or the Government may have the confidence from the vote of the Parliament, but it is a totally ephemeral result, if it does not correspond to a true trust and credibility that the Premier and the Government must have in the real country [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And this is all you've played out for, but it's all, with this MES thing. Without trust and credibility there is no investment and there is no willingness on the part of people to look to the future. Investors, whether they're Italian or foreign, don't trust each other. They don't trust each other, because a President-in-Office of the Council, who is opaque in the management of his own... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I would at least ask the President of the Council to have a minimum of attention, given that the reporters are already silent when they ask him questions and do not answer about Professor Alpa' s business. Let us, at least here in Parliament, bear the responsibility for our mandate! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Live comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u110	Please! Conclude, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u111	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I understand the uneasiness of some majority senator when he is called today to trust this type of government. MIRABELLI (PD). After hearing you, we're more convinced! CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You bowed to the Democratic Party and did so by betraying your own voters and the mandate you received. SANTANGELO (M5S). Think of Berlusconi! CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Be proud and happy, because you can stay in this building and you can stay in the Ministries, through palace games, but you are not up to Renzi or Franceschini, because you are just the bad copy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u112	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u113	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the European Council of 12 and 13 December is a crucial moment for rewriting the rules of the European Union, for intervening to update them, to change them from the time and to correct what, based on experience from the 1990s and the Maastricht Treaty onwards, we have had the opportunity to try and have the need to change. Because, with the other countries of the European Union, we have many common rules that have been adopted over the last 20 years and so Europe is not just a geographical expression. Mr President, the debate these days unfortunately highlights how, perhaps overly attracted by internal problems, for which the European Union is partly responsible, attention to change has been scarce, as was the unfortunate role that our country played in the Juncker Commission. Here the errors of designation - I refer to a surname: Mogherini - have their consequence, because we were far from the European Commission. Now, however, at the European Council on 12 and 13 December, we will be dealing with key issues for our future: the multiannual financial framework, abroad, Africa and also, aggregated, the major theme of the European Stability Mechanism and the European Banking Union, which cannot be kept separate in the assessment that we have to make. These are crucial issues for the future choice of the peoples of the European Union. First of all, there is the issue of climate, with a path that has already begun, which some of my colleagues have mentioned, including Senator Testor, in order to define a correct path towards the objective of clean energy, of the climate transition, which must also be sustainable and non-intentional, as well as of the reduction of pollution, which is an operation that is certainly not done with the so-called plastic tax. Then there is the issue of foreign affairs, with the problem of Brexit, which is topical in the coming days, with an issue that will concern obligations and rights, as well as the EU budget and the financial framework (the issue of obligations and rights because integration has been there anyway). There are also the issues of Russia and sanctions, as well as China and its expansion. I would like to remind you that, when we talk about foreign countries, Italy is, after Germany, the first trading partner compared to Russia. Then there is the theme of Africa, which you mentioned in a passage from your speech. The question of the century will be Africa, because it invests immigration (which we are the first to face with its consequences), the problem of trade and consumption and the budget of the European Union (so that multiannual framework that you will have to deal with as regards aid). When we talk about Africa, we also return to China's expansion and to the future balance that will be created in the Mediterranean. It is also understood - allow me - the theme of the last days, namely Turkey, for its economic role in NATO, as well as for the military role it is taking in the chessboard of the Mediterranean also with the agreement with the Government of Tripoli. Italy cannot be careless, absent or distant from these issues. Then there is the theme of the rules and, therefore, the multiannual finance framework. Many speakers have already addressed this issue. Then there are the issues of the financial adjustment of our agricultural policies, cohesion policy and the overall reduction, following the UK's exit, of resources (€10-12 billion less), as well as the digital agenda and research. Finally, Mr President, let me remind you that those who speak to you at the end of the 1990s managed Résider. For many it will be a simple signature, but it was the programme, the axis of the European Union for the closure of steel plants; wanted by the European Union, imposed by rules of the first Treaty of the European Union (started from Maastricht). So I'm gonna ask, what now? Today that Ilva closes blast furnace 2, which generates an additional 2,300 redundancies, where is the European Union? Let us ask ourselves the question of whether the Government of the Republic should put it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And on this we insert the European Stability Mechanism, which should, in accordance with the principles of its creation, provide assistance. It is therefore appropriate that our Government, which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, opposes regulatory arrangements which could automatically force restructuring by means of parameters which do not take account of the reality of the country. Let us remember the parameter of public debt, which does not take into account private debt and bank debt, because the first rule was dictated by those who had a high private debt and a low public debt. But cohesion is also created on the rules. And if the rules are not in the interest of a country that represents 20% of the European Union as a population, they do not work. The re-reading of the ESM, also in the light of the EU's long-term budget, must therefore be included in a wider package of governance reforms. In a governance where there is no control there is no transparency and it is not democratic. The European Commission is called upon to give a technical opinion. There will be the right of veto over the choices, not extraordinary, of Germany and France. Italy cannot afford to give the right of veto to two countries. Italy is a founding country of the European Union, so it must absolutely count on the European Union for the rights it has, and we cannot accept this kind of rules. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That is why we urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to assert the right not of the Italian Government but of the Italians. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u114	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u115	Mr President, in recent days there has been a great deal of talk about the European Stability Mechanism, making it an area of conflict with the Government, with the majority, with the oppositions. It has been discussed in all the institutions and not on television, in the square, everywhere, often extrapolating only a fragment of a more complex package, for the sole purpose of attracting consensus for its own benefit. As we have already been able to explain - last but not least, you, Mr Conte, did this today - the basic principle of the agreement is based on a package logic: the revision of the Treaty on the ESM; the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness; finally, the completion of the banking union. In the resolution that we are going to vote on today, we reiterate our desire to give the green light to the various reforms, provided that in comparison with the European partners, the nodes on the whole package are dissolved, ensuring the overall balance of the various elements dealt with. I believe that this is a great opportunity, indeed the great opportunity of the century, to talk about the mechanisms of political representation in the European Union, to say what we like and how we would like it to be Europe, which, whether willing or not, is our home. If the foundations are not solid, if they are not shored when necessary, everything risks crumbling and burying us under a mountain of dust. We are the government of the country; it is not time to break down, but to build. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Build together a broad vision that does not look at polls or the next electoral event, but looks to the good of Italy. And with the Italians we must be clear: we must tell the country that we want the European Union and therefore what country we want, because the two things are interdependent from each other. What is happening in Europe affects the lives of its individual Member States and its citizens. The European social model, as described in the preamble to the Treaty on European Union, is threatened by ill-designed austerity policies, justified by public opinion as the price to be paid for a stable and growing economy. The European Stability Mechanism was founded in 2011, in the midst of an economic crisis, and is built on fear of the eurozone's financial failure. Usually, when you act in fear, you make mistakes. Well, we believe that these mistakes can be corrected, also because austerity measures, if not properly managed, damage European social achievements, creating divisions and conflicts between countries. In this regard, I would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues a passage from the European Parliament's resolution of 14 March 2019 on the proposal for a Council regulation on the establishment of the European Monetary Fund. In point 13, we read that any future adjustment programmes should take into account the social impact of the proposed measures, inter alia, in relation to the long-term impact of maintaining existing policies, in the light of the outcome of a careful assessment of the social impact. So the other countries also point their finger at austerity policies, which help to keep the accounts of the nations in order, but at what price? What is the social cost that citizens have to bear? The risk is that the many cuts in public spending imposed by austerity policies will no longer be able to offer social protection to citizens, especially the most vulnerable. Let us take the example of Greece: President Tsipras had to adopt austerity measures of EUR 65 billion in cuts in public expenditure and, despite the increase in employment rates, there has been a dramatic fall in wages. The photograph of the country today is still that of a tired and ungratified people. The ESM was created to ensure the financial stability of the eurozone, providing support to Member States in difficulty, but financial stability does not automatically guarantee the well-being of citizens; on the contrary, it is the well-being of peoples that guarantees the stability of countries. President Conte, you have always called yourself the people's attorney. I am proud and proud of this, and I am sure that you will be the spokesperson for our demands, so that the dream of an increasingly fair and inclusive European Union can come true. No one has to stay behind. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Messina Assuntela]] And no one will be left behind, if Europe acts with judgment, driven by the need to strengthen the relations of solidarity between States. Good job. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u116	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I have received motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 3, No 3, No 3, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 1, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, No 2, I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u117	Mr President, on motion for a resolution No 1, I support the first motion for a resolution (the Senate approves the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers) and the second amendment to favour the vote on the other motions for resolutions, starting with motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Mr Perilli, Mr Marcucci, Mr Faraone and Mr De Petris, on which the Government gives a favourable opinion. On the motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani, the opinion is against, as is the motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Candiani and other Senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u121	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I will be brief, because many things have already been said. We are making statements about the European Council, in which we will not only talk about one subject, as would appear from the speech of some of our colleagues, but also about a plurality of issues which the President-in-Office of the Council has dealt with thoroughly in his report. On behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, I therefore declare, from now on, that we will strongly support the Government's line, assuming that Italy has again taken a clear and clear position in the context of the European Nations. This does not mean that our country is flattened on elements that we too see with great concern to mature within the European Union, but the policy of the empty chair serves nothing: the chair must be filled, we must stay there, debate, debate and, when necessary, take the hat, but always doing so constructively, because being in a position to get out of the dynamic that is developing at this moment at European level is alone and simply self-injury. Let us start with the issue of so-called climate neutrality. I think the government's line on energy transition is right. I would like to make just one point, which is already contained in the report made by President Conte: it is right that the European green deal should not be a dream book, but should be confronted with the practicality of questions relating to the employment and productive system. If it is a book of dreams, it will be yet another printed manifesto that will do nothing; if instead it compares with the themes of productive economy and employment, then it will be a great opportunity to relaunch our continent. A second point concerns the multiannual financial framework: the Finnish Presidency, with all due respect for Finland, which we all love, has not produced satisfactory results. I agree with the Government that the budget proposal from our Finnish colleagues marks cuts in overall spending that affect issues such as innovation, digital, as well as space and three other areas that we should all shudder about, namely security, defence and immigration. Therefore, when the government says that it is going to renegotiate a different project, because from the Finnish one it is necessary to move quickly, it makes an absolutely fair statement, just as it is right to make our contribution to the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism. Colleagues, the debate has been approximate, confused and instrumental, all adjectives that we could sum up by saying that it has been dangerous for national interests, especially for us who, with this debate, produce nothing but a sure effect, that is to assert doubts that must not exist on the full sustainability of the Italian public debt. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, this debate must be stopped as soon as possible, and not because we want to avoid it. I address my colleagues in the League, who always listen very carefully because of course everyone here brings their own piece of truth. The other day, for example, President Salvini quoted the president of ABI Patuelli. In my opinion, it was right to quote it because when Patuelli talks about a negative weighting of risks of government bonds through the revision of their multi-annual treatment he says something right. Patuelli's concern is also ours, and these are exactly the battles that we must carry out in the context of the negotiation of the banking union, as my colleague, Senator Bonino, said last sitting. Therefore, we cannot improperly talk about MES when the issues are actually in another basket, in another container; on this it is clear that the government is required to watch, but it is watching, it is changing, it is sitting at the table doing its own negotiating battle. Colleagues, a subject that is not on the agenda of today's sitting - because I think there is a certain distraction on this - is the geopolitical issue, on which I would like to dwell. First of all, we must support the Commission in order to restore a positive trade agenda. It is time for customs duties, is it time to restore customs? No. This is the exact opposite, because the fact that states return to a protective trade policy like that of the past is negative, and it is not only negative for Italy, but for the whole of Europe. This should motivate us to do what? To be truly more pro-European because sovereignism is needed, but we need a European sovereignism, not a national one. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Ferrari]] In a context in which we are of enormous difficulty - the trade confrontation with China, certainly Russia's very assertive policy - there is a need for a united Europe because all states are irrelevant if they proceed in scattered order. Colleagues, let me look at what is happening in the Mediterranean, let me do this. We have all dealt with it, each with its own degree of responsibility: let us think of the policy of Russia today in the Mediterranean or of Turkey's policy in the Mediterranean, of what Turkey is carrying out in the territorial waters of Cyprus; let us think of the agreement made with the Government legitimized by the United Nations of Tripoli: what does all this do? It transforms Libya into a kind of proxy warground between great powers and expropriates Europe. I would therefore also like to make an appeal from this Parliament to my French colleagues, to my parliamentary colleagues and to the French Government, which has not helped the stabilisation of Libya in recent years. Those who have had government responsibilities know well that we have moved in a logic that has been opposed by a French policy that today, at the end of this dramatic film, can only record the inconsistency of its policy, which is why the whole of Europe is in difficulty: we are in difficulties, the French are in difficulty. Why are we in such difficulties? Because we have proceeded in a scattered order, because we have not achieved - let me say the joke - European sovereignism, which is the only thing that can defend us. We risk no longer being masters in our home, not for the reasons that some people say; precisely for the opposite reasons: because we are not sufficiently pro-European and are not sufficiently able to make and negotiate a single European policy. Mr President, these are the indications and I also believe the advice that we give to the Government as a parliamentary group. We hope that a new awareness will emerge from the European Council, namely that Europe needs greater cohesion, more unity, not only an economic and financial policy, but also a defence and security policy and a foreign policy that is truly cohesive. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u124	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the resolution which has also seen our contribution because it is very clear and effective and states very clearly what are the lines not only of the majority, on which the government has the mandate and the full confidence to move in Europe. It is a resolution of a very balanced nature because - I say clearly - it does not seek the conflict so much for the conflict, as those who in these days and weeks have done terrorist propaganda on the ESM, and does not commit themselves to a closed box. It is a positive interlocutory document that demonstrates Italy's absolute loyalty to the European Union, but at the same time clearly identifies the critical issues and sets out precise goals. In particular, as regards the holding of government bonds by banks and financial institutions, the no to the weighting of government bonds on the basis of risk. The document therefore outlines a clear line and a strong indication of Parliament's position as regards the solution of those critical issues. It is the right way to deal with the European Union of which we are a member. Just as the points, which I would like to mention here, concerning our position for the multi-annual financial framework 2022-2027 are equally clear and determined, which has been a bit of a back seat in this debate, but which is absolutely central to us. We must move forward with the position we have supported to date and be very clear about what must be the priorities of the European strategic agenda. The budget must live up to these priorities. It is the right way - I repeat - to deal with the European Union with clarity and firmness, without seeking unnecessary oppositions, but with the decisive point of view of a founding country as we are. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u127	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is doubtful whether the MES affair has led to such an important debate. I would stress this because President Conte and the relevant ministers will, beginning with Mr Gualtieri, be discussing the opening of the new Commission in a few hours' time. The new Commission, Mr President, means, in my opinion, a different approach to Europe that we have experienced over the past few years. It is therefore paradoxical that an important issue such as that of the Fund saves States has entirely hegemonized a knot of the important foreign policy of this country which has emphasized, among the very few heard in the afternoon, Mr Casini just now. Behind the ESM story I read a different, if not alternative, view of our approach to the European Union. I don't judge Senator Salvini so careless. Senator Bagnai, in an excellent and very cultured intervention, gave me the opportunity to respond to Senator Candiani, who first mentioned the position held by the Movimento 5 Stars during the election campaign. Senator Bagnai convinced us to raise our heads to the ceiling; let Senator Candiani do it in a room close to this one, which contains a beautiful sentence by Machiavelli: "No good luck ever made them insolent." Well, the insolence and mystification with which positions on the ESM have been presented over the course of these weeks cannot have the right to citizenship in this House. ( [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] ). We have the certainty that the old government has discussed this issue; it has done so on 19 June in both Chambers, the European Council of 20 and 21 June, and it is paradoxical that we continue to discuss whether or not we have discussed this issue rather than - for this we must be grateful to those who raised the controversy - to enter into the substance. The first point on the substance, on which Minister Gualtieri has given certainty and which is contained in the resolution, is the problem of the weighting of government bonds. That is the point I find crucial. Minister Gualtieri declared himself unavailable; he did - it is the opinion of the Italian Group Viva-PSI - the right thing about the refusal of the weighting of government bonds. It has dealt with and solved this problem with a clearly clear position and reported within the resolution. The other issues can be dealt with more quickly. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I would like to say one thing: the new ESM falls within the category of European intergovernmental treaties; it is not a bilateral agreement. I have no doubt. When it comes to discussing this category of treaties, it is better to imagine a transparent preventive negotiation and the daughter of an open learning process involving national parliaments from the outset. I come to the last question, which is the first, because you will be debating not only MES but also the approach that the new European Commission will have to take as a guide to its political activity over the next few years. First of all, a different step is desirable and not only with regard to the economic and financial aspects. Secondly, the international scenario now sees gigantic state entities as protagonists with important countries orbiting their routes. Our destiny cannot be alternative or different from that of a united Europe. What we have experienced in recent years is no longer enough; it must be rethought by giving the most marked powers in foreign and defence policy, together with the most democratic representation procedures possible. There is no alternative; on the contrary, there is the bad alternative of belonging to the role of observers and becoming a vulnerable market. There's a road. He was remembered in a couple of surgeries before mine. Italy was on two major occasions one of the pioneer countries in the construction of the Union; it did so with excellent Catholic statesmen at the end of the Second World War in the Second World War and it did so in the eighties together with Catholic statesmen and democratic socialists who built the Europe in which we live today. Being a pioneer, that is, having a vision, is the only way to widen the Franco-German front. Otherwise we risk reducing ourselves to discuss the diameter of mussels and it is a question that cannot belong to this country. It should be noted that the Union in which we live is not the Union constituted at the end of the 1990s. English is no longer the mother tongue; the countries that belong to it are not only democratic and liberal and the dollar is no longer the leading currency. We take note of this and participate in a process of new construction, otherwise, just because today history is screwed into a dangerous hairpin, but made of extraordinary innovations, we risk remaining on the margins. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u130	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, it is sad to note that neither the Minister for Economic Affairs nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has the specific expertise on the issues we are dealing with, are present in the benches of the Government in this very important debate and in view of a truly significant European Council. That they have the specific competences on the matters we are dealing with is demonstrated precisely by the agenda, which, dear President-in-Office of the Council, is all dangerously inclined against national interests. This is the agenda for the first European Council to exercise the power of the new Commission, dominated by Franco-German interests. It is the first European Council in which, in fact, Britain is absent and the very fact that in the next few hours it will be decided on its future, with the elections that the British will be able to hold, is very important, even in the light of the fact that there is no longer an English Commissioner in the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, dear President, a new European legislature begins in which Italy is marginalized, subordinate and subservient. So much is true, which is demonstrated by the agenda of the work, at the first point of which there is the climate. It seemed strange to me to hear you and then Senator Casini, who made a right-wing speech with left-wing conclusions, note that in the climate agenda Italy should defend the interests of the enterprise (she even said it: small and medium-sized enterprises), and then find ourselves launching a state budget in which there is nothing that should have been the government's climate programme and economic ecology, but instead there is a tax that weighs on companies, that you yourself have called plastic tax. Say one thing, state a principle and do exactly the opposite of what you have said, in Europe and in Italy (in the maneuver). However, the other points, Mr Prime Minister, those which are there and those which are not there, are very dangerous for Italy and show that the agenda, the content and the objectives of this new European phase are extremely dangerous for us. Let us think about the agenda: you yourself said that there is the multiannual financial framework, on which the Finnish proposal is unacceptable; then there is the point on the substance of the common agricultural policy, and the proposal that is being made to us is unacceptable; then there is the new cohesion policy, and the proposal that is being made to us is unacceptable. These are your words, not ours. This is a dangerously inclined plan, on which Italy is at the rear and on the Piave line. This is so true, that we also lack the arguments that interest us: those present are all predisposed against us; those absent are of interest to us. There is nothing about the agreement on migrants in Malta. I say to the Italian Labour Party that the Maltese Labour Party is the example of what has become the Labourism of the Italian and European left, in the hands of speculative international finance and perhaps also of crime. It's the model. Well, there is nothing about the agreement on Malta's migrants, which has disappeared. There is nothing about a foreign policy of our interest. What is happening in these hours in Libya? Maybe in a few hours we'll have more political refugees here, maybe from the Libyan government? In fact, the Libyan situation has plummeted. And here there is nothing about the Italian national interest in Libya and the Mediterranean border. There's also the MES or, better, it's out there. What is on the ESM is the confirmation of the whole agenda, because what is on the ESM, to come to the two resolutions, is a worrying picture. The resolution of the majority, which is hollow, is the resolution of the Democratic Party, to which the Movimento 5 Stars gave its support, contradicting everything that was the program and the political commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars. Well, in the Democratic Party's motion, which is the majority resolution, the fundamental points are so elusive that they leave their senses. In the majority resolution it is still written, basically, to hold the three pillars together. I cannot understand how the three pillars can be held together, when one of them has already been decided since June, clearly and clearly, and it has been postponed for a few months, as Mr Gualtieri had already said in the Finance Committee, only because of a technical condition for translating the text. The rest are operetta fictions. Of the other two pillars the timetable is not yet known and their conclusion will probably come in one or even two years' time. How can we hold together a framework in which we have already decided on the fundamental pillar that concerns us and nothing is clear on the other two pillars? It's an artificial wordbox, which can go well with the 5-star Movimento and the Democratic Party, but it certainly doesn't go well with the national interest. As for the second point, according to which, as the majority resolution says, Parliament's interests must be taken into account in the ESM. But the ESM has already been decided without taking into account the previous resolution adopted by the then majority in government, which was an aggressive majority against the European Union and which has become, with the same President of the Council and the same head of the five-star Movimento delegation, a supine majority in the interests of the European Union. Well, all this goes essentially against the image, role, dignity and interest of our country. Our resolution is a political fact of extraordinary importance, because the center-right forces have all found themselves united on a clear, meaningful, decisive document that gives precise indications and timings as if we were (and in fact already are) in an alternative state of government. The country, in fact, knows that everything that you are harming, we will then have to save it, after what we hope will be early elections. [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] This is so true, President Conte, that you, in your introduction, said that the problem Italy is not there, because Italy supports its debt. Too bad the first Count Government has increased our country's public debt. Too bad that this economic manoeuvre, which we have just examined and will have to approve, perhaps, in a few days, still increases the country's public debt. You, Prime Minister, are very skilled, but you preach well and you rocket very badly. Because it is you, your governments and this majority that are jeopardising the national interest with public debt. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u133	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, in the European Council which the President of the Council is preparing to attend, we will talk about many things. The MES is just a dowel. For example, the Conference on the future of Europe will be discussed. I would like us to challenge ourselves, even with the League, on the idea of Europe that we have, on how national interests are defended. Do we defend our country's national interests only with national measures and within our borders or with the European dimension? Let us give concrete examples of what we will have to deal with at this European Council. With regard to the multiannual financial framework, Senator Urso said that the CAP proposal is unsatisfactory. Are we able to modify it on our own or are we building a system of alliances with France and Spain? Or is it better to ally with Hungary's sovereignists and nationalists, who do not care about our battles? That is the point: do we better protect our country's national interests and bring more resources to Italy if we team up in Europe or if we isolate ourselves? This is the fundamental point and applies to trade policy. Do we really think that we defend the mature manufacturing of our Northern regions by going to Trump alone? But Trump would laugh! Do we really think of putting extra own resources, doing the web tax at the Italian level and then going to the United States and holding up to what Trump tells us? We build trade policy if we hold it firmly at Community level and the interests of our companies can protect them if we play at European level, by building those alliances. This also applies to the climate. Do we think that with national measures alone we can face a global challenge such as the fight against climate change? Today, the President of the Commission, whom we voted together with the representatives of this majority, announced a EUR 1 trillion manoeuvre. Do we really think, only as Italy, with the sovereignist and nationalist way, to address the issue of major climate change, to reduce 50% of emissions by 2030, to be climatically neutral by 2050? Do we really think we can do all this with national sovereignist recipes alone? In Europe we can allocate billions. The same applies to immigration policies. At the European Council we will decide on partnership with Africa. In this maneuver we allocate a few - in my opinion - money for cooperation which is important and we should put more money into it. On the Africa fund we put EUR 30 million; at European level we put EUR 1 billion. Do we really think only as Italy we can deal with a topic such as the management of migratory flows that can only be addressed if Europe invests in Africa together? I could give other examples: do we really think that we alone would have gone to Turkey and could have protected Italian interests in the eastern Mediterranean (when we defend ENI and Italian energy interests) if we had not done so at European level, if President Conte and our Ministers had not gone to Europe to defend the Italian position? This is what is done at every European Council: we have the strength to face the giants at international level that we alone, like Italy, could not face. We challenge you on this: do you have alternative assumptions to face these great challenges? As well as the Berlin Conference: we share and build a position (well what President Conte said about Libya) if we are able to bring together the European allies. I could give a lot of other examples, but I want to get to the theme of the ESM. I think that in the Conference on the Future of Europe a general rethink of financial architecture must be done. I would like to talk about that: about how 20 years after the introduction of the euro we are going to redesign Europe's overall financial architecture, also seeing the mistakes we have made, also seeing how we have progressed on the introduction of the euro and have not completed the economic and monetary union. The logic of the 5 Star Movimento package, Italy Viva and Leu, is precisely this: we understand that the euro alone, without the completion of economic and monetary union, is not enough and we need to proceed in stages. The MES is just a dowel. Moreover, I open a parenthesis to make some historical references, otherwise we forget it: in 2010 and 2011 those who built, carried on, defined in all the stages of the European Councils and then approved the ESM was the Government in which they sat representatives, authoritative moreover, who are also here. One of them sits right next to the leader of the Salvini League, who was Minister of that Government together with Minister Meloni: precisely the leaders who today criticize the ESM are the ones who built and approved it. These are the facts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Take your responsibilities! I didn't hear any statements, screams and screams, just as I didn't hear them in December 2018, at that European Council where the first bricks of the reform of the ESM were placed. I did not hear screams, screams and statements of violations and betrayal of Italian interests, for example, at the European Council on 20 and 21 June. I didn't hear them and you didn't bring home even one of the changes; instead, the other day Minister Gualtieri, with the collaboration of President Conte and Minister Amendola, managed to make, because on the sub-agregation and the transition to single-limb Italy brought home a concrete result - not words, but facts - and we met a request that came from this majority; the letter of Centeno confirms it. Therefore, our work to protect Italian interests is being done in Europe. That is why the resolution we have built is based on a very simple principle: to enable President Conte to go to the European Council and best defend the interests of Italians. The interests of Italians defend themselves in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They defend themselves where Salvini, when there was to discuss the reform of the Coast Guard and the overcoming of Dublin at the European Councils of Interior Ministers, was not there because he was being the representative of the League. The national interests of our country defend themselves in Brussels, not going around in the Italian squares to be a beginner. That's the style. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President Conte and our ministers go to Brussels to defend the interests of Italians, because their job is there, not in the streets to do the meetings. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u136	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on the subject of Europe, I wish, together with the entire League Group, a good vote for the British people who tomorrow will be lucky enough to be able to elect a new Parliament and therefore a new Government, since there are no Ministers attached to the chair in London. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is now a privilege for sovereignty to belong to the people and for the people to vote. So good vote for British friends. We - I say this to President Monti's distracted copy - have no plans to get Italy out of the euro or Europe: we simply want to defend the work and savings of Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Once the left, rightly, abundantly and daily, was in the squares, was in the midst of the people. Now they probably prefer the board of directors of the banks to the works councils that are in some companies. What a sad end! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, we stubbornly continue to want to listen to the citizens, who last weekend in more than five hundred thousand informed themselves and said no to the reform of this Treaty: five hundred thousand terrorists, of course. To these five hundred thousand terrorists we add someone else: "The ESM" - I quote - is a useless organism for us: we do not need it and in any case it would make our situation worse. I would like to read the signatories of this dangerous sovereignist, terrorist, fascist, Nazi, racist appeal, etc.: Professor Nicola Acocella (University La Sapienza of Rome), Professor Sergio Bruno (University La Sapienza of Rome), Professor Sergio Cesaratto (University of Siena), Carlo Clericetti (journalist)... I would like to quote them all, it is 32, because we have the courage to show ourselves in a moment of conformism and squalor as this deserves the citation in the Senate House of the Republic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And I would never want these university teachers to take any chances and be branded with a yellow star, because they had the courage to say no. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Then there are the following signatories: Professor Massimo D'Antoni (University of Siena), Professor Antonio Di Majo, the right one (University Roma Tre), Professor Giovanni Dosi (Higher School Sant'Anna di Pisa), Professor Sebastiano Fadda, (University Roma Tre), Professor Maurizio Franzini (University La Sapienza of Rome)... It's all the real professors, with real competitions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then there are the following signatories: Professor Andrea Fumagalli (University of Pavia), Professor Mauro Gallegati (University of Politecnica delle Marche), Professor PierGiorgio Gawronsky (Economist), Professor Claudio Gnesutta (University of La Sapienza in Rome), Professor Riccardo Leoni (University of Bergamo), Professor Stefano Lucarelli (University of Bergamo)... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] COLLINA (PD). That's the end of time! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). These have not sold out their consistency, to save their armchair. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These, unlike others. They are not part of the sovereignist and terrorist international: they are Italians, university professors, economists and intellectuals, who question a treaty. Because here, even just questioning the European verb means committing sin of miserable majesty. I think that Europe's real enemies are the euro-obtuse, so whatever comes from Brussels must be signed without even reading it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are the enemies of Europe. We will save Europe: look at it! Let's go ahead with the list, because it seems right to quote them all: Professor Ugo Marani, (University of Oriental Naples), Professor Massimiliano Mazzanti (University of Ferrara), Professor Domenico Mario Nuti (University La Sapienza of Rome), Professor Ruggero Paladini (University La Sapienza of Rome), Professor Gabriele Pastrello (University of Trieste), Professor Anna Pettini (University of Florence), Professor Paolo Pini (University of Ferrara), Professor Felice Roberto Pizzuti (University La Sapienza of Rome), Professor Cesare Pozzi (University LUISS, University of dangerous terrorists and sovereigns linked to Confindustria, known subversive international body, Professor Riccardo Realfonzo (University of Sannio), Professor Roberto Romano (Economist), Professor Guido Rey (University Sant'Anna di Pisa), Professor Roberto Schiatarella (University of Camerino), Professor Alessandro Somma (University La Sapienza University of Rome), Professor Antonella Università Rey (University of Rome), Professor Antonella Trellati). [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] It's annoying, but this is Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With all due respect to my friend Casini, this is Italy. [[Living Comments from PD and IV-PSI Groups]] MORONESE (M5S). It's not an intervention, it's a phone book! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, let me finish the surgery! Please, Senator Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It's amazing how colleagues in the Democratic Party fill their mouths with "school", "university" and "research" and when you mention university professors, who have a different idea than theirs, get nervous. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But live freedom in universities! Long live freedom of thought and speech, dear God! At least this, for the time being, is guaranteed. They are missing and I would never wrong them, Professor Andrea Ventura, of the University of Florence, Professor Giuseppe Vitaletti, of the University of Tuscia and Professor Gennaro Zezza, of the University of Cassino. Mr Laus (PD). Stay on the piece! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). After this prohibition list is over, I'll read another passage. Before I read the text I wasn't (...) worried, after reading it carefully I am very worried. The Treaty is dangerous for Italy and increases the risk of a financial crisis. Among the weaknesses of this new ESM, there is also the criminal shield for its members. [[Comments by Senators Bottici, Bressa and Mirabelli.]] In this House, someone removes the criminal shield on Ilva and gives it to a body like the ESM, which will not respond to anything or anyone. [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group,]] [[whose components stand up. Comments by Senators Bottici, Bressa and Mirabelli.]] Go explain it to the workers of the Ilva of Taranto, that the shield does not apply to Taranto, but goes to Brussels...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u137	Senator Bottici, remember that you are a Senator Commissioner.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u138	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Go explain it to the workers of the Ilva of Taranto, that the shield does not apply to Taranto, but applies to Brussels and to your friends. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ! I'd be ashamed to do that. The dangerous sovereignist terrorist I mentioned, by his unconscious will "written" to the League, is Professor Luca Ricolfi, one of the freest minds of this country [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and I also thank him for the criticisms he has often and willingly addressed to me. I'm not interested in friends, I'm also interested in opponents, but who maintain the intellectual honesty to say that, if it's Wednesday today, it's Wednesday. And if someone in Brussels decides that Wednesday is called Friday, there is no Democratic Party to hold. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In this country sovereignty belongs not to the Democratic Party, but to the people, in Emilia-Romagna, as in Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I turn to two reflections on the European Council ( [[Comments of Senators Nugnes and Boldrini]] ). I ask the faded copy of Professor Monti to try to fight at least to avoid the cut of 3 billion euros to the detriment of Italian farmers. If they decide in Brussels that Parmigiano Reggiano or Grana Padano are bad, let them continue to eat what they want: we will continue to give our children Parmigiano Reggiano and Grana Padano, whatever they say in Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] I hope that at least this is in our freedom. I also pray that Professor Monti's faded copy will also work to cut the gift of 5 billion euros to the Turkish regime, which shouts revenge to the world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a regime that does not recognise civil rights, freedom of religion and journalistic profession, or economic rights. If time goes on, I also invite the Government to stand by the Israeli Government to bring other wealth and gas to Italy, completing the EastMed pipeline (Israel, Cyprus, Greece and Italy) without ideological prejudice, because those who hate Israel are out of time and out of the world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]] Today anti-Semitism means hating Israel, and if anyone in this House hates Israel, it should be removed out of respect for the past, the present and the future. Let me turn to the last reflection. Some reporters talk about the cow market. In the 5 Star Movimento electoral programme we read a passage that I shared at the time and I share today: The 5 Star Movement will commit itself to the dismantling of the ESM. I haven't changed my mind. Long live consistency and live Italy! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u141	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will not have an easy task tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at the European Council, trying to defend the position of the Italian Government and, hopefully, Italy. Precisely for this reason, you would need to represent a Government and a coalition united to represent Italy's position strongly compared to others who have different interests (nor worse, nor better, but different). On the other hand, unfortunately, you are the head of a majority which, on the subject we are talking about today in particular, namely the European Stability Mechanism, and on many others, is extremely divided. You are at the head of a majority today - 11 December, 20 days before the end of the year - still in a position between a third and a tenth of the work to be done for the first reading in the Commission between the various parliamentary readings that must be done to approve the budgetary maneuver. This also weakens Italy's position abroad. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Of course, it weakens it because there are those who, as we have just heard from the 5 Star Movement programme, put the exit from the euro and those who have very different ideas and who are always part of the same coalition until recently at the top of economic priorities. This makes his task more difficult. We have taken part in the joint drafting of the motion for a resolution of the right centre and we are very pleased with the work done, because we also give you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the strong elements to be brought to the table of the European Council. You will be able to say, not on all points, but at least on some of them, what we stress (we would hope that you would defend all our points, but of course you will have to listen first to your majority), that you have the support not only of the majority - perhaps the majority of your majority - but also of the opposition. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This I believe must weigh, because the government must look after the interests of Italians, not only those who are there today and who may vote tomorrow, but also long-term interests, because here we really talk about the future of our country, even those who are young or very young and probably the new rules that will be approved if they find them for the future. We expressed... BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr. President-in-Office, can you please listen? Thank you. MALAN (FIBP-UDC). We have made very clear our priorities with regard to the ESM. We call for no mention to be made of the need for debt restructuring, nor in a compulsory way - as the first version was - nor in a discretionary way, i.e. that the competent authorities may decide that in a particular case they are asking for restructuring and in another case they are not asking for it. We have seen too many times the interests of others prevail and not those of Italy. We have asked, in essence, to prevent Italy from paying for ESM interventions with which it may not agree. We therefore call for a unanimous vote, because the current mechanism is not true that it gives the possibility of veto to Italy, but it only gives it to France and Germany, and this obviously cannot be done. These words, like those previously said, are also clearly expressed by Antonio Tajani, who until a few months ago was President of the European Parliament, so surely a top-notch European. We must ask the European Parliament to be involved in monitoring these financial mechanisms. We must remedy the figure of this Director-General of the ESM, a very powerful figure, obviously far from the expression of the citizens. Otherwise, if it is proposed to European citizens (not only Italians), a director-general elected by no one who has the power to move hundreds of billions, much more than Heads of State, elected by the citizens, it is clear that the feeling of the citizens will move away from Europe. We cannot complain that there is a bad attitude towards Europe. We call for this to be included in a broad framework of reforms, in which the debt is taken into account not only the public debt, but also the private debt and the debt of companies. This would greatly benefit Italy and would be a more appropriate and economically sound criterion. More generally, we call for a more active role for Parliament in monitoring the economic policy of the European Union. But that is not all we are going to talk about at this European summit; there are other things too: the multiannual financial framework (essentially the EU budget) is being discussed. We certainly ask you to support a transition to eco-sustainability, but not some plan that would damage the industrial and economic development of our continent. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , because we cannot accept measures whereby Europe is self-imposed on the limits that other countries do not impose, so it would worsen our competitiveness and, in the end, our ability to truly defend the environment. We ask you to fight for Italian interests to be defended in the European budget, in particular for the chapter on agriculture and fisheries, which are at risk of cuts. We are asking for more money for infrastructure, because it is these that undoubtedly unify Europe, such as the TAV (but it is just one example), on which we in the centre-right have very clear ideas while we know that for others it is not so. We also call for greater attention and more funds for the management of migratory flows and we call for a genuine policy for Europe in relation to Africa, China, Venezuela and Israel. As Senator Salvini said (I greatly appreciated this passage) on too many issues, and we are talking for example about Venezuela, China and also Israel, the current majority has expressed very uneven positions, to be optimistic, and indeed clearly contradictory. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We also call for more transparency in the European budget with regard to financing non-governmental organisations. Over the last four years, more than 11 billion has been given to non-governmental organisations, without transparency and without any detailed knowledge of the recipients of these funds and the plans that are being carried out. We then ask you for an appropriate position on Russia, as my fellow Members have already said, because we all have the interest, in particular Italy, in overcoming the current situation of conflict between the European Union and Russia, and we ask you to defend the interests of our citizens in the United Kingdom. In a word, we ask you to defend Italy's interests in the European Union. We as Forza Italia have always done it, Silvio Berlusconi has done it in all his roles and we continue to do it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] For us, the European Union is a framework in which we feel part, but, precisely because we feel part of it, we believe that Italy has a duty to assert the interests of Italians. We also ask you to do so, knowing that the government that comes after yours will be a center-right government, on which we have clear ideas. But know that we will already support it today on what it will do also on the points where we commit ourselves. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u144	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, if I have not heard correctly, Senator Salvini has just said: I haven't changed my mind. Did I hear that right? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then I say to myself and ask you, President Conte: but it was only we in the Movimento 5 Stars, in the resolution of 19 June last, discussed in this House, to commit the Government - and here again, Senator Salvini, I quote - to promote a joint assessment, in the European context, of the three elements of the deepening package of economic and monetary union - the reform of the Treaty of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme (EDIS), and the euro area budget -...... -.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And you're coming today to tell us you haven't changed your mind? [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We had entered into a contract with you in June 2018. Go and read again - naturally considering the validity you give to the contracts you sign - what we had written about the ESM. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We agreed on the reform of the ESM, in full awareness that the ESM cannot be deleted and cannot be abolished. [[Comments of Senator Bagnai]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u145	Go ahead, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u146	LICHERI (M5S). I understand that it is easier for the League to exercise for months, to run away in the face of responsibilities and the need to protect interests. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] What does it mean to say "we are for the protection of the work and savings of Italians"? How much rhetoric, how much reclamation, how much propaganda! Have we read the call of the 32 economists of Italian universities? You were right to read it. But I also read you the conclusion of that rational analysis of the ESM. The rejection of the logic that has so far prevailed in Europe, thus concludes that appeal, which has proved to be a loser from the point of view of effectiveness. Compromise is possible and desirable, but it is achieved when each of the parties takes into account the positions and needs of the others, which has not so far taken place. That is the end of the appeal you referred to! [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Critical positions are legitimate, indeed they are appropriate; never as at this time they are appropriate, but criticism must be constructive. With the escape from responsibility, nothing is built; political life cannot be passed on to escape. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You ran away this summer because there were 23 billion euros to find to try to avoid the VAT stagata to the Italians: a very difficult task that we have assumed. You ran away. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] The MES is a business... let's also try to understand it. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] We can turn it around and turn it around... WOMAN (M5S). President, make them stop. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues. LICHERI (M5S). We can turn around as much as we want the MES dossier; we can also go back in the history books and go get what we had said on one side and on the other, but one thing is certain: if in 2011 there had been the Movement, if in 2011, when we wrote the rules of this instrument (which would then become an instrument of austerity), the MES - this MES - would never have been there. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator Nugnes]] It would never have come to light. In 2011, when the MES was written, we weren't there, you were there! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There was Monti! [[Vivacious protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] LICHERI (M5S). You were there. The hands that wrote the MES are not ours; they are yours! [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator Nugnes.]] [[Vivacious protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I see your faces; in 2011 you were there.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u147	There's no need to scream; please sit down, keep going.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u148	[[Vivacious protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Please, Senator Licheri, continue. LICHERI (M5S). Therefore, thanks to you there is and cannot be deleted; it cannot be abolished. [[Senator Bagnai's comments.]] However, it can be improved. We must clearly find a way to improve it, and we have adopted the so-called logic of the package, which is actually a little ugly; people probably do not know it or do not understand it. To make me understand, it is as if we had to use money to buy a car and, once we went to a dealership, they showed us the wheel or the hood or even the engine. In that case I would say: "No, the car I want to see it whole; then, once I see it, I will decide whether it is a car that can take me where I want to go." [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The 5 Star Movement does not consider the ESM a taboo, an untouchable relic, and Senator Alfieri is right when he said that we are facing a piece of a mosaic of reforms that constitute a step forward towards a project for the creation of a large common European house that can truly contain integration within it; an integration that is not only financial, economic, monetary. It's a big house. It is, however, a large house - and we must all be careful - that can no longer contain only taxes and cuts in social services: it is a house that will have to contain investments. It can no longer be a house that contains finance, the economy of finance, financial speculation. It will be a house that will have to contain an economy that is eco-solid, that is circular; an economy that is sustainable, where the concept of sustainability we give not only an environmental value, but also a social value. That is why we say: let us be careful and consider this mosaic, which is wonderful because it is the mosaic that will then have to welcome our children. However, we must consider it in its entirety. That's what the logic of the package is. The ESM is reformed, but the single insurance of bank deposits is also built, so that the savings of Italian citizens and also of European citizens can be secured. Let us build a euro budget, a single budget for Europe so that there can actually be development, sustainability and competitiveness, so that real opportunities for growth can be given to Italian and European citizens. Of course, if we look at that disastrous 2011, the chronicles say that in that year the House was voted on to include the balance of the budget in the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And who voted for it? In August 2011, VAT was increased from 20 percent to 21 percent. Who increased it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who made those fugitives? VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Them! (At the address of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group). LICHERI (M5S). Who bowed to the wishes of the Germans? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Have the Germans put the budget balance in the Constitution? They don't, you do.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u149	Sorry, you can't photograph. No one can photograph, not even from the stands.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u150	Go ahead, Senator Licheri. LICHERI (M5S). Let us then consider the ESM for what it is: an extraordinary opportunity for growth. But be careful, we don't want to hide behind a finger, in the sense that we don't like the MES as it is. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We do not like the veiled call to debt restructuring, even if possible; we do not like the possible penalization of our state bonds; we do not like the recognition of a decision-making power to a technocratic body that in some way can compete in supremacy with the political body; we do not like all attempts to credit our state bonds as securities at risk. There are many things that we do not like, but one thing is certain: we also have to press the accelerator on environmental, green and social development. We need investments, we need to ask for infrastructure, social, green investments that can secure the integrity of our soil and our territory. All this, however, must be done by detaching ourselves from the algebraic parameters of the deficit-GDP ratio. We can't do that if we stick to those parameters. So that is the message that we must send to Brussels. We gave a vote to von der Leyen [[Comments of the Group L-SP-PSd'Az.]] But, President, really work like this... We voted on von der Leyen, but it is not a blank bill. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. No! LICHERI (M5S). We voted for the von der Leyen because it has put in its policy lines the identity themes of the Movimento 5 Stars. These are our issues, such as the European minimum wage, guarantee and unemployment insurance, green investment and overcoming the Dublin Regulation. These are all the themes that have characterized our electoral campaign. Finally, I address you, President Conte, to respond to what Senator Salvini has observed, I say that immunity has always been there. There has always been, as with all international institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] She's never missed. So, you have to study before you come here and talk. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments and hilarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If you find out today, it's your problem. President. - The debate is closed. You asked in a letter of 20 June, addressed to Brussels, for the beginning of a new constituent phase. The 5 Star Movement will support it in this new constituent phase, but the ESM will only be part of this new constituent phase if it can be a generator mechanism of social justice and freedom. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] . Many congratulations). CHOIR OF VOICES BY GROUP L-SP-PSD'AZ. Bravo! Bravo! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). President, they turn the Senate into a carnival and let them do it!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u152	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u153	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, the European Stability Mechanism, as we all know, was born on 9 December 2011 and this in order to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole by making the granting of any necessary financial assistance - and it is textual - subject to strict conditionality. It is also well known that in June this year Parliament adopted a resolution which commits the Government not to approve amendments providing for conditionality that will penalise those Member States which most need structural reforms and investment and which undermine the prerogatives of the European Commission in the field of tax surveillance, and to make known to the Chambers the proposals for amendments to the Treaty drawn up at European level, in order to enable Parliament to express itself by means of an act of direction and consequently to suspend any definitive determination until Parliament has given its opinion. To this must be added the Law Moavero, which requires the Government to inform Parliament on every initiative aimed at concluding financial agreements. The comparison between Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the same law does not seem to allow me to conclude that in financial matters it is sufficient to inform the Commissions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Nevertheless, we find ourselves considering a reformed text of which we have not had timely contemporaneousness. The issue of the dispute is not as much as the individual parties have been content with the negotiations; the real issue is that Parliament has not been informed in time and in good time, giving it the opportunity to intervene in the negotiations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups and Senator Testor]] Today we find ourselves in the presence of a text that has already been largely exhausted in terms of its treatment and in respect of which the margins of intervention appear to be completely reduced, if not absent. The government tries to escape the contradiction, the vulnus to the prerogatives of Parliament by placing the signature of the Treaty within a package that includes the BCC and EDIS, but the framework seems to me flawed since the three elements mentioned in the so-called package proceed at different speeds. In general, I cannot fail to stress the total denial of the Movimento programme on the subject. The ESM is born in order to influence the political choices of those states in difficulty. Once again we are faced with forgotten structures that one of the key principles of modern democracies is: no taxation without representation. This principle, at least in a trend, should have presided over every negotiation on the subject. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] To defend this foundation does not mean to be sovereignists or anti-Europeanists, but to defend democracy and not that of just one people, but that of all those peoples that make up that extraordinary cultural unity of values and principles that we call Europe. Democracy counts more than markets, it reminds us of Fitoussi. For these reasons, I declare my dissenting vote by the Group and I consider that I no longer recognize myself in the policies of my Movimento. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u156	URRARO (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Stability Mechanism is an important and sensitive issue which, in my view, has not been properly addressed in this last period. This is said by the very fact that little space has been given to Parliament's classrooms in the matter of comparison, evaluation and approval of the text itself, a text of which this House is only hearing today, containing amendments. I do not think that the centrality of the Chambers should be used only in extremely critical cases. If Italy had something to fear or not it had to be decided in the appropriate places and in the due times: unfortunately this did not happen. In these days and hours we are dealing with the ESM only after several alarms launched from several parts and learning from sources of the Eurogroup that the agreement is concluded. The European Stability Mechanism guarantees financial stability for members of the euro area, as well as possible assistance in the event of a crisis and, as Mr Grassi said earlier, rules have been introduced governing the proper relationship between the Government and Parliament in the case of financial initiatives. We find ourselves considering a reformed text, of which we have had no confidence and on which we have not had the opportunity to intervene in Parliament during the negotiations, as provided for in the so-called Moavero law, which requires the Government to inform Parliament of any initiative aimed at concluding financial agreements, in accordance with Articles 5, 6 and 7. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] For Italy, however, the ESM should be a vacuum and a failure: there are insufficient funds and, in the event of a crisis in a Member State, it would only be necessary to intervene by the European Central Bank. Our country, among other things, represents the third net contributor and can not possibly hinder or decide the appointment of one of the most powerful and influential summits, including the director-general of the fund. The three elements mentioned in the so-called package discussed, namely the reform of the ESM and the adoption of the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness and the definition of the European deposit insurance system, are still proceeding at different speeds, without it being materially possible for any of them to reach an overall assessment, given the impossibility for national parliaments to understand the actual state of each individual negotiation. I therefore do not deny that I was quite disappointed: the ESM theme has been too marginalised; a number of critical issues are addressed every day and there are constant contradictions in the majority, which still undermine the government's path. It is therefore clear that this issue is outside the 5 Star Movement programme, partly because the ESM is born with the aim of conditioning the political choices of the states in difficulty. As far as I am aware, therefore, I am voting in favour of the Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u158	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u159	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, since the Group's dissenting explanations of vote are taking on too much importance - particularly political - I would like to make it clear that my explanation of vote is not prodromic dissent at group change. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I want to say this very clearly. I just want to call on my parliamentary group and the Government to be careful about one issue, because the resolution is an invitation not to think about the elephant, but, President Conte, it is called MES and it is within a neoliberal architecture of Europe. The Censis takes a photograph of Italy that is dangerous and I tell all of us, ruling class, because it is that of a country where if you fall you do not have the opportunity to get back up. Never before do we need a serious and incisive expansive policy, which Europe denies us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senator Testor.]] The MES is therefore in danger of being another evil piece of insane and wrong architecture, but it is the only one possible because it is dear to neoliberalism. I don't like this. I did an election campaign on a program that was very clear. I do not want to repeat what others have already mentioned in this House (because, of course, the ball is played when it is needed), but it is true: we in the electoral programme had written certain things, of severe criticism towards Europe and we cannot pretend anything because we now have an alliance with the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I call, apart from any positioning, for a great deal of thought to be given to which Europe. I am strongly Eurocritical: it is known, otherwise you would not have nominated me. It was so well known that I wrote books about it and I went on television, so it is not that it is now discovered that Paragon is Eurosceptic or Eurocritical. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, I think that, never as at this stage, a serious reflection is needed. Never at this stage in which Japan is putting on the plate a chip of 13,000 billion yen, equal to 109 billion euros to spend in the coming months: this means stimulating growth, this means giving a boost to an economy that needs growth. Italy alone can't do it? I don't know. But surely Europe, with its policies, denies us the opportunity to grow. When we are on the eve of an incredible challenge, in which workers risk being excluded from robotics processes, how do we plan to save them? With the few change and the rest of nothing that Europe leaves us? That is why I say no to this resolution. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u161	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u162	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I believe that this moment is quite significant, because it represents a bit of the paradigm of what is Movimento 5 Stars and the situation that is going through at the political level. I say this because this moment, this decision and this resolution represent a political attitude which, in my opinion, is degraded in a worse way than in other situations, such as the debate on the TAV or the Ilva. Clearly, we have a management and organizational problem of a system and a parliamentary group that is totally waterproof to any contribution that can be made. Why do I say that? Because today we are witnessing a sort of bluff: this morning, in fact, at 10:00, we found out that a resolution had been tabled, that we discovered was written by the government, that it was deposited here in the Senate, that it will be voted by the senators and that it commits the government to do certain things. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This seems like a surreal situation to me. We could've done something else. We could have chosen a more elegant and institutional line: not that of communications, but an information in which the Government, legitimately and rightly, informs that it has decided to do things, because it is right that you decide them and we do them. There wouldn't have been a vote and it would've been more gentlemanly in my opinion. It wasn't like that. I immediately denounced that this would be an uninclusive path. I immediately denounced him when I saw a Undersecretary for European Affairs pulling the strings of our resolution, saying that he would write it while the resolution is being tabled by the senators! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I denounced, when I saw a President of the European Affairs Commission say: let us not write anything in this resolution, let us not put stakes on the negotiators. Instead, I am a senator and the stakes in the government I want to put them, because this is my function! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from M5S and PD Groups]] LICHERI (M5S). Shame on you! That's not true! [[Senator Marcucci's lively comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u163	Senator Licheri, you spoke and you weren't disturbed. Please sit down and have Senator Lucidi finish. Senator Lucidi, speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u164	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, however, to allow me to recover my time. If you'll allow me to conclude. I'm sorry, ma'am, but that's the facts. She gave a heartwarming and beautiful speech, in perfect 5 Star style, but there is one thing that has always rewarded the Movimento 5 Stars and it was consistency, consistency has always rewarded us. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). What about yours? LUCIDES (M5S). And since some election seems to me that we're losing it, I'd do a test instead of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, finish. LUCIDES (M5S). I have concluded and I simply say that someone, a few days ago, said - and this is no accident and joins this resolution which I do not agree with - that the elections in Umbria were an experiment. So, I personally don't feel like a guinea pig and I don't even feel like a hamster, so I walk out of the wheel and vote no. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Protests from M5S and PD Groups. Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u166	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u167	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, until a few minutes ago I was absolutely convinced that it was correct what the whole centre-right had decided, that is, a resolution with strong but calm tones, that it was respectful of the serious problem that the ESM represents for Italy and respectful of the positions of others, even though it was very firm and determined. But in the course of the comparison... There's no Count. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Isn't Count here? All right, why, when has Count ever been in this House? Who ever saw him, where was he elected? Missing Count doesn't change anything at all. It doesn't change anything! [[Applause from the FdI Group. Protests from M5S and PD Groups]] MIRABELLI (PD). President, you can't let this happen! That's not possible! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). What's going on? What's going on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But if you scream, I can't hear anything! [[Reiterating protests from M5S and PD Groups]] MORONESE (M5S). It's not a dissenting intervention! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). They're mad at me! What did I say? I vote in dissent from the Group! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, are you making a dissenting statement yes or no? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Yes, but it's complicated! [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u168	Then face it! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Exactly in the way and with the times of others, who said in the end why they vote in dissent. Let's be clear: there aren't the best and the ones who come after they're always on this side. We're more or less the same!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u169	[[Comments from the PD Group]] STEFANO (PD). Absolutely not! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). We're a little more stupid, but we're here. So, Mr President, my statement is in dissension because I will not vote, because for me to vote no after what I heard from Senator Licheri is too little. I think that if the centre-right had heard before Licheri's statements he would not have tabled that resolution, he would have left the Chamber to leave them alone with their responsibilities. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Then don't come to the Chamber! Stay home! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). That is why I ask Senator Licheri, President, first of all for a problem of consistency... [[Vivacious protests from M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u170	Colleagues, let Senator La Russa express his dissent as he wishes to express it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u171	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). But why can't I talk? Can I talk to you for two minutes or not? [[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u172	I don't understand! Let him speak! It's ending.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u173	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I understand you're burning... president. He said that he made a dissenting statement from his Group because he will not vote. It's a dissenting statement. Please, Senator La Russa. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Just like the others, ma'am, check the weather. I ask Senator Licheri that he took it out on the League - because then always there you go to end, with a "you were there too!" and "there was a contract" - but he also took it with the Government of which I was part, that of 2011. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u174	I'll run the Chamber, sit down! Don't let it happen, just sit down, okay? SANTANGELO (M5S). Then direct it! Direct it! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Calm down! Calm down! SANTANGELO (M5S). Direct it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sit down! Don't you dare! I'm warning you!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u175	[[Protests from M5S and PD Groups]] Mr Marcucci (PD). President, why not them? They're up, too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator La Russa, terms. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, you will inform me that I spoke less than sixty seconds. (Exchange of apostrophes between the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the M5S and PD Groups). Are you afraid of words? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, everybody just sit down. Everybody sit down! Mr Marcucci (PD). Salvini's up, too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on! Everybody sit down! [[Live comments from PD and M5S Groups]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). He said the ESM was made in 2011. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Stay seated and allow the debate to take place regularly. [[Comments from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Mr Marcucci (PD). When Salvini sits down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator La Russa, terms. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Salvini's up! Salvini's up! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). What's going on? I don't understand, ma'am. Who are they mad at? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's up, too. Sit down. Sit down. MORONESE (M5S). They turn their backs on the presidency! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, stop for a second. I'll stop you for a second. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). How many seconds do I have, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everybody sit down, because I think the debate should take place in an orderly manner. It doesn't go on until everyone sits down. Please sit down. [[Live comments from PD, M5S and IV-PSI Groups]] MIRABELLI (PD). If Salvini sits down, we sit down. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Let me talk 60 seconds! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have the courtesy of finishing a colleague. Are you protesting why the others are standing? [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] I don't understand anything, because they're screaming. What's the protest? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Senator Mirabelli, among other things I was going to say that the PD intervention seemed absolutely respectful of your positions. What I didn't understand - and I ask Senator Licheri in sixty seconds - is how he claims that the 2011 ESM is the same thing as this. Did you happen to notice that here we are talking about debt restructuring that puts Italian savings at risk? Did you notice that it became a saved German banks, which wasn't before? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I stopped the time. Get it done. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, what we had to say was that we said with Giorgia Meloni not only in Parliament, but also in Brussels, because the ESM is an enemy of the Italians' will to be able to take care of their sovereignty. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u176	Before we proceed to the vote, I should like to say that the following letter has been received: "Rome, 11 December 2019 I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, that the Constitutional Court, meeting today in its headquarters of the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. F.to Marta Cartabia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u177	I note that, in line with established practice, the motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. The motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Calderoli has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups]] VOICES FROM THE PD AND M5S CATEGORIES. The Russian voted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, did you vote? VOICES FROM M5S AND PD CATEGORIES. Yes, he voted!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u178	Mr President, I do not vote for the centre-right motion for a resolution. [[Protests from M5S and PD Groups.]] Colleagues, I have said nothing at all about your motion for a resolution. [[Lively protests from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u181	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I was wrong to vote. My vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u182	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u183	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u185	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to publicly thank Senator Urania Papatheu, who this morning, by appealing to the Sicilian senators present, said that no one in recent months, since we are in the government, has spoken about the earthquake and the consequences that have occurred in the past years. I therefore intervene on a personal basis, because the so-called earthquake of Saint Stephen, of December 26, 2018, which struck nine municipalities in the province of Catania, I warned him personally, as I am native to those places and immediately, after a few hours of the event, I immediately did my utmost. In these days I have undertaken to make a summary of the activities carried out, since next December 26 will take a year from the earthquake and, at local level, a series of initiatives is being organised. I would therefore like to point out that the government of that time and the Movimento 5 Stars immediately worked, through the undersigned and later also through other colleagues and the following day was present in the territories affected by the then vice-premier Luigi Di Maio. On 28 December the Council of Ministers passed its resolution and, from that moment on, there was a succession of legislative interventions and at government level, testifying to a punctual intervention. After the state of emergency, orders were issued no. 566, 567 and 570. Then there was the so-called unblocking of construction sites, to which I personally worked, at a technical table created on the territory with technical activists, such as geologists and engineers, and also local people to elaborate interventions: with this measure we made sure to intervene immediately. There are a lot of speeches and I am not here to list them. I will have the opportunity to respond on time but not on a personal basis, as indicated by the Senate's Rules of Procedure, but because I want the truth to emerge. In the election campaign I carried on my political activity with proposals. I have never justified my not doing about not doing others, so let alone justifying my doing about not doing others. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By the way, I know my colleague, who is local. I would like at least an apology, because this personal, direct and nominative attack also extends the extremes for legal intervention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u186	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u188	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, I too am speaking as a result of the heartfelt appeal of my colleague Urania Papatheu. I would simply ask you to document yourself on the work that is being done and also to help, given that some amendments have been tabled to the draft budget law concerning our island (from the provincial roads, to the failing provinces, to the earthquake, to the correction of the deficit).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u189	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-172.ana.u190	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 12 December 2019, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.47 p.m.
