ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 12 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u3	I communicate that on 13 February 2019 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: by the President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 1 of 8 January 2019 introducing urgent measures in support of Banca Carige S.p.a. - Cassa di Risparmio di Genova and Imperia.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u7	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, yesterday and in recent days a very serious fact has happened again for our parliamentary democracy. We have a Rules of Procedure, which we decided to follow up at the meeting of the Leaders, devoting the whole week to the work of the Commissions and then arriving in this House. This work did not take place for the most part and I wonder why, Mr President. President Pesco himself denounced the government's difficulty at this stage during his work. I believe that we need to meet as soon as possible and understand what is going on and whether the delay in work in the Commission is linked to the decision and the vote that will take place this afternoon in the Council for the authorization to proceed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I wonder if this delay and paralysis of the government's work and votes is the result of blackmail - I use the correct term - by one part of the majority and the government against the other, so that the crime of kidnapping can be added to the blackmail, or if there are other reasons. Mr President, you were with me at the meeting of the Leaders when the Leaders of the 5 Star Movement and the League confirmed their willingness to move forward on the work and finish it yesterday in order to be able to arrive in this House today. Therefore, let us be told in political terms, with transparency, clarity and simplicity, both to us and to the country, what is happening in Italy and in our Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us be told what we are witnessing, if there is for the first time blackmail within the government and the majority. Mr President, I believe that work cannot go on unless a Conference of Leaders is convened immediately to understand and know what is going on in the government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u10	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, on the subject of Mr Marcucci's place, we have seen the convening of the Committees for Work and Budget. On Saturday the Commission's work assessed some amendments and then suspended the work. So, he kept the Senate open to do almost nothing. I don't value the erarial damage, in this case, it's not my responsibility. Yesterday, during the day, the Commission was deported to work; the 5th Commission was convened at noon, then moved to 4 p.m., from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m., there was no government and it was finally deconsecrated. It is not a serious, orderly and respectful behavior of the role of Parliament, respectful of the Senate. The majority and the government must absolutely respond to these behaviors. It is disappointing what we are witnessing, it is saddening for the institution, even before for us individual parliamentarians, that this institution, however, we compose. I understand that yesterday we had to wait for the results of the Rousseau platform: just tell us. In this case, perhaps those Members who had to study the papers and then access the Rousseau platform have wasted time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Either one or the other; of the two. That's what we need to evaluate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, at a time when the country is losing its gross domestic product and all indicators give a degrowth far from happy, at a time when we cannot have a compass of our national and international policy, we are joking with the institution: the majority of this Parliament is joking with the Senate and the House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why I join with the considerations of Senator Marcucci, who calls for his speech, as Presidency and as Bureau, at the Conference of Leaders, to give an answer, to give order. Democracy is first and foremost rules and order. It is true that we are now abandoning it and moving towards direct democracy, but we are not yet there: this country still has a Constitution and the Constitution called, to descend, rules. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are all bound to abide by these rules, until we decide to change them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why we are calling for you, Mr President, to convene the Conference of Group Leaders and give them a serious timetable for their work, also giving time to the majority - because we are in democracy and respect for the political side - to agree. It can happen. Normally I am not led to scream, I am a mediator, so I admit that it can happen that he does not agree: agree, take the necessary time, but do not make fun of us, because this way you do not mock us, but Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u13	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I agree with what previous speakers have said. I would like to stress one problem, Mr President: unfortunately, once again, the history of all time is being repeated. Today is the platform Rousseau, yesterday were other issues, however the problem we are facing is the following: the majority and the government do not put in condition the Commissions to carry out their function. There is a dialectic that is entirely internal to the majority and then arrives - and that is what you, Mr President, have to speak on - at the last moment that is useful for expressing opinions. At that point the positions of the oppositions are basically dismissed. Now, let's have the group leaders' meeting, but let's give it a method. You, Mr President, must ensure that the function of opposition is guaranteed. It is not possible for the 5th Commission, as Totò would say, to express its opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution for the opposition's amendments and to do exactly the opposite for the majority's amendments, until the majority's dialectic resolves its problems. Now, Mr President, the matter is in no place: either you ensure that this attitude of the Government and the majority changes, in order to ensure that democratic dialectic takes place in the Commissions and in this House, or this House and these Commissions will have an absolutely secondary role and not respectful of the constitutional functions assigned to the Senate and to the Commissions. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u14	In the light of the observations of Senators Marcucci, Pichetto Fratin and Errani, I convoke the Conference of the Leaders for today, at 3 p.m., to verify the continuation of the assembly work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 881. I would remind you that at its meeting on 7 February the rapporteur supplemented the written report and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u16	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the statements made by the senators, who repeat concepts repeatedly addressed in the Commission. The issue of the measure of proportionality in the distribution of seats or guarantee measures for the representation of minorities presupposes choices of principle in electoral matters that do not reflect the ratio of the draft law under consideration, which aims only to ensure the applicability of electoral laws regardless of the number of parliamentarians, without producing substantial changes to the electoral legislation in force, and thus to avoid a regulatory vacuum in the event that, following the change in the number of parliamentarians, the Chambers should be dissolved. Any rethinking of the electoral law can be discussed elsewhere. As pointed out by some interventions, in fact, there is certainly time to modify the electoral law, even deeply, while it is necessary to avoid - and here I answer to Senator De Petris - the hypothesis of normative void deriving from the necessity to intervene on the reformulation of the colleges, since Article 3 of this bill provides for a delegation to the Government for the determination of the single and plurinomial colleges, to which it is possible to proceed if, within twenty-four months of the entry into force of this law, an amendment of the number of the members of the two Chambers, pursuant to the articles 56, second paragraph, and 57, second paragraph, of the Constitution. I would also point out that the reference to the number of seats and colleges was introduced in both single electoral texts only under Law No 165, 3 November 2017, while the electoral legislation previously had mechanisms that would apply regardless of the number of parliamentarians. In particular, the laws of 4 August 1993, n. 276 and n. 277, in introducing the quota of seats to be allocated in the single colleges and that to be attributed with a proportional method, referred to a percentage or a report on the total number of seats (75 and 25 per cent of the total number of deputies and three-quarters and a quarter of the senators of each region respectively), with a drafting technique that allowed the functioning of the system even in the event of a change in the number of parliamentarians. The aim of this proposal is therefore to return to an approach involving, instead of a fixed number of single seats, a fraction of the total number of Members and senators. It is considered that this mechanism can be the only solution for the electoral law to become flexible in relation to the variable number of parliamentarians set out in the Constitution. With particular reference to the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, I would like to stress that I have included an amendment in the draft law which allows me to settle all the requests I have received, in order to remain faithful to the guarantees granted to Trentino-Alto Adige so far. It should be pointed out that measure 111, which has been fully implemented in the draft law under consideration, provides for compliance with the proportion of Members representing the different language groups, and not to decide on the total number of Members representing the Province of Bolzano compared to representatives from other Italian regions. In addition, measure 111 was granted only with reference to the Senate. In relation to the House, the electoral laws that have followed in the history of the Republic have never introduced any derogation measures for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol with the only exception of the law of 3 November 2017, n. 165, which constituted in that Region six single-member colleges in front of 11 total seats. In that Region, that is, the share of single seats is about 55 percent of the total, while in the rest of the Italian districts it is 36.5 percent. In the rewriting of the electoral law, the peculiarity introduced in 2017 is maintained. And so if the seats of the Chamber became 400, those for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol would become seven, of which four would be unnamed. In this way the total number of seats would fall by about a third. The same applies to the number of single-member colleges, which would be reduced by a third, as well as those of the proportional part. However, the 55 per cent share of seats allocated in uni-named colleges exceptionally recognised in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol by the 2017 law would remain unchanged (four out of seven). In the absence, therefore, of a protection comparable to that guaranteed for the Senate by measure 111, the proposed intervention in the Chamber is the only one that appears neutral, as is required by the approach of this bill. It is right, moreover, that a special discipline is guaranteed for the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, because of the peculiar constitutional configuration of the same, articulated on two autonomous Provinces and it has therefore seemed correct to foresee - in the constitutional revision of the composition of the Senate - that the minimum of three senators provided for the other Regions is guaranteed, in the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, to the two autonomous Provinces. This amendment is also the result of the assessment of the positions expressed in Parliament by representatives of linguistic minorities. The solution adopted in fact provides that, if the seats assigned to the Region are six, the colleges already identified today by law no. 422 of 1991. If the seats assigned to the Region under Article 57 of the Constitution are more than six, the law will remain applicable. It is, however, a completely abstract hypothesis because, according to the solution adopted in the text of constitutional reform (Senate Act 214), six seats will be assigned to Trentino-Alto Adige, three to each of the two autonomous provinces. For the reasons set out above, however, a derogation can not be accepted concerning the seats of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u17	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u18	Mr President, I do not intend to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u19	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u22	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, on the basis of Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I propose that we do not move to the Rules of Procedure, and I do so by leaving to the documents, with your courtesy, a text where we fully justify our request. However, I would like to say briefly that we do not think that we should proceed with the examination of the measure and the provisions for the formation of electoral laws, because of certain elements. A fundamental one: it is explicitly written in the objectives of the law that it actually makes the provisions of electoral laws neutral with respect to the number of parliamentarians established in the Constitution, even if they are changed by constitutional reforms, that is, those in place exactly at this time, Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution. It is as if it were said: regardless of the number of MPs, the electoral law has its own application. We believe that the assumption that there is a neutral electoral law with respect to the way in which the two Chambers are constituted is to be rejected because it is quite clear that the number of parliamentarians has a strong impact on the representativeness of the Chambers with respect to the territories, on the recognizability of candidates by voters - this is one of the issues most discussed by the Constitutional Court even when it made unconstitutional a large part of the Porcellum - and on the protection of Parliament, of parliamentary prerogatives, also in relation to the prerogatives of the Government. For all these reasons - not least the fact that it seems quite evident that this system with the new numbers (400 MPs and 200 senators) provided for in the Constitutional law can produce effects of major curvature so much so that in some regions for the Senate we would risk to find ourselves represented simply the electoral lists that have abundantly exceeded 10% - we believe that we should not proceed with the examination of the articles, also because there is nothing more serious than another eventual and supplanted unconstitutionality, which would lead Parliament still in the situation in which it found itself after in 2014 the Court made the Porcellum unconstitutional, that is the electoral law with which it was elected and legitimized the Parliament itself. I think that, in order to respect the prerogatives of the Italian Parliament, all of us must avoid putting to the constitutional judgment once again a law that risks not passing this scrutiny and inevitably creating discredit for our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u25	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I can only refer to the arguments just put forward by my colleague in the Democratic Party who, for once, I find absolutely appropriate to the needs of Parliament and, in particular, the Senate. I do this not only for the reasons he has set out and which I consider to be right, but also for a motivation of basic logic: we do not build a system starting from a future and uncertain hypothesis. The future and uncertain hypothesis is the constitutional change that has just taken the first step; there is still a long way to go. It is not said that this path takes place in the direction now imagined by the majority because the time of a constitutional reform process is not always shorter than the life of a government. Sometimes, it is longer and it may happen that, when we arrive at the next readings, this Government is no longer there and, in that case, the presuppositions of today's law would perhaps be completely less. I do not imagine a different numerical composition than that envisaged today by the constitutional reform, but on the contrary I would like to be able to keep alive the hope that a constitutional reform will not only change the number of Members to be fed to the voters in exchange for the reforms that you are unable to do. A constitutional reform, in addition to redefining the number of parliamentarians, could have at heart the will of the vast majority of Italians to be able to elect a smaller number of parliamentarians, but also directly the Head of State. That's the point. You are doing a reform of a future reform that is uncertain, and you are not, in advance, allowing constitutional reform to completely change the perspective of our new institutions in the course of the process. If this were to happen, it would make this legendary flexibility completely inadequate, because it is quite clear that a direct election of the Head of Government and of the State, which we wanted, would lead to a double-round electoral system, as has been suggested on several occasions from the left, which would be linked to a broader constitutional reform. You see, you don't start a reform - I said it also about another story and so you can see that you have taken taste and habit - you don't start building a house I don't say from the roof, but from the furniture. You're starting with the nightstands, starting with the chandeliers, missing the roof, missing the foundations, missing the walls. Making a law that talks about the nightstands of a house without first building it is not only wrong, but also an act of pride that we will vote against. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the proposal not to move to the articles, because as we have tried to motivate, even in the general debate, this proposal for a law of further amendment - and mess - on the electoral law presents aspects that almost certainly, if we go forward, will be the subject of examination by the Constitutional Court. The reason for this is very simple: the rapporteur has just counter-replicated that this law only serves to avoid a hole, a vacatio in case one should go to elections. I, however, submit here another reasoning, what I stubbornly propose to you for months. We have just finished the first reading of the constitutional reform bill for the reduction of the number of Members for a few days, and it is quite clear that if you really wanted to put in place an electoral law appropriate to the reduction of the number of Members, there would have been plenty of time to do so, because we will still have many months, because the adoption of the law for the reduction of the number of Members will not be very fast, it will take time and then we will have to see if it will come to an end. There was therefore the possibility - still the so-called Rosatellum - of putting in place a different electoral bill, with a different system, because with the reduction of the number of parliamentarians it is inevitable that a different electoral system should be put in place. I say this all the more because you have challenged, like me, the Rosatellum and you are absolutely aware of the fact that I am in the process of appealing to the Constitutional Court with regard to Rosatellum-a. It was therefore absolutely necessary - and this, yes, would have been prudent and serious from the legislator's point of view - to try to discuss with everyone and in time, in order to arrive at an electoral system capable of adapting to the reduction in the number of Members. The adaptation, however, cannot happen simply with the play of the mathematical formula. But so much you now change your mind on all the topics! So what do I tell you to do that you had supported the unconstitutionality of the Rosatellum, because there is no longer a relationship between the voter's vote and the effect it produces? This is because the mixed system creates some problems with regard to the mechanism of representativeness. What are you doing? With the mathematical formula, adapted to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians an electoral system that already had a lot of problems: from the point of view of proportionality, the recognizability of the vote and the effect of the vote, because you know perfectly well that the voter, when he votes, must know the effect that his vote produces; it is one of the constitutional principles that the Court always reminds us. The Rosatellum already did not produce this because, with the flipper effect and how it was organized, it was not clear whether, for example, by voting Cucca I would really elect Cucca or if I would do it to elect Zanda. I've explained this to you countless times. With this system and the game of the mathematical formula of reduction, which seems to you all automatic, all the faults of the system are enlarged. Therefore, we will find ourselves with a further majority torsion, but to a great extent, because we will have single-name colleges that no longer have anything of the citizen's ability to have a relationship with the one who elects or thinks he wants to elect. The twist from the point of view of representativeness is enormous, because in this way you create a system that puts an end to a mechanism of pluralism of representation. I repeat, there is a majority torsion that prevents a direct relationship between voters and elected; at the same time, you realize an even greater torsion than the basic electoral system already has. All this with the excuse that we had to be ready. But now you've solved the problems. Moreover, the process of constitutional reform to reduce the number of Members of Parliament allowed a system to be put in place that was appropriate and did not distort the system. Instead, you rushed to consecrate the Rosatellum, when you know perfectly well - because all the electoral laws have been observed by the Constitutional Court - that not only the Rosatellum bis will be observed (therefore the mother electoral law), but also this system, because it produces distortions, from the point of view of representativeness and the relationship between the electoral and the elected, which are absolutely not compatible with a democratic system. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u29	Pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal not to move to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Ferrari. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u30	Mr President, the amendments to Article 1, as I have just tried to explain, are rather complicated attempts also on the technical side, because we are working on a subject that already had many problems in itself. All the amendments we have tabled in Article 1 have the same purpose, which is to increase the rate of proportionality. This is for a very simple reason, which I have just reminded you of, namely that the twisting of representation, which you have achieved with this simple formula of the three octaves, means that there is a democratically unsustainable reduction in the representativeness of Parliament. In fact, there is a problem not only of representation of the smaller forces, but also of representativeness of Parliament itself. Moreover, with the approval of the replacement of the fixed number of seats by a fractional relationship according to the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, a disproportionate increase in the size of the electoral colleges is produced. You know perfectly well that already today with the system with which we voted in March there were electoral colleges in which it was absolutely impossible for the elector to understand who the candidates were actually in the field and therefore to have the possibility to choose; not to mention then the proportional part of the plurinomial, which had a so-called pinball mechanism that, with the application of the fractionary formula, determines an increase to disproportionately severing the relationship between the vote expressed by an elector and where it settles, because this is absolutely impossible to predict. Therefore, the aim of the amendments is to reduce the problems that you create, to introduce a higher rate of proportionality into the system, because only proportionality allows us to withstand such a strong reduction in the number of Members. In this way, in fact, not by increasing or putting in place an electoral system of a considerable proportional level, make sure that all possibilities are eliminated, not by saying plural representation, but even by law of the gallery. I repeat again that you have chosen this electoral system. It is not true that this is only a way of not having the vacay between passages, because the process of reform of the reduction of parliamentarians is only at the beginning, so there was all the time also to finally respond to the various objections that, from the judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, have been advanced on all the gouges of electoral laws that have been born in recent years, from the Porcellum down. There was therefore every possibility of finally doing a serious job which really complied with all the constitutional principles that the Court has repeatedly pointed out to us. This is the aim of all the amendments tabled to Article 1. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u31	Mr President, we have only tabled deleterious amendments on this measure because we believe that no part of it is justifiable and sustainable. When we discussed the measure to reduce the number of Members we pointed out that it was an act driven by worrying intentions and a motive for building an illiberal democracy in Italy; we also pointed out that it was a messy measure. The impression we have had in examining this measure of applicability of electoral laws is that we are faced with an encore of the mess, namely that we want to complete the misdemeanor begun with the bill of reduction in the number of parliamentarians. This is for a very simple reason: the negative intentions which I have just mentioned, which refer to the whole of the plan of intervention on the Constitution, of the transformation of our institutions which the majority forces have in mind, seems to us in this case aggravated by too much squintness and superficiality and also by some disturbing unsettlingness. Let's note this. The war was waged when we passed the last electoral law - I am referring to the so-called Rosato law - calling it unconstitutional and attributing to it all the worst defects imaginable. Today it is proposed to this Senate to approve a measure that would have the effect of making the law that, in the past, has been defined as unconstitutional. I understand that above all the Movimento 5 Stars, in recent months and weeks, has specialized in doing the opposite of what he has always said, but - perhaps - we are going beyond the measure. However, we have not been reassured by the rapporteur's replies and this confirms the choice of tabling and supporting amendments which have only been deleted. We have received three arguments in support of this measure. As for the first, there would be a risk of a lack of electoral law because, at the same time, the constitutional reform of reducing the number of parliamentarians is being examined. But, for God's sake, the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament is a constitutional reform that must face four readings and, perhaps, a referendum. We have plenty of time to make a sensible contribution to the electoral law. There is no obligation to do so in such a messy and hasty manner. As a second argument, it has been said that in the past we have had electoral laws that applied regardless of the number of parliamentarians. That is true, but one cannot but say that those electoral laws - I am referring to those of the beginning of our Republic - were totally proportional and, therefore, completely indifferent to the number of Members. Here we are faced with a mixed system. A monster is created, with an electoral law with one-name colleges over a million inhabitants; something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. In this case, really haste and superficiality are an addict. Thirdly, the so-called Mattarellum was mentioned, saying that it provided for percentages. It is true that Mattarellum was the law that brought the results of a popular referendum into force, providing for three quarters of the majority and a quarter of the proportion. However, it was dropped in a context where no one had put on the agenda the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, otherwise the law would not have had that nature. Today we are doing something new, but in this case the new shows only that we continue to make mistakes so much after we have made a lot of mistakes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u32	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u33	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments tabled in Article 1, with the exception of amendment 1,100, on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u34	Mr President, the Government is going back to the House on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u35	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'a quarter'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.5 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The Presidency states that Amendment 1,100/1, tabled by Senator Augussori, whose text is being distributed, is unacceptable because it does not refer to the text of the rapporteur's amendment 1,100, but rather seeks to amend the text of the draft law. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,100 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u36	Mr President, the same reasoning and philosophy apply to Article 2, whereby the deletion amendment (2.1) and the others have the same characteristic: to try to make the system more proportional and to introduce a higher rate of proportionality. I see, among other things, that even those who hinder this bill - and this mess of adaptation of the electoral law - continue to persevere in their mistakes, of which we will now pay even more. However, I would like to point out, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, that, precisely because of the reasoning I have made and which led us to analyze it and to judge it negatively, this adaptation of the Rosatellum is strengthened even more, having expressed a very negative opinion of the Rosatellum bis and having fought it heavily, not only for the method of its approval, but for the contents itself. I would like to point out an additional amendment, on 2.0.1, which concerns the issue of minority representation, something which we have not by chance also tabled in the draft Constitutional Act on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament, because there is a very serious issue concerning the issue of pluralism of representation. Everything is questionable, but the Constitutional Court, even accepting the principle of governability and making explicit reference to it, states - not only in Judgment No. 1 of 2014 but also in other pronouncements, and repeatedly - that even the need for governability cannot bend another fundamental element for the electoral systems and the rate of democracy, namely representation and its pluralism (which reproduces immediately on the organ in terms of its representativeness). That is why we have proposed this amendment, which is to guarantee the representation of minorities: I realize that this is a provocation, in order to launch a challenge to coherence (a word that I know is now in vain). Amendment 2.0.2 concerns the prohibition of multi-candidate applications: do you realize that, by further increasing the rate of indeterminateness between the voter's vote and its result, with multi-candidates there is really no chance of making sure that there is a relationship between the voter's vote and his intention to vote? For this reason, at least eliminate multi-candidate applications because, through the further introduction of the fraction system that you propose with this bill, indeterminateness is such that multi-candidates become an element of further aggravation. The question of representation was already in itself very questionable from the constitutional point of view, as you know, in the current law; imagine now the multiple candidates in a system that has even more a majority twist, a twist of vagueness of the vote because - I repeat - the relationship between representative and represented is cut off, which becomes absolutely vague; when we vote we do not know what produces that vote. The vote of an electoral citizen must, for obvious reasons, have its own clear finalization, which, with this system, aggravated even by multiple candidates, frankly does not exist. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u37	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u38	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendments 2,100 and 2,11.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u39	The Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u40	Before proceeding to the votes, I greet on behalf of the Assembly the teachers and students of the Technical Institute of Industry (Faraday) in Ostia, the Institute of Higher Education (Fermi-Mattei) in Isernia and the High School (Brocchi) in Bassano del Grappa, in the province of Vicenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u41	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "a quarter". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.5 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101/1, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.101, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u44	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this draft law is intended to accompany the process of constitutional revision which began on 7 February. The majority proceed with the examination - which began on the very day of the adoption at first reading of the draft law amending Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitutional Charter - of the yellow-green bill, with the inclusion in the electoral legislation of the strictly necessary amendments - I quote the text of the report - to make the electoral legislation for the Chambers neutral, compared to the number of parliamentarians set out in the Constitution. This is a new downward agreement, approved without amendment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the day before, to avoid slippages due to the impossibility of planning reforms to meet the needs of the country, with the risk of opening a delicate chapter, such as that of the electoral law, on which to discuss or quarrel. The only form of opposition allowed, in the current political phase, is that within the majority, while the rights of opposition are not guaranteed, as would be expected from a democratic confrontation. It is a reform presented as a simplification or a reduction in the cost of politics, which in fact reduces political pluralism, the essence of democracy, as it expresses the different orientations of the electoral body. It is a situation that has left no room for discussion in the debate on the amendment of the Constitution which, in the face of the delicate issue of the crisis of representative democracy, has proposed inadequate solutions, preventing a constructive and democratic confrontation with the oppositions. This is a way of proceeding that sees us totally opposed to the proposal, for which we have tabled deleterious amendments and we will vote against, not for a political preliminary position, but for the fact that this proposal starts the disposal of democratic institutions, which is unacceptable to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the specific effects of this reform process, to the fundamental guarantees enshrined in the Constitution and, more specifically, to the effects that, in the absence of corrective measures, which we have responsibly proposed without success, will be for the Slovenian linguistic minority of the Region under the Special Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. This protection is a direct expression of the fundamental principles laid down in Articles 2, 3 and 6 of the Constitution. The particular territorial context, the obligations of international derivation, the recognition of the special autonomy for the Region and the affirmation of the principles of safeguarding the ethnic and cultural characteristics of citizens, enshrined in Article 3 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 31 January 1963, of the adoption of the Special Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, are the expression of constitutional principles, which have found a positive synthesis and discipline in Law No. 38 of 2001 and, more specifically, in Article 26, containing provisions on electoral matters. This guarantee has been repeated several times by the Governor of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Massimiliano Fedriga, both in the national and international field. We will vote against the measure as it is an instrumental draft law for the implementation of a reform contrary to the fundamental principles of the Constitution. The closure of the majority and the inability to dialogue have not allowed to discuss organic solutions, to redefine the balances of the Charter, but not even a comparison on those correctives, which would have avoided the effect of adversely affecting the constitutional balances, with reference precisely to the protection of the indigenous Slovenian national minority, which insists in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. It is a situation which, in fact, will prevent the rights provided for in the Constitution and the special implementing legislation from being enforced. All this, despite the fact that electoral legislation itself maintains certain special principles of protection which, however, with the new numerical proportions, will not be possible to make effective. Article 3 of the draft law confers on the Government the legislative delegation for the determination of single and plurinomial colleges, to be redefined in relation to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. For the principles and the guiding criteria, paragraph 2 proposes the principles of delegation provided for by law n. 165 of 2017, according to which - and I quote - in the areas where there are recognized linguistic minorities, the demarcation of colleges, also by way of derogation from the principles and guiding criteria referred to in this paragraph, must take into account the need to facilitate their inclusion in the least possible number of colleges and, more specifically, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia district one of the single colleges is constituted in such a way as to facilitate access to the representation of candidates who are the expression of the Slovenian linguistic minority, pursuant to Article 26 of law n. 38 of February 23, 2001. Unsustainable contradictions, when deciding on the future of the country in a dialectic based on slogans ranging from reducing the costs of politics, at the expense of the democratic quality of the institutions, to territorial autonomy, without protecting the unity of the Republic and the uniform protection of fundamental rights on the national territory. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to this way of proceeding which we find dangerous and superficial in relation to the values at stake. We are determined, should constitutional reform come into force, with a view to reducing the damage, to monitor the exercise of the delegation for the re-determination of colleges, in order to make maximum use of the derogating instruments to compensate for the negative effects of the reform due to the enlargement of the territorial base of colleges, aiming to ensure the correspondence of colleges with the territory in which the Slovenian linguistic minority is traditionally present. The reduction in the democratic quality of Parliament, which the majority of reforms are proposing for electoral needs by refusing a constructive confrontation with oppositions, is unacceptable and we will vote against it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u45	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u46	Mr President, on Article 3 which concerns the delegation of power for the determination of the colleges, as proposals to be discussed, Amendments 3.8 and 3.9 which relate in particular to the issue of Friuli-Venezia Giulia - to which Mrs Rojc referred - and the problem of the representation of candidates as an expression of the Slovenian linguistic minority. Amendment 3.9 impacts directly on the issue of linguistic minorities. We also discussed this during the examination of the draft constitutional law on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament and this is a very serious issue which has remained absolutely open. When I was talking about the compression of minorities with regard to political minorities, of course and indirectly I could not ignore the other impact, which in the case of the Slovenian minority is very strong, on linguistic minorities. No answers have been received from the rapporteur either on the draft Constitutional Law or on the draft law before us, but this will also be the subject - as I have already announced - of an appeal to the Constitutional Court, which we are already studying, because from this point of view there is a clear inconstitutionality. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u47	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u48	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 3,100 and against the rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u49	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u50	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "not more than" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.4 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "not more than" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.6 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u53	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, after the first reading of the draft constitutional law on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, in which the new Article 57 of the Constitution has granted the Autonomous Provinces a minimum number of three senators for each of them, equalizing them in fact and in law to the 19 regions existing in Italy, this draft law confirms the three single colleges for each Province, as provided for in Law No 422 of 1991, implementing measure 111 of the so-called package, an essential point of the declaration of closure of the international dispute with Austria in 1992. The reference to this rule, which had been deleted in the initial text of the measure, was then re-inserted with an amendment by the rapporteur, whom I thank, with the addition of a flexible mechanism for adjusting single-member colleges in the case of a minimum number of more than three senators to each Province. It is clear to us that even in this case, it is unlikely that, given the number of the population of each province according to the last census, consent will be sought with the representatives of the linguistic groups involved in the delimitation of the single colleges. We also hope for the Chamber of Deputies a discipline similar to that envisaged for the Senate, with three single colleges for each Autonomous Province, as this number guarantees, within the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, the correct representation of linguistic groups. With this in mind, the Group for the Autonomous States will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u56	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this draft law, because we consider it not only a messed up act but, indeed, also very serious - I say this quite frankly - for the reasons I have set out in my various speeches. First question: the reasons you have put forward to justify this rushing approach do not hold up either from the point of view of time or from the point of view of architecture with which to move forward. The question of the need to prevent a problem of electoral law that is not applicable has no temporal basis, because we have just concluded the first reading of the draft constitutional law on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and need four; then, as you know perfectly well, there will be the referendum, which will not take place on the Rousseau platform, but will normally take place. Time is fast, everything in politics is consumed quickly. Even when the first reading of the Constitutional Reform Renzi-Boschi began, no one was willing to bet on a defeat in the referendum, no opinionist, no pollist: it was difficult. Go read the newspapers of that time and look what all the experts said: there was not one who bet on the fact that that constitutional reform could be stopped and rejected by the voters. Then things, as you know, went differently. 10.50 a.m. (De PETRIS followed). Why do I reason? To say that there is time and that time, even taking good account of the reasons you have given for the efficiency of the system by reducing the number of Members, gives us every opportunity to seriously consider how to find an electoral law appropriate to that reduction, fruit not only of your majority agreements, but of a wider debate in Parliament and therefore with the involvement of all forces in the field. Why did you fall? I see that the members of the SVP, who are happy, are now distracting the rapporteur. I said, why did you rush to do this obnoxious law? A little 'because, obviously, you always have the problem of being able to compact you and, since the League is very expert in electoral systems, in the person of Senator Calderoli, has put his in this operation. But also because all the acts you are producing actually have a fairly clear political purpose, which is not to seriously address the issue of the crisis of representative democracy, but simply to weaken it at its root. That's the point. Perhaps you could also table an amendment to get everyone to adopt the Rousseau platform. The Rosatellum was already an unconstitutional law; we did our battle to the end and we will continue to do it, because there was a twist of the representativeness and a distortion of the vote of the voter, which already produced a very serious problem in the active electorate. You, with this system, in changing the relationship between colleges and seats, with the mechanism of the three octaves, produce a reduction in the degree of representativeness of the parliamentary organ, which is perhaps what you want, intervening at the roots, precisely to weaken the system of representative democracy. You also produce another problem in the active electorate, because the vote it can give will be indeterminate, and in the passive electorate, because there is a very strong reduction in representation and this is a very serious aspect in democracy. I also address my colleagues in the Democratic Party who voted against all the amendments that tried to introduce a rate of proportionality: you have not yet learned the lesson and I am very sorry about that. [[Recalls of the President]] In conclusion, president. Senator De Petris, an error occurred. You still have four minutes. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Thank you, President. The vote and the contrary opinion on the prohibition of multi-candidates have been very serious and significant, because what produces the twist that is introduced, accentuating the faults of the Rosatellum to an extent? I have already talked about the damage it causes to the electorate's ability, so on the active electorate's side to have a serious impact on the outcome of the elections, i.e. on the ex ante elective efficiency. At the same time there is a drastic decrease in the pluralism of representation and, then, the failure to eliminate the multi-candidate, elimination that we had proposed and that could also be a way for you to make the change less serious. There are therefore three situations: the enlargement of the size of the colleges, a very serious problem on the efficiency of the active electorate and the ability to influence the outcome of the vote, the drastic decrease - of which President La Russa has well understood the scope - of the pluralism of representation and therefore of the representativeness of the body. Who will benefit from this? There will be further expansion, to an extent, of the power of the secretariats of political leaders: this is what will be produced. For all these reasons, I believe that this electoral system will also have many constitutional problems and we will take responsibility for trying to bring it before the Constitutional Court. With regard to linguistic minorities, made the agreement with the SVP, the rest of the linguistic minorities in the country you are not interested in at all, while the problem of the Slovenian minority is very serious. You have converted to the Rosatellum; with the conversions you are knowing, not in a religious sense but by introducing a 360 degree modification of your principles, you have fully married not only the Rosatellum-a, but even a worsening of it, because although it was very difficult to worsen the Rosatellum-a, with the bill under consideration you are succeeding in full. For these reasons, we will vote against the measure, as we have proudly voted against and opposed the Rosatellum bis, because even if we have not remained in so many, for us consistency is a fundamental fact, especially in our relationship with our voters. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u57	Senator De Petris, I apologize for begging for an incorrect timer setting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u60	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, for me and for those who were present in the last parliamentary term, there are many enthusiastic speeches and various in-depth discussions, both politically and technically, and on the subject of the electoral laws that we adopted in the last parliamentary term, from Italicum to Rosato law. It is clear to everyone, in fact, the connection between the electoral law and the reforms of the Constitution approved by Parliament and then rejected by the referendum. The electoral law is the most political law that Parliament can adopt, and that is why it has always been a decisive hub of debate and political confrontation. The way in which the country is represented in these classrooms depends on the electoral law, this formula that transforms the vote of millions of Italians into a small number of representatives, who reproduce in the House and Senate the characteristics of consent, the weight of the territories and their peculiarities. Well, today we are here, in the most total disinterest of commentators and journalists - there is no one - but also of politics, to vote - I say vote because discussing does not seem to me to be a verb to use in this situation: discussing is a big word - an electoral law that I do not hesitate to define a reproach. After a legislature of reforms, which has seen the connection between Parliament's reforms and electoral law, there comes a legislature in which we do not even discuss it, after a constitutional law has been passed that significantly reduces the number of parliamentarians and that unequivocally puts the issue of the relationship with the electoral law. I am a person who cultivates doubt and, therefore, I reflect on this new way of thinking that has invaded these parliamentary classrooms. It seems to me like a fencing meeting: League and Movimento 5 Stars sink the most spectacular stocking, that is the reduction of the number of parliamentarians: but after each stocking you have to cover the blow in defense, because it remains an exposed side. It is clear that to reduce the number of Members and not to deal with the issue of electoral law is an example of total incompetence and ignorance. So we must also approve the electoral law. The reduction of parliamentarians - 'all right' in this case is a catch-up - is good, but what electoral law would elect these 400 plus 200 parliamentarians? On this point, neither does the government contract come to the rescue and there is no need for a lawyer, President of the Council. You must have thought, how do we get out of this? Shall we consult on Rousseau? But do we really want to discuss with each other what electoral law is paired with such a reform of Parliament? From this point of view you have been quite specific: you would not get out of this debate. Here comes the idea of neutralizing the electoral law and freezing the issue. It seems like a hibernation: let us hibernate the electoral law and perhaps, in the future, something will happen that will allow us to find a solution, but in the meantime no one can accuse us of not having considered the issue of electoral law. Better to hibernate the electoral law, then who knows, in a few years there will be a platform Rousseau 4.0 or 5.0, that is able, better than today, to formulate a question and to give also the answer, but perhaps the answers can give also the platform Rousseau 1.0 and there is no need to wait. Even a consultation on Rousseau would not be able to return an electoral law. Informing, building an opinion, voting according to the mantra of direct democracy is not possible. It is perhaps a slip from the rapporteur's point of view, when he says in reply: We will deal with it later in another place. It does not say "at another time" but "at another place" and therefore not in Parliament. This drift of irresponsible politics, which I have had the opportunity to stigmatize in this House during the debate on the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament and which has as its highest example the referendum on Brexit, is taking place in the eyes of the League. You hear Senator Calderoli confronting and upholding this law. Senator Calderoli, I address the Presidency to submit this reflection: you who have been so lucid and honest intellectually that you coined a famous epitaph concerning your electoral law, which also holds the primacy of having been disassembled, for the first time, by the Constitutional Court, today is witnessing this devastation. I am convinced that you have the same feelings today that faced with the vision of the battleship Potemkin had the character of Paolo Villaggio. But I expect a new epitaph of him, in front of one-year-old colleges, disproportionate multi-candidates, implicit anti-democratic thresholds, obvious imbalances between non-equipolent regions, also in relation to constitutional principles such as the protection of linguistic minorities. I'd say that's enough for today. We in the Democratic Party are opposed to this bill, which for us is wrong and inadequate, all the more so if seen together with the reduction in the number of parliamentarians: an overall anti-parliamentary design, with an anti-political hidden behind the veil of direct democracy of the thought of Casalegio. In the face of this situation, the sense of any role of the opposition to improve measures is also lost - I say: it is frustrated. In this situation, hearing the Government returning to this House really makes you smile. The vote of the Democratic Party Group will be against. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u63	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text that we are about to vote on, and which will of course see the support of our Group, is intended to correct the Rosatellum, an electoral law written quickly and badly. The partial amendment that we approve today does not mean that we share the rest of the system: the precise one so that it remains in the proceedings. In fact, we intervene only on that anomaly of the current law that sees indicated with whole numbers the quantities of seats that must be assigned by the method of single and plurinomial colleges. We now proceed to replace these parameters with fractional ratios (three octaves) along the lines of what, then as a percentage of 75-25 percent, provided for the Mattarellum. However, this is just one of the many flaws of the Rosatellum, we just have to think, for example - I think the Members of the European Parliament will agree with me for elections - of the large number of no votes registered because of electors who have fallen into error because of clumsy voting rules. The measure to our attention will always make the electoral law usable regardless of the number of Members to be elected and this leads to greater protection of the work and powers of this Parliament and, not secondary, of the prerogatives of the President of the Republic. On the one hand, given the political will shared by most of the groups in this House and already expressed with the vote, in the first passage in the House of the constitutional law of a few days ago, Parliament is free to cut the number of Members without the sword of Damocles to find itself with an unenforceable electoral law. On the other hand, the Head of State sees his power to dissolve the Chambers at any time saved and guaranteed, because a functioning electoral law will always be in force. The text's extenders, the rapporteur and the offices that have carried out all the statistical simulations must be acknowledged and deserved, which has been done very well because, in the Constitution unchanged, the new algorithms lead to an identical distribution of the electoral colleges with respect to the original text. If, as we hope, the reduction to 400 Members and 200 senators were to take place, the new text would guarantee the exact proportion in each constituency. To respond to the timid criticism of the measure, first of all that it is inadequate in terms of representation and representativeness of the electoral law when electing a Parliament with reduced ranks, we want to reassure ourselves that we do not open up the issue of a new electoral law. Indeed, as is well known, the League was not a passionate supporter of the Rosatellum. We are already ready to consider an alternative, but this can only be done in due course, i.e. with approved constitutional reform. What we now approve is not our electoral law, but only a useful adaptation of the one in force. With reference to the size of the Senate's one-name colleges in the event of a reduction to 200 senators, I would like to point out that the vast majority of them will settle on a figure of 800,000 voters, which is nothing but the exact proportion I referred to earlier than the current colleges of about 500,000 inhabitants. The case-law of colleges with more than one million inhabitants will be the rare exception and not the rule, as someone wants to make believe; I am surprised that that someone is the same political part that, with the constitutional reform Renzi-Boschi, sonociously rejected by the Italians, had proposed that the regional councils indicate: a single senator for 1,2 million inhabitants of Friuli, a single senator for 1,3 million inhabitants of Abruzzo, a single senator for 1,5 million inhabitants of the Marche, a single senator for 1,5 million inhabitants of Liguria. But are we sure that the size of the single college affects the level of representativeness of an elected one? Some European countries have been taken as a means of comparison, but I have not heard from anyone a comparison with what is the greatest democracy in the world, the United States of America, where we find the most famous Senate in the world. For over a hundred years an electoral system has been in place in the United States, with unnamed colleges ranging from half a million to 40 million inhabitants, without this ever giving rise to problems. Can we say that the citizens of the State of New York did not recognize Hillary Clinton as their senator? Or Massachusetts, Ted Kennedy as their representative? McCain for Arizona? Ruby for Florida or Cruz for Texas? Finally, we welcome the positive identification of a solution to the Trentino and South Tyrolean question which, thanks to the combined arrangement of the two measures, clears the field from all possible doubts about the reopening of historic disputes with Austria. We can thus reassure our PD colleagues that, at least this time, Vienna will not declare war on us. I close with a mention of the last article which confers the delegation to the Government for the determination of the colleges, linking it with double thread with the approval of the constitutional reform and with a precise deadline within which this must take place. Demonstration of our willingness to proceed concretely, and not by virtue of sterile propaganda (as you say), to a real and substantial cut in the number of parliamentarians. And I'd add "finally"! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u66	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already done in the Commission, we shall vote against this bill for several reasons. First of all, an electoral law like this changes the nature of the vote, because the proportion is not everything: one thing is a proportional part, for example, of the Region by Region vote, where the elected are about fifteen; another thing is a proportional part where the elected are one, two or three. It is no longer a proportional system, of course. If there is only one seat that is assigned with the proportional criterion, it actually becomes a majoritarian; it changes nature. It's not neutral to change numbers. If it were to change the numbers from 900 to 800, it is clear that the numbers would always be large enough, so it would not change nature particularly. For example, in the current Constitution the minimum provides seven senators for each Region (with the exception of Molise and Valle d'Aosta), while with the new law you go down to three, and of these one part are single-member colleges: it is evident that nature changes very much. On the one hand there are one-name colleges, but in some cases they coincide with the entire Region: therefore, it is another thing. It can also be right, it can also be done. The colleague of the League that preceded me spoke of the United States; of course, in that country there are proportions of this kind, but there is a small detail, that is that I am a federal state that has 50 parliaments, 49 of which are bicameral: we cannot take a number that concerns a federal order composed of 50 states plus the district of Capital and then relate it to Italy. The United States has an electoral law completely different from ours, it is certainly a noble and settled electoral system, but we cannot compare it with ours. We would have single-member colleges that should be the ones that determine territorial representation, that is, rooting, contact with voters, which, however, become immense, without having the means that our American colleagues have to maintain contacts, which for their offices have dozens of times more than ours. I do not know how to maintain direct contacts in colleges of millions of inhabitants and with hundreds of municipalities. We would then have a so-called proportional part, which, however, as I said, is no longer so: when numbers are so low what proportion is there? If there is a seat, where is proportionality? Therefore, it changes the nature of the law and when dealing with a new electoral law, as we have heard many times also from the strictly governmental majority that is approving this bill when it was in opposition, it is necessary to involve minorities. We have said this both when we were in the majority and when we were in the opposition. Some people, however, now that they are in the majority, forget this element. As for territorial rooting, we understand the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars for which the territorial rooting consists in voting as the mysterious platform Rousseau decides. I must say that never again was the name more right in the owner of something so important, that it basically controls the entire party of the Movimento 5 Stars, to the well-known pedagogue who explained to the world how to educate the children and his parents sent them to the orphanage, to the well-known thinker of the state structure who thought that each had to adapt to the general will. The problem, as we have seen in all the dictatorships that, more or less consciously inspired by Rousseau, have been implemented later, is to determine who determines the general will [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Thus was born the dictatorship of the proletariat, where the head of the communist party said to represent the proletariat and therefore to have the right to be dictator; another thought to represent the race, another the nation, another a certain class, for which we had this application. I am more surprised by the colleagues of the League, who have always made one of the qualifying points of their line, their way of dealing with voters, which is still different from the political line. We then have another problem, with this change of nature, which mainly concerns the Senate for obvious issues, not just numbers, because the Senate remains with half the seats of the House. The reduction of seats is done exclusively to write tweets and posts on Facebook and receive likes and, therefore, you have to have round numbers for Chamber and Senate. However, one thing is 400 Members, another thing 200 senators. The numbers are smaller. Moreover, while the regional base for the Senate remains unchanged, the proportional effect is not like in the House, where from 600 you go down to 400 MPs. For the House, however, the proportional aspect is maintained at national level, in the sense that a vote given even in a small Region may not be able to determine the attribution of the seat to one of the parties that are not among the largest of the Region itself, but can determine a seat in another Region. On the other hand, in the Senate, where there is the regional base, as established by the Constitution, this no longer occurs, with the consequence that, although one system or the other can work well, the two systems together will lead to a unevenness between the House and the Senate, which is one of the problems that emerged in the various debates on electoral laws. The current electoral law - the so-called Rosatellum - has also been adopted because the electoral law that was in force, determined by judgments of the Constitutional Court and not by a work done in Parliament, created a very wide disparity between the House and the Senate, with the great danger of uneven majorities. Then there are other technical problems, on which, since the opposition was not involved, it was not possible to express itself, but which will emerge in practice and on which I do not want to speak now. We voted in favour of reducing the number of parliamentarians, although we believe that this could also be done in a more sensible and modulated way, I say no less than the numbers, even if they make us the country with the least relationship between parliamentarians and people across Europe, creating a greater separation between the elected and the electorate. I detach that maybe it is just what someone wants, so that there are only the owners or managers of the big media (both traditional ones, and those so-called modern ones, i.e. social media). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not believe, however, that we can accept an electoral law imposed for reasons of like and numbers on social media, without a real involvement of the opposition and with technically problematic results and such as to create unevenness between Chamber and Senate. We believe that Parliament must first work to represent the citizens and act as an appropriate counterweight and control against the Government. This is the function of the Senate in all democracies and we maintain and continue to defend democracy in Italy and abroad. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u67	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Aurelio Saliceti" in Bellante, in the province of Teramo, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u68	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this draft law, because it represents a change in the criteria for the allocation of seats. This is simply a technical change, which eliminates the reference to an absolute number of colleges introduced in 2017 and serves to make the electoral law flexible, i.e. independent of the number of senators and deputies indicated in the Constitution. It is therefore clearly an ancillary amendment to the one whose examination we know is being carried out in this Parliament. I know that some people criticize the minimalist approach we have taken to this law: You should have changed the electoral law as well, they tell us; yes, perhaps it is true, but it is also true that, as is often said, the excellent enemy of the best, so to start a reform of the electoral law in order to achieve a more important result, such as the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, would probably have meant that no objective was achieved. The minimalist approach to electoral law, therefore, must not be understood as a ratification of the existing one: it is an adaptation to achieve a much more important constitutional result as soon as possible. Since we are faced with a change of technical value and of limited political value, it is true that speaking of electoral law there is a banquet of stone, that is to say our Constitution, which remains silent in this limited debate, with respect to the issue that we are facing. In order to make sense of our legislative intervention, I would like to draw attention to the constitutional framework which the Movimento 5 Stars aims at and, in order to give an organic reading of the law reducing the number of parliamentarians, I would like to start from some writings, which date back to the beginning of the 20th century. In his "History of Democracy in Europe" he is an author dear to me, but forgotten, and one of the greatest scholars in the history of European democracy, Salvo Mastelone, recalls Hans Kelsen's writings. Kelsen can rightly be regarded as the father of the modern Constitutions, a liberal and democratic jurist, but - it is important to stress this - while defending parliamentary democracy, criticism because sometimes, in order to defend an institution, you have to have the courage to identify its limits and criticalities. In the 1920s, where in Europe the winds of totalitarianism sighed, Kelsen wrote: The ideal of democracy pales and on the bleak horizon of our era a new star is born to which with so much more confidence it turns to the hopes of the masses as cruelly shines its splendour: the dictatorship. These are the words with which he stigmatizes and signals the characteristic figure of his essay. Well, Kelsen launches himself into a passionate defense of democracy: anti-fascist, anti-Nazi, equally anti-Soviet, writes of democracy and in many of his works the analysis of the modern one and its foundations - attention, this is an important step - is based on the denunciation of the hiatus and the distance between ideal democracy and real democracy. In defending democracy, therefore, he criticizes the parliamentary one. At a time when it writes that democracy moves the order forward by majority voting, it is content with a simple approximation to the original idea of democracy. The principle of majority - writes Kelsen - is a powerful limitation to the democratic ideal. In other words, Kelsen stresses the difference between political representation - and even the fiction of political representation - and legal representation. This enables us to understand that democratic representativeness is measured not by the number of Members, but by other criteria: it is measured by the competence of the representatives, by the ability of the majority to dialogue with the minority. He reveals the fictitious character of parliamentary representation and its substantial lack of affinity - he said - with the democratic idea, and therefore firmly reaffirms the distance between ideal democracy and real democracy. Nevertheless - it is important - he defends parliamentary democracy as the least imperfect form of government. At the conclusion that parliamentary democracy is the best that can be achieved in terms of representativeness, Kelsen suggests corrective criteria, and among them there is direct democracy that he - attention! - it does not defend as the only solution - it is the criticism that moves the approach of the socialist countries, which at least theoretically claim this primacy - but it indicates how contemporaneous to the imperfections of parliamentary democracy. Kelsen basically comes to a moderate position, which is the integration between parliamentary democracy and direct democracy. Think that Kelsen, the father of all of us today, of modern states - I know that there are also extensive critical studies, but no study on the functioning of the State is without Kelsen - also addresses the issue of the imperative mandate, the issue of parliamentary immunity. This is to say how modern Kelsen's reflection is; how many problems, doubts and questions Kelsen poses, I would say in advance of his time. When, then, the Movement addresses these issues, it must not be believed that it faces them with the naivety of the child who stands up with notions greater than him. Great thinkers have traced the way. Kelsen reconnects, reconnects with Rousseau's thinking, and we proudly reconnect with Kelsen's thinking. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u70	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] I suspend the sitting which will resume at 4.30 p.m. at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 a.m. and resumed at 16.34 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u71	I communicate the determinations of the Conference of Leaders, which has adopted changes and additions to the current calendar. In relation to the work of the 11th Permanent Commission, the discussion of the Decree-Law on the Income of Citizenship and Pensions will begin on Monday 25 February at 10.30 a.m., when concluded by the Commission. With regard to this week's work, the House will not sit until the Premier Question Time on Thursday 21 at 3 p.m. Commissions are authorised to convene in relation to their work programmes, except from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. tomorrow at the request of a parliamentary group. Next week's calendar, with sessions from Monday 25 to Wednesday 27 February, also includes ratifications of the Faro conventions on cultural heritage and of the Council of Europe on the manipulation of sports competitions. In the week from 5 to 7 March, after the decree-law on the bank Carige, the motions already foreseen in the current calendar will be discussed. The other topics already included in the timetable of proceedings remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u72	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the proceedings of the Senate for the months of January and February 2019: - Drawing of law n. 773 - Ratification and execution of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the manipulation of sports competitions, done in Magglingen on 18 September 2014
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u73	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Thursday, 21 February h. 15 - Questions to the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, in immediate response]] [[Monday, February 25 h. 10,30 - Drawing of law n. 1018 - Decree-Law n. 4, Income of citizenship and pensions (final vote by February 27, 2019) (deceases March 29, 2019) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law n. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage - Drawing of Law No 773 - Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Manipulation of Sports Competitions Tuesday 26 " h. 9.30 Wednesday 27 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to bill No 773 (Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the handling of sports competitions) should be tabled by 8 p.m. on Thursday 21 February. [[Tuesday, March 5, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1063 - Decree-Law n. 1, Banca Carige (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (cancelled on March 9, 2019) - Motions on: - TAV Turin-Lyon; - Establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad; - Growing and marketing of hemp; - Establishment of a special commission on autism; - Measures to deal with cancer diseases - Possible follow-up to unconcluded topics - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7, 15) Wednesday 6 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 1063 (Decree-Law No 1, Banca Carige) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 28 February. The timetable remains integrated with the draft Law No 897 and related (Videosurveillance), where concluded by the competent Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1018 (Decree-Law No 4, Citizenship income and pensions) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 41' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1063 (Decree-Law No. 1, Banca Carige) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u76	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, the right to health is fundamental and essential. It is the basis of a rule of law, which is also protected by our Constitution. Having said that, after my premise that I hope it will be shared by everyone in this House, where the right of citizens must always be the main guideline, I would like to put to your attention an issue which concerns the city of Benevento, which has been raised to the honours of the news also because of the problem of water potability. In recent months, thanks to the solicitation of an environmental association of the territory, there has been talk on several occasions of a study of ARPAC, dating back to February 2018, which, after the due analysis carried out, reported the presence of tetrachloroethylene in some wells, and exactly those of Campo Mazzoni and Pezzapiana, while it would be absent in that coming from Biferno. The city, therefore, can be divided into two areas: an area where water is supplied anyway suitable, but with a higher concentration of both nitrates and tetrachloroethylene; another area, on the other hand, has better water, because it comes from the springs of Biferno. Moreover, considering that this conduct is not fully operational, often its water is mixed with that of the wells of Campo Mazzoni and Pezzapiana; this involves a slight change in the concentrations of pollutants. From here it is easy to understand that all citizens of Benevento are involved. The pollution of chlorinated compounds, better known as PC2, is due to the excessive use of disinfectant detergents, which release a large quantity of by-products harmful to health, such as perchloroethylene, i.e. PCE. In the city of Benevento these substances have been identified mainly in the railway area. What guarantees do we have that water is actually healthy for citizens who continue to use it? I believe that the Municipality should entrust the University of Sannio with the task of drawing up the characterisation plan of the areas and wells of Campo Mazzoni and Pezzapiana, requesting a special economic contribution to the Campania Region, which granted it days ago for a similar problem to the Solfra-Montoro area, for which it is planned to secure wells through plants with activated carbon filters. The characterisation plan provided for by Title V, Part IV, of the legislative decree of the environmental code is the first phase of an environmental characterisation that is identified in all the activities that allow to reconstruct contamination phenomena at the expense of the environmental matrix, in order to obtain the basic information in support of the achievable and sustainable decisions for a possible safety and definitive reclamation of the waters. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u79	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the serious events that took place in Ferrara between Saturday and Sunday, which have had a great deal of resonance in the media and in public opinion. On Saturday night a group of about 40 Nigerians, who now have a military control of a large area of the city of Ferrara, interrupted, with a real riot, the main road that leads from the railway station to the center of the city, staging acts of violence, overturning dumpsters in the middle of the road, carrying out actions of provocation and outrage against the Forces of the order intervened to bring back the public order. Now that area of the city is in the hands of organized crime (you can speak quietly of a mob criminal association); it is in the hands of gangs of non-EU countries, who sell out in the open, who annoy with fights and other illegal actions the population, who have brought into full degradation a neighborhood where thousands and thousands of citizens live. Just think that the values of real estate, houses and shops, in which thousands and thousands of families have invested all their savings, in recent years have collapsed by 60, 70 and even 80 percent and there is no one else who wants to buy house in that area, whatever the price at which the houses are put for sale. Well, I put an urgent question to the Minister of the Interior today, because it is necessary to intervene: those areas of illegality must end. The mayor of Ferrara, of course of the PD, in response said that such facts are to be put in relation to the security decree. We're really out of reality. We are faced with the supreme contempt of the ridicule of a local ruling class that has not understood the phenomenon that we are unfortunately forced to attend for too many years and that does not secure the city. I have asked that the Minister finally arrange for a massive dispatch of forces of order to deal with this situation; I have asked for a massive dispatch of a contingent of at least 50 soldiers to guard the area. The state has to answer. Those criminals, who have no right to be on the territory of the State, must be expelled and should not be allowed to think that this is a territory conquered militarily, in which the State no longer has the authority to enter. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-91.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 21 February at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.44 p.m.
