ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 6 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work today, I would like to address a heartfelt thought to the figure of Enrico Berlinguer on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of his disappearance. Secretary of the Communist Party from 1972 to 1984, deputy for five legislatures, Enrico Berlinguer was an authentic leader, loved and heard, undisputed protagonist of the political history of our Republic, proud defender of his ideals, inside and outside the classrooms of Parliament, and, at the same time, always open to dialogue and constructive and intelligent confrontation even with those who did not share positions and strategies. It is no coincidence that Berlinguer, a party man and not a partisan, was able to gather the esteem and respect of all, so much so as to mark in indelible way the successive political generations. The moral question that, since then, has always represented one of the most important aspects of Italian political life, was placed by him at the center of attention ahead and far-sightedly, in line with his vision of a competent ruling class, responsible and endowed with a strong ethical sense, so as to place it above any suspicion. A strong supporter of the democratic estate of the country and the institutions, Berlinguer was able to indicate an Italian alternative in the years of the Cold War and the opposition between East and West. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, when Enrico Berlinguer died in the newspapers thousands of articles appeared and thousands of great characters commented on it. I remember by heart what Mario Melloni, a publicist of Unity, wrote about him, commemorating him: "He was a political man. And that's little to you? I believe that this definition would have been very pleasing to Enrico Berlinguer, because he would certainly not have liked to be remembered with formal words or rhetorical expressions. Today I want to briefly remind him, trying to keep that measure that Berlinguer has had dear throughout his life and that is reflected in the very beautiful interview of his daughter Bianca, whom we read this morning. The first notation I want to make about him is political. We can say that in the first decades of the Republic, so relevant to the history of our country, Italy was guided, in the most important passages, first by De Gasperi and Togliatti and then by Moro and Berlinguer. First of all, we owe these four personalities the quality of our democracy, the depth of our social policies and the strength of the reconstruction of the post-war period. In particular, to Enrico Berlinguer, a man of the left, we owe a great deal, because it must not have been easy for the leader of a great western communist party, fully included in the international communist movement, to claim the autonomy of its own party, democracy and security in NATO. The second notation concerns the ethical profile of Enrico Berlinguer, and I am not talking about his morality, which we all know and which has always been very visible in every act of his life; I am thinking about the fact that we owe Berlinguer the fact that we have made that moral a great political issue. We have made many laws in Parliament against corruption and even the majority that today governs Italy wanted its decree-law, which is now law, to be called cheap sweeps. Well, none of these laws, including the scrambled, has ever had, in the sensibility of the Italians, the same political force and the direction of the moral question, so central to Berlinguer's thinking. I conclude with a third notation about Enrico Berlinguer as a person: I had the honour and also the luck of having met him personally; I met him in political circumstances, in the house of common friends, on the beach of Stintino. His private figure was no different from the public one: the same seriousness and humanity; the same attention to people on private and public occasions; great passion for politics and great love for sailing with his dear Latin sail. I would like, Mr President, to remind the Senate today of Enrico Berlinguer, both because of the depth of his political thinking and because of the great humanity of his smile. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u9	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too pay tribute to Enrico Berlinguer, one of the great leaders of an intense and dramatic period of republican life; an example of moral rigor, political commitment and love for the country and democratic institutions; a great Italian. A great deal has already been said and written about his life and work in these days, emphasizing the memory and regret that he has left even in citizens distant from the political area he represented. The motivations of this general may be many, but the White daughter summed them up: "Perhaps because my father was able to represent the hope of a change," he said, incarnating this project for much of our country. Leader of a Communist Party anchored to the working and popular classes and, in the post-war logic of the two blocs, still too bound to the Soviet communist system, Berlinguer nevertheless knew how to bring the PCI to remarkable successes. It was in fact brave his attempt to detach himself from the Communist bloc, which began in Moscow in 1977, with a memorable discourse on the universal value of democracy. The communist leader must be recognized the definitive western choice of the PCI cultivated in the dramatic phases of the Chilean coup of 1973 and the strategy of the massacre tension with the idea of that historical compromise that should have sanctioned the strategic alliance between the communist world and the Catholic world. In Berlinguer we must also recognize the merit of having placed in 1981 with great force and long before the devastating fury of the Tangentopolis fell on the credibility of our democratic system and of politics itself, the famous moral question. This issue is posed with unforgettable and unforgettable words in the face of the corruption and misconception that dominated the governing parties and beyond. Words that, to hear them, still now reveal a disconcerting topicality: today's parties, he said, are mainly machines of power and clientele, have occupied the State and all its institutions, starting with the Government. The fight against social inequalities and inequalities is the other characteristic feature of his work as political leader; inequalities that grew after his death, due to the increased polarization of wealth fed by the processes of globalization. With Berlinguer, therefore, remains the testimony of a tenacious commitment, a commitment that is still current, to be taken for example, even through the words he uttered at the last meeting of June 1984 in Padua. Berlinguer said: "We are convinced that the world, even this terrible, intrigued world of today, can be known, interpreted, transformed and put at the service of man, of his well-being, of his happiness." Here is also this vision, this commitment, this horizon of transformation, of democratic growth of the country that still today restore power of thought and dignity of politics, we today pay homage, associating ourselves in the memory of Enrico Berlinguer to his family and that of all Italians, of every part and political color. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u10	I greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale (Garbin Valdagno), Valdagno, in the province of Vicenza. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u13	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Free and Equal and I personally join in the words you have uttered, the mourning and remembrance of a great man, a great politician and a great statesman. It has been remembered the moral question that is certainly what is most topical today we can remember because it really is a problem of our country and it is also the work at the center of what must be political action. Let's not forget that he died on the field making a rally. He died while, struck by a stroke, he tried at all costs to continue to give his life for his passion, politics and workers, for which he had fought so hard. I like to remember one of his words, which I have always impressed and which I like to repeat to the young people: The first, essential, simple truth that must be reminded to all young people is that if politics does not make it to them, it will remain the prerogative of others, while it is them, the young people, who have a fundamental interest in building their own future and, above all, in ensuring that a future is there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u16	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, although it comes from a different political and democratic conception of our country, I had the honour of meeting Enrico Berlinguer. It was presented to me at a meeting with Ugo Spagnoli, at the time of terrorism and probably Senator Di Nicola made a mistake the year, because the real agreement between Christian Democracy and the Communist Party was in the years of terrorism. In those years, I was struck by his ability to reason coldly in moments that were of great tension in our country and at the moment when democracy in our country was in danger, even for the keeping of the rule of law. Those years were marked by an affair, which concerned not only Christian Democracy, but also the Communist Party, which Berlinguer had the cold mind to resolve, with the then leaders of Christian Democracy, and to ensure that in our country the fight against terrorism was carried out by law and by trials, unlike what happened in other countries. That's why I think we should all remember that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u19	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy I am happy to join in the memory of a great political figure, a great man and a great leader, as was certainly Enrico Berlinguer. Enrico Berlinguer, among the many merits, had the courage to deal decisively with the years of terrorism, the years of lead and to strongly oppose the strategy of opposing extremism, which left very young victims on the ground, who clashed in the name of ideologies of death and violence. He also had the courage to face those years by opening a dialogue and confrontation with another great Italian leader, Giorgio Almirante, and studied together how to stop that spiral of hatred and violence. This is a merit that I believe should be ascribed among the highest of the figure of Enrico Berlinguer, a merit that we on the right have always loyally recognized, until the day when he lost his life, dedicating his work to the good of the nation. Berlinguer was one of the few politicians who certainly looked to the interest of the political part that he represented, but always in the higher interests of the nation, what many politicians should learn today. And it was no coincidence that on the day of his funeral Giorgio Almirante, humbly, stood in line to pay homage to this great figure. Well, I believe that remembering these great Italians, these great political figures, today can certainly be a reference point for all of us who have at heart above all the good of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u22	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of my Group too, I would like to associate myself with the memory of a figure who has marked an era and I would like to do so in a spirit which I hope has not been lost or can be found, what sees, in the political debate, a place where, in any case, we can give space to respect and listening for the reasons of the opponent. I very much welcome your reference to the moral question. In making this call I know that his spirit - as I presume that of the late Enrico Berlinguer - was not that of appropriation, but of proposal of a theme. This must be a theme shared by all the forces present here, in a spirit of civil and equal confrontation. I also want to recall another theme that, in a particularly complex context such as what the country had to go through in the 1970s, Enrico Berlinguer poses, although we must be careful to avoid that lexical choices lend themselves to forced interpretations of the thought of others. I am referring to austerity, and therefore to rigour, budgetary policies. It would be very interesting to have today the testimony of Enrico Berlinguer in front of the steps that the country has to face and it would be very useful, I believe for everyone, to be able to benefit also from his evaluation regarding the experience that the country has lived in recent years along the road of restrictive fiscal policies. Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to recall a great Italian. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u23	The next item is: Informing the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on the possible launch of an excessive deficit procedure against Italy as well as on the results of the Ecofin of 17 May 2019 and on the Ecofin of 14 June 2019. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the request that this House also be informed of the state of the intercourse with the European institutions, on which I referred to the House a few hours ago. On 5 June, the European Commission published the documents of the so-called spring package. This package includes proposals for recommendations to Member States for policies to be followed in the next twelve to eighteen months; it includes a horizontal document addressed to all European institutions, including the European Parliament, which summarises the philosophy and common themes of the recommendations to the Member States and also includes reports on compliance with budgetary rules in the light of Article 126 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to which I will refer later with the term "Treatise". This year, these reports covered Belgium, France, Italy and Cyprus. In addition, reports on Greece (for enhanced post-support programme surveillance) and Hungary and Romania for significant deviations have been prepared. On 29 May, the Commission invited Italy to indicate the factors which led to the dynamics of public debt observed in 2018. Italy replied two days later, sending a document detailing the factors deemed relevant in order to assess compliance with the rules. The Commission, while taking into account the factors we have presented, published on 5 June the report, pursuant to Article 126 (3) of the Treaty, in which it concludes that the opening of an excessive deficit procedure is justified. In procedural terms, this is a matter for the Economic and Financial Committee of the Union (EFC), which met today. We expect the Committee, while approving the Commission's conclusions, to invite the Commission to continue negotiations with the Italian Government in order to reach an agreement. The final decision will in any case be referred back to the Council of the European Union. I would like to summarise here the Commission's assessments, the content of the letter I sent to the Commission, together with the so-called Document on Relevant Factors and the statement issued by the Government on 5 June. Finally, I will set out the essential lines of the approach we intend to follow in the dialogue with the Commission and the other Member States in the coming days. The Commission's initiative to review the Italian position regarding compliance with the debt rule, initiated by the letter of 29 May, is part of the normal surveillance procedures provided for in the Treaty and is not in contradiction with the agreement at the end of 2018 with the Italian Government. The excessive deficit procedure, as defined in Article 126 of the Treaty, requires the Commission to monitor compliance with budgetary discipline, verifying that there is an excess of deficit compared to the 3% threshold and an excess of public debt compared to the 60% reference value. During the spring of each year, the Commission shall assess compliance with the rules on the basis of preliminary conclusions. It should be recalled that the institutional interlocations, launched in the autumn of 2018, were motivated by the substantial revisions to the public finance objectives of the 2019 Draft Budget Document compared to those indicated in the DEF of April 2018, against which our draft budget was assessed at a serious risk of non-compliance with the Council's recommendations, in particular the one relating to the change in the structural budget balance. With the agreement reached on 18 December 2018, the growth forecasts and net debt targets were reduced, the path of structural deficit was revised and, according to government estimates, brought back within the recommended path. The structural deterioration expected in 2019 was reduced to only 0.2 percentage points. However, the negative change in the structural deficit in 2019 was to be considered totally zero, including the flexibility margins of 0.18 percentage points of GDP, required by our country for exceptional events. A structural improvement of 0.1 percentage points and 0.2 percentage points was estimated in 2020 and 2021, achieving a structural deficit target of 1% of GDP. The Commission concluded its assessment by stating that the full implementation of the measures outlined, including the VAT clause, would avoid the immediate recommendation for the opening of an excessive deficit procedure. I would remind you that this is not a clause, because the accounting rules do not allow for clauses in the budget law, but it is a law approved by Parliament and must therefore be amended by means of a subsequent law. The Commission's recent assessment focuses primarily on compliance with the debt rule for 2018. Based on the results published in April 2019, debt last year stood at 132.2% of GDP, compared with 131.4% in 2017. The Commission also pointed out that Italy did not achieve the objective of reducing the structural balance for 2018, by 0.3 percentage points of GDP, and is likely to deviate from the convergence path towards the medium-term objective in 2019. The Commission was essentially required to prepare a report, while verifying the existence of the following mitigating factors: excessive deficits due to public investment, and all relevant factors, including the medium-term economic and budgetary position of the Member State. In relation to the second point, the development of the budgetary structural balance and the achievement of numerical objectives compatible with the approach to the medium-term objective of balanced structural balance play an important role. In response to the above Commission letter of 29 May, the Government sent the relevant factors document. In the document, the Government sets out its position on the development of the debt deficit in 2018 and predicts the outlook for the current year and the next three years. With regard to 2018, although economic growth has surprised downwards, mainly due to external factors, the year ended with a significant reduction in the general government deficit, at 2.1 percent of GDP, falling from 2.4 percent in 2017. The primary balance had risen to 1.6% of GDP from 1.4% in the previous year. This shows that the Government has followed a prudent and responsible approach in the management of fiscal policy for 2018. As regards the structural balance, it remained stable compared to 2017 (1.4%). The failure to achieve the structural improvement of 0.3% of GDP was mainly linked to unforeseen factors. In the face of a slowdown in the economy, the correction of the nominal balance for the cyclical component has deteriorated rather than improved. In addition, there was an unexpected increase in some capital transfers and some temporary components were revised upwards. For 2019, the downward revision of growth forecasts increased the nominal deficit forecast to 2.4 percent. The structural deficit estimated in the Economic and Financial Document is expected to worsen by only 0.1 percentage points, thus increasing to -1.5 percent of GDP. Our comments also focused on the comparison between the forecasts contained in the DEF and those of the Commission. Especially for 2019, the main differences do not concern the macroeconomic and public finance framework, but the cyclical conditions of the Italian economy. For 2019, estimates by the Commission and the Government of the growth rate of GDP and deficit are broadly aligned. As regards structural public finance, the Commission estimates a deterioration of 0.2 percentage points and places the country's economy within a normal economic scenario, according to the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. A significant risk of deviation would therefore be envisaged for the Commission. On the other hand, the government estimates a deterioration in the structural balance of only 0.1 percentage points and places the economy in a situation of unfavourable economic situation, due to an output gap of -1.6% in 2019 and a growth rate of the economy below potential. The required adjustment would therefore be only 0.25 percentage points, which net of the flexibility margin would be reduced to about 0.07 percentage points, thus leading the Government to consider the above deviation not to be significant. For 2020, the main divergence factor concerns safeguard clauses: although there is a parliamentary resolution, which commits the Government to avoid the increase in indirect taxes, identifying alternative sources of cover, the Commission's forecasts incorporate an increase in the deficit equal to the full amount of the clauses. Finally, in addition to the considerations of a purely fiscal nature, among other important factors, the Government has recalled the elements of strength of the Italian economy, including the achieved balance of accounts abroad, a diversified production structure, a high level of private savings and having achieved significant improvements in the banking sector. In terms of policies undertaken, the Government reiterated the importance of measures taken to restart growth, acting both through increased investment and administrative measures, through simplification measures. Not least, in terms of importance, it has been recalled that the important measures to support incomes and inclusion met the social concerns expressed by the Commission itself. On 5 June, however, the Commission published its report on compliance with the budgetary rules, in the light of Article 126 of the Treaty, in which it notes that Italy did not achieve the objective of reducing the structural balance for 2018 by 0.3% of GDP, as I have just mentioned. Moreover, according to the Commission, Italy is likely to deviate from the convergence path towards the medium-term objective also in 2019 and the debt reduction profile planned for the period 2020-2022 by the Italian Government does not adhere to the rapid path provided for by the numerical rule of European tax discipline. In the Commission's view, the update of the macroeconomic and public finance framework, although the Italian Government's budgetary strategy is unchanged in December, does not ensure compliance with the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact, one of the mitigating factors considered by the Commission in its assessment of non-compliance with the debt rule for our country. The Commission therefore considers that the opening of an excessive deficit procedure is justified because of the non-compliance with the debt rule. The Commission's assessment, as has been said, has today been brought to the attention of the Economic and Financial Committee, which has given its opinion. The attitude that the Italian Government will take will be constructive: we will reaffirm our reasons to the other European countries, to whom it will be up to draw conclusions, and we will seek a reasonable meeting point. In response to the Commission's positions, the line of the Italian Government has already been mentioned in a statement by the Presidency of the Council: the Government has taken note of the outcome of the Commission's assessment and confirms its commitment to respect the dictates of the Stability and Growth Pact for the current year. With regard to 2018, there has been no relaxation of fiscal policy. The most up-to-date estimates for 2019 suggest that public finance balances will comply with the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. It can be considered that net debt in 2019 will be significantly lower than the Commission's forecast. The most recent monitoring of revenue shows, for the current year, greater tax and contribution revenue and higher non-tax revenue which, minus the increased expenditure and resources required for the adjustment budget, leads to an estimated net benefit of around 0.2 percentage points. Consequently, the deficit will be set at 2.2% of GDP, i.e. at a lower level than expected in April and according to what we have written in the Economic and Financial Document. Taking into account the Commission's economic forecasts and output gap estimates, a deficit of 2.2% of GDP would result in an improvement of 0.1 points in the structural balance in 2019. This result would therefore constitute a substantial respect for the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. The Government will be able to provide more up-to-date estimates at the end of July as soon as tax clearance data are available. To the estimates of net debt the possible effects of the lower use of the resources allocated for the new policies of welfare of the Government must be added: on the basis of the information available to date, the lower expenditure could be equal to an additional 0.07 percent of the GDP, attesting the net debt for 2019 to 2.1% of the GDP. In this case, the structural balance would improve to a corresponding extent, with an even greater compensatory effect than the gap recorded in 2018; this, I want to emphasize, without affecting the whole of welfare services and of course to legislation unchanged. I repeat that the Government is constantly monitoring the performance of the public accounts and is determined to pursue the fundamental objective of structural balance and to adopt all the precautions and initiatives to achieve this objective. For 2020, in the Economic and Finance Document, the Government has set a target for improving the structural budget balance of 0.2 percentage points; according to the latest official forecasts, the nominal deficit will fall by 0.3 percentage points compared to 2019. The DEF approved by Parliament shows a decline in net debt of up to 1.5% of GDP in 2022, with an overall improvement in the structural balance of almost 0.8 percentage points. The primary surplus would reach 3.1 percent on a structural basis in 2022. I recall what I said earlier, namely that Parliament has also committed the Government to looking for alternative measures to increase VAT and to fiscal reform, while respecting the public finance balances indicated in the DEF. In conclusion, the Government has already given the Commission and the other Member States considerable assurances about its economic and budgetary policy programmes. However, I believe that we should make ourselves available for a close and constructive dialogue with the Commission, in order to reach an agreement that would avoid the excessive deficit procedure. I would remind you that, according to the Community approach, our policies are a matter of common interest, as well as the policies of the other Member States concern us too. We are a founding country of the European Union, we have been one of the main promoters and founders of the single currency. While we are convinced that the European budgetary rules must be significantly improved, changed and simplified, it is in our interest to reach a compromise and finally normalise the conditions of our market for government bonds, whose solidity is fundamental not only for the savers and financial institutions of the country, but also and above all for a real recovery of the economy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the mayor of Venice, Luigi Brugnaro, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u26	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u27	Minister, you said, in a very technical report, that the Government will work to avoid the infringement procedure and to find a reasonable meeting point, in accordance with all the European parameters. You will feel a certain embarrassment in making these statements, since what you say is an honorable thing, but unfortunately it is not enough to escape the shadows and confusion on this point. You too, Minister, will have listened to the statements of the Vice-Presidents of the Council during these hours. In short, we are faced with the usual comedy and it is the Italians who pay in the true sense of the word, given the spread, but who also pay from the point of view of the credibility of our country, a great country, founder of Europe, while here, for an endless electoral campaign, within the Government everyone plays his part in comedy. Roboating announcements against Europe, announcements of miraculous policies, you and the President-in-Office of the Council trying to keep tone lower, more dialoguing positions: it seems that the painful experience you have had with the budget law has not served any purpose. The problem - and you yourself have not said this - is how you intend to cover the safeguard clauses, which, as you reminded us (you already did in another communication), are law: therefore, you have to find the resources to cover them and you have not told us how; much less you have told us how you intend to deal with the flat tax proposal. You say you will not cut the welfare: I have doubts, Minister, strong doubts, first of all because of the painful scene of the letter, published, changed. What does it mean to reduce state spending? Where? On what sectors? We had a first signal when the Ministry of Economics and Finance decided not to support the Health Pact agreement, placing a general constraint on respect for balances. This is what we fear: cuts in the skin of Italians, welfare, school, health care, which are already in an emergency situation. But then, after all, how do you intend to deal with Europe? Let me be clear: we are about to change Europe's austerity policy. The same reasoning that Europe makes about debt is not convincing and needs to be changed. Having said that, you are isolated in Europe and you are, paradoxically, also by those sovereign governments which should theoretically support your positions and which, on the contrary, are the most rigid towards the Italian accounts. How do you intend to address the problem of relations and dialogue with Europe? Of course, we need to change policies. The problem, Minister, is Italian from this point of view: we are stagnating. The different growth forecasts, of all the institutions of the world, range from -0,2 to +0,3 of the Bank of Italy. We are in a situation in which it is clear that the measures quota 100 and citizenship income do not produce growth: in fact, you wrote it yourself in the DEF. Debt grows, employment is steady and the forecast for 2019 is that it will fall as unemployment grows. How much longer are you not going to see this reality, not to deal with it? We are to avoid the infringement procedure. We're with Italy. We are with Italy and we are about to make a rigorous and even severe confrontation with Europe. But we need to change policies such as, for example, tax policies. I ask you, Minister, will you have a real fight against evasion? Will you lower the cash roof? Will you address the problem of restoring progressivity - other than flat tax - to the Italian tax system? Will you tackle this in a global way, including the revision of VAT rates? Will you be able to have the courage to say that, in order to face the serious problems of the country, perhaps that 8% that has greatly enriched itself against 92 percent that has been impoverished can make a contribution from its heritage to face the problems of the country? Are you going to deal with the issue of investment? Europe cannot be asked to pay VAT, the VAT clause or the flat tax in debt. Europe can be asked not to count its investments in debt. One can ask Europe, and one must expect Europe, to allow us to deal with infrastructure problems. On the green side that we proposed to you, there is no sign that this is a signal. Europe can be asked to make finally industrial policies. We are the second manufacture in Europe, we are in great difficulty with the companies that are in crisis, but above all in the most innovative sectors there is a need for a medium-term programme that invests on the supply chains, that is able to achieve a real transformation. The problem is this, Minister: if you are able and have the strength, you may have the responsibility to abandon the stories and promises that never come true and you will be able to face the real problems of the country. If so, we will face this step with you, willing to make a contribution to the country. If you continue with the abstract stories and far from reality, I fear - alas - that the Italians will pay and this would be a really serious problem. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u29	Mr Tria, I would like to recall your first speech in this House in which you proposed a policy focused on investment in infrastructure. Today it presents itself with a minimalist intervention also in the numbers that it anticipates as well as in the objectives that it proposes. It responds to the numbers, or to the numbers of the Commission, with as many numbers, which are also unsubstantiated, and with a view to the reasonable compromise. Its guidelines are those of compromise. Excuse me, Minister Tria, yours seems to be the intervention of a technical minister who is part of a technical government. I tell the colleagues of the majority who continue in the narrative of the Government of Change. A few weeks ago, we had a purely technical economic and financial document - it was said then - and now a purely technical intervention to respond to the infringement procedures that the Commission has initiated. Today - I am sorry to add this - you tell us that you met and spoke to the Economic and Financial Committee, but you did not tell us how you expressed yourself. It has expressed itself as fully justified by the Commission's procedures and findings and has therefore rejected us. Well, this is a technical vision that, unfortunately, leads us to derail, because from it we do not understand what the government's policy can be to reverse the course. It is said - and you have also said this today - that there will be less expenditure and more revenue; less expenditure because - someone said this this morning - we have saved on the income of citizenship and on quota 100. This means that the two symbolic, extraordinary measures that characterized the economic maneuver and the year of the Government of Change had less expense because the citizens did not believe you, because your predictions were resoundingly wrong. Do you realize that you misjudged the predictions of the two most important measures that you have praised in several election campaigns? Those measurements and predictions are wrong, the numbers say. The Government addresses this crucial issue - it could lead Italy to be on probation and controlled for the next ten years - in the worst possible way. You face it with a divided government: you say one thing, Minister; Prime Minister Conte says another; the two Vice Premiers tell another. Make this appointment without, after four months, a Minister for relations with the European Union. Face this decisive aspect with a country in complete stagnation. Yesterday's Istat data on the collapse of the industrial production of cars are emblematic. Minister Tria, I address - through you - the Government in general and the Minister for Economic Development, in particular: it makes me feel like reading in the newspapers that, on the fate of the main Italian car company, today international, FCA, yesterday FIAT, discuss the French Finance Minister and the Japanese Economy Minister to decide what the merger between the FCA, Renault and Nissan should be. And this happens in the absolute silence - not even a phone call or an opinion - of the Minister and in general of the Italian Government. That the Japanese Government and the French Government decide on the main company and on the great Italian automotive induced we think about the ignovia, the insignificance, the incompetence mixed with arrogance of this Government and the Ministers of the economic development, the job and the economy that are part of it. We are in stagnation and we are also in a system of reduction of consumption - even consumption decreases - and to all this you have replied waving - already three months ago, then two months ago, then a month ago and again in these days - the salvifici measures of decree-law growth and decree-law unblocks yards. They're still standing still, and I stress that. Faced with this, we read this morning that in the last two months, out of 166 implementing decrees, you have written 12: where is the decree implementing the web tax? Did you write that after six months? And the other implementing decrees, even the security decree-law, where are they? Make slogan laws, flag, without knowing how to make its implementing decrees. There's a vision missing. There's a project missing. There is no development strategy to confront and, if necessary, clash with the Commission. You can also overcome the European parameters, if there is a project on investment, development, growth; a reform project that makes the country understand that you can go to that confrontation, and maybe win it, because after there will be a concrete development of the country. If there isn't that, if there isn't a vision, if there isn't a project that's convincing, in Parliament and in the country, how are you going on that date? Are you going there without even agreeing with each other? As you confront and clash with the Commission and its parameters, if you yourself feel weak to the point that you do not propose in this Parliament any solution, if not a sum of no, between them contradictory, without any prospect of development for the country. We cannot follow you on this path. Above all, Italy cannot follow you. We are available to a comparison on European parameters, if this really leads to a project that can fascinate and make the country dream concretely; not on a minimalist logic of numbers that contrast to other numbers. On that logic, unfortunately, there is only the surrender of the country. On that we can certainly not follow you and on that we will raise the barricades. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u30	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u31	Minister, I do not hide our bitterness, because today we would have wished for a full mandate from your Government by your majority, at least with a vote of confidence. On the other hand, with today's information, the government comes out even weaker from this House than it did when it entered it. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times we have been witnessing old litanies, old liturgies, which we thought were archived. You know the fireplaces and summits in the secret rooms? They're coming back into fashion. So let me say, Minister, that, rather than talking about a Government of Change, what we have before us is a Government of Conservation, of Worst Conservation. Minister, we do not shy away from the debate on mini-BOTs, but you cannot evade the central theme of mini-BOTs, namely the credibility of those who propose it. They are the same people who have been promoting Italy's exit from the euro in recent years. Mr President, Minister, you teach me that, without credibility, we do not go far. This destabilizes not the European Union, nor Orban, your ally, who is the strictest of our controllers; this destabilizes the market, those who would like to invest in our country. Above all, Minister Tria, that market fears that this instrument is aimed at Italexit. That's why he doesn't approve of it so easily. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be deceived: it is not enough for a remiss that - I must say - is also an old liturgy of the old politics. It is not enough a remix to get out of the crisis in which your measures have catapulted us. I have to tell the truth: the reshuffle is an instrument that was also used in the old politics, but it was combined with the resignation. Here, the political leader of the party who has halved his votes not only does not resign, but also asks for the resignation of his colleagues and the ranking of those Subsecretaries who do not answer the phone. We're at the vanguard. It's not politics. In conclusion, we really hope that this House will be able to take note of the popular vote. Millions of citizens do not believe in this Government's ability and competence to relaunch investment and employment. We tremble our wrists in thinking that, at Mise, 156 crisis tables are managed by a former deputy of the Movimento 5 Stars. Today you would call him a trumpet whose armchair you found: this is the terminology you used a long time ago. Mr President, we hope that this Parliament will also take note of the sovereign vote. With those votes, millions of citizens call for a coherent and, above all, concrete government to return to Italy, led by a coalition of a united centre-right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u32	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u33	Mr President, we have listened carefully and respectfully to Mr Tria's speech and with the same respect we would like to tell him that we are shocked by the spectacle that the Government and the majority have been staging for weeks: a theatre of quarrels, paralysis and words totally different between what the Minister and the President of the Council say, on the one hand, and the words of the two Vice-Premiers, on the other. A few days ago, this government turned a year, so you can start to make a budget, which is disastrous, Minister. A year ago Italy was a country that undoubtedly dragged many problems, but had taken a virtuous path, made of growth, consolidation of public accounts and trust. You have abandoned that path and in a year you have forced public finances, cracked the confidence of businesses and consumers, increased current spending and blocked investment. The results of this policy tell us, not the European Union, but the figures, which are pitiful: economic stagnation; youth unemployment that has returned to growth; spread more than doubled compared to the previous election level; deficit and debt again rising. Of course, the international situation has deteriorated, as the Minister also reminded us, but in 2019 he did not remember that the growth gap between Italy and the rest of the euro area has worsened, and that means one thing: your economic policy is the first cause of stagnation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The savers figured it out, they don't trust this government. Markets demand higher and higher rates to buy our government bonds and the spread between Italian and Greek bonds for the first time saw a worse position than our country. This is the real problem of Italy, and not Europe. The problem is the failure of your economic policy and the total absence of a strategy for the future. In other words, Mr President, Italy's problem is this Government. After such a disaster, a person and a citizen should expect no public apology, compared to the many unwitting promises, but at least some self-criticism, but nothing. Let me say this: there has been nothing in your words today either, Minister. The European elections have passed, but the permanent election campaign is still under way and is resumed with electoral flags, which in many cases are genuine nonsense. The mother of all this nonsense is the idea, caressed by the two Vice-Premiers, that a new confrontation with Europe is the main way to make the maneuver for 2020. You already tried that last year and you came out with broken bones and today we are even weaker and less credible than a year ago. Your isolation in Europe is before everyone's eyes: the bet of a new European Commission closer to the sovereignists has died in the bud. Forget the evidence then and start negotiating seriously with the European Commission, before going to Brussels, as happened in December, with the hat in your hand, under pressure from the markets. Second nonsense, the mini-BOTs: our spread has risen over 250 because it incorporates a risk of renaming, that is, the exit of Italy from the single currency. The Bank of Italy told us this in the report presented a few days ago. Under these conditions, a government worthy of such a name would make every effort to calm down the waters and restore confidence. What are you doing? You have invented the mini-BOTs, the one that - as Governor Draghi reminded us - is configured as an illegal parallel currency. Other countries have adopted small-scale government bonds and I remind you of two: Germany in 1933 and Argentina in 2001, where those titles were called patacón. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr. Minister, Salvini and Di Maio want to sell to Italian companies the patacóns, securities devalued below parity, but Italian companies, which have claims against the public administration, are entitled to real money and not to fake government bonds. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The third flag reappeared in the debate is the flat tax, that is the idea that by cutting taxes to the rich, the economy magically starts again. Minister, Salvini and Di Maio, the reference shareholders, have not yet explained - and you did not do it today - where you will find 23 billion euros to block the increase in VAT. You have not explained this to us and you are putting another 30 billion euros on the table for flat tax, and not to cut the tax wedge; not to help families with children and not even to invest in the environment and school, as we in the Democratic Party have proposed. You're putting another 30 billion on the plate to charge bankers the same rate as a metal mechanic or a teacher. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All these choices, Minister, do not indicate a path, but lead us to a dead end, but perhaps the truth is another. The truth is that a piece of this majority is trying, one step behind the other, to put the country before the accomplished fact and to make its exit from the single currency inevitable. Here are the mini-BOTs; here is the flat tax that breaks public finances and here is the new final clash with the European Commission. But if this is the case, you must tell the Italians in a transparent way, not hiding behind a finger, and you must know that we will not allow it. Italy is facing a crossroads, Mr President: this economic policy leads us straight to the infringement procedure, which means being under the protection of Europe for years; the exact opposite of the national sovereignty that you say you want to defend and, in particular, the infringement procedure means a new season of austerity. You say you want to expand, but you're leading us straight to a season of new cuts. Minister, we have heard words of common sense from you and the President of the Council these days and today. Of course, these are words similar to those we had heard in the summer of 2018, when you promised to oppose unsustainable maneuvers and then we saw how it ended. Look at the replay of this play, we can't afford it. The truth is that the government and the majority are at the end of the line. Take note of this before doing further damage, before putting the country on a road without return. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You should also note this, Minister, in order to save your credibility and above all for the good of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u35	Mr President, the debate following the Minister's information, like so many other debates in this House and, of course, as it should be, also has a somewhat liturgical dimension. There is a ritual: the majority support their government and the opposition torn their clothes in excess of pessimism. This goes a little against the spirit of national solidarity that we mentioned just before in recalling an important politician from a few decades ago. We also try to avoid being distracted by another ritual, that of European procedures which now require us to focus on fractions of decimal point in a debate which, personally - as I have already argued and will argue - I consider rather sterile. On the other hand, we know - and the Minister has made it available several times to discuss it in the Commission in a constructive discussion with Parliament - that at the moment on European tables there are other issues of great importance, such as - for example - the reform of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the ever-open debate on European insurance on bank deposits and - I add - also the ever-open topic of the eurozone budget; three issues on which we are likely to be able to return in order to be able to involve the whole House in the reflections that have been carried out several times in the Commission. I would like to add a few brief remarks on the sidelines of these issues instead of focusing on statements such as: It was you, you bad guys. It's your fault, on the squabble and on the decimals. The issue of the reform of the European Stability Mechanism is important because it would require a further conservative change in the governance of the eurozone. The Commission's proposals to include this mechanism in the Community Treaties must be resisted and the ESM should be given the task of assigning credit to countries and, therefore, to their sovereign debt. Unfortunately, we see in detail the design of our brothers in the North to allow within the eurozone the controlled default of a state. This is something we must resist, partly because it would undermine the very meaning of the European Union project. The issue of European deposit insurance should also be considered with caution. It is said: first you have to reduce your risks and then we will share them. The risk reduction, however, has been done at home with a heavy use of public money, which is now demonized and penalised in every way when it comes to securing our banking system. Under previous circumstances, very few billions would have sufficed compared to the many spent in the North. I come back to this point because one issue that strikes me a lot in the context of what we have discussed so far is that everyone is focusing on whether or not we should respect the rules, on the consequences of this naughty government which - apparently - makes irreverent gestures towards Europe. No one, however, raises the question of whether these rules are rational or not. I believe that all of us in here, in order to protect our role as parliamentarians and the branch of Parliament that welcomes us, should make a profound and methodical reflection on the opacity of certain European decision-making mechanisms. Why can we not discuss in this assembly, for example, draft proposals for the reform of the European Stability Mechanism? Why must we condition our action as a government and our ability to meet those who have suffered natural disasters or the possibility of succumbing to those who are in poverty to very opaque European rules without a logical foundation, as everyone now agrees? I would like to state two principles with a view to the future and not to the decimals. The first principle that concerns the third issue that I raised - the fiscal policy of the eurozone and, in general, the euro area - is that there can be no convergence, especially with these rules, if there is no stabilisation. As I have already said - and I shall repeat this until your nausea and I apologise - the current European rules link countries to the worst result they have achieved before. This is the result that is achieved when the growth potential of a country is calculated using statistical methods that look to the past. Then, one must avoid that a country achieves bad results and it must be done by intervening quickly; otherwise another injustice is experienced under these rules, namely that those who break them massively and promptly - as France did in 2009, bringing the deficit to 7% - are rewarded, because first of all it makes a strong anti-cyclical policy and, therefore, keeps its potential high and then, having reached 7, if the following year goes down to 6, it can say that it has climbed a march, but everything is fine because it is converging towards the objective. That's unfair. I know that from the dialogue between this Government and the Commission, results are emerging. I know that the Economic and Financial Committee has shown not closure, but openness to dialogue and this is very important. It is important that there is a dialogue on these rules. Some say that contesting them is insanity and certainly would have seemed it ten or fifteen years ago. I have another definition of madness: madness is repeating the same actions expecting a different result. I am sure that you, Minister, will be able to interpret the desire of this majority to bring to Europe the desire to take different actions, more aligned with rationality and common sense, rather than an obtuse and subordinate adherence to rules to which no one believes anymore. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u37	Minister, we have listened carefully to your words, but they have stopped strictly bureaucratic and formal relations with the European Union. Certainly this is a point that deserves and to which the Government must devote all the necessary attention. You have explained to us how you are trying to avoid the infringement procedure. We hope that you will succeed, because we are still on the Italian side and we hope that they will not have to pay the consequences of rash choices that are not attributable to any of them. However, in parallel, we have the real world. There are not only the figures of 0.1, 0.2, 2.1 or 2.4; there are also all the things that are being carried out every day, even in these days, that are not precisely on the eve of the budget law. Deputy Prime Minister Salvini today reiterates that the flat tax must be introduced in maneuvering. Let's try to make an optimistic prediction: 20 billion? Probably 30? Let's say 20, 30 billion. There is the VAT that no one is talking about: neither the President-in-Office of the Council, nor the Vice-Presidents of the Council, nor, unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, who is you, and who is here. It is 23 billion euros, which, if not found, will raise VAT and prices and will cause an immediate and dramatic contraction of consumption, as well as a distrust in our country, after for years it has been said that it would not be increased. We must urgently talk about what is already in the law: without regulatory intervention, on January 1st - in a few months - VAT will rise and certainly not a little. The Vice President of the Council Di Maio says that one billion must be found for families; the President of the Council says that measures such as citizenship income and 100 quota are indispensable. And you could still move on. That's the point. What do you think you're doing for the real country? How do you plan to act not only in relations with European bodies, to increase likes and maybe join polls, but also to grow the country? If the country does not grow, all calculations and negotiations are useless: unemployment will not fall - indeed, it will increase - and our companies will tend even more to close or move elsewhere. These are the real problems and what depends on the possibility, for young people and not, of finding a job - and, for those who have it, of not losing it - and the certainty of receiving pensions (apart from them, which you have inserted - these yes - with a certain timeliness). We must at least make sure that our system holds fast and, to this end, growth is needed. If we continue with measures based on the very short term, criminal populism - as has been authoritatively described in the last few days that scare entrepreneurs and on measures that stifle the economy, instead of relaunching it, we cannot have a serene vision of the future. You must give us this vision; you must give it to us, Minister. Very good relations with the European Union, but there is the relationship with the real country that needs to grow. We are willing to support you if you make choices for growth. We are also prepared to support you in the face of an increase in the figures that are imposed at European level, but only if there is a convincing recovery plan and not in the presence of a very small cabotage and an attitude aimed at looking at tomorrow morning's polls and tonight's likes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u39	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that you don't practice the Senate very much and you don't have much room for it, because you could hear the echo of Cicero's complaint to Catilina. Maybe before you leave Palazzo Madama, if you want, you can enjoy the fresco of the Maccari room. And she will feel it too that "How long, Catilina, will you abuse our patience?" Until when? I'm certainly not Cicero, and she's definitely not Catilina either. Of course, we would have liked to express ourselves on a resolution which committed it definitively and unequivocally to negotiating with the European Union, and instead we take the measures with information on which there is no binding vote for you and for the Government. We take note of this, but with vigour we will then relaunch that "Till when?" Until when do we have to accept tax evasion - a tax evasion that makes disappear, according to the revelations of LuxLeaks, something like 1,000 billion every year - according to the law inspired by Juncker, for the benefit of the usual multinationals and large financial groups? How long will real tax havens within the European Union be tolerated? How long will the forts always have an extra saint in paradise? You, like us, Minister, will certainly be able to scream your indignation at this European Commission. "Till when?" we said. How long will families, workers, entrepreneurs and citizens be forced to stand like flies in a glass because someone doesn't have the courage to say that austerity is dying? How long will people be threatened with spreads and markets, preventing the ECB from actually doing the Central Bank so as to make it a lender of last resort? How long can Germany violate the parameters - for example - of commercial surplus without anyone extracting a red card? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Will any of them be advanced, red card, or are they all for us? How long are they going to abuse our patience in Brussels? We have the courage to say so, Minister Tria. And you will certainly have, because you are the Minister of a political government that comes from a contract where the following is written: In order to consolidate the country's growth and development, we believe it is necessary to separate public investment expenditure from the current budget deficit, as announced several times by the European Commission and never actually and fully implemented. With regard to deficit policies through the re-debate of the EU Treaties and the main regulatory framework, multi-annual programming is envisaged to ensure the financing of the proposals covered by this contract through the recovery of resources resulting from waste cutting, debt management and the appropriate use of the deficit. On this contract we have given the trust and from the contract we do not move. Therefore, that is the peristyle within which you too will have to move in the negotiations with Brussels. The parliamentary majority supporting this government is based on a rejection of the recipes that, for twenty years, have proved their failure, as some Nobel Prize winners such as Stiglitz, Krugman, or other economists who no longer know how to warn us that we do not grow up. Other than Italy is a serious problem, as Juncker said. The letter sent to us by the European Commission is incorrect, illogical and completely detached from reality. We are talking about an infringement procedure against Italy for the deviation of one decimal place from the forecasts, and we are using measuring instruments, such as the output gap, which, among other things, you yourself had criticized. And above all - masterpiece of masterpieces - it is recognized that the international economic situation is unfavourable, but we are asking for measures to increase taxes or draconian cuts in expenditure. This will never happen with our consent; never with our vote. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] How much suffering does that illogical fanaticism have to generate again to understand that the paradigm needs to be changed? We do not accept the usual discourse whereby citizens can change governments through free democratic elections, but those governments cannot change economic policies. We are here precisely to change those economic policies and we are doing so on the basis of a mandate that comes to us from the sovereign people. We do not need driver's licenses and I also invite you not to look for them outside Parliament: in the country there is still an important majority of responsible Italians, who responsibly ask us to govern, following a social horizon, that is political, not technical and not third. That is why - at the close - I am here to tell you that you, Minister Tria, do not have a blank mandate, allow me. We call for your negotiation, also in the light of the Moavero Act, No 234 of 2012, to comply with these four points: timely provision of all the documents on the agenda of the Ecofin Council of 14 June 2019, in particular with regard to the reform of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism (among other things, we also expected a few more words on the Ecofin, since it was part of the agenda); a reservation for parliamentary scrutiny on any new amendment or text proposed in the European framework on the reform of the ESM; a reservation for parliamentary examination on any text proposed at European level on any proposal relating to risk weighting on government bonds; a specific provision for the provision of common debt instruments at European monetary union level to be used in an anti-cyclical and stabilising manner within a common budget of the euro area. For the Movimento 5 Stars these are essential points, in an institutional grammar where the centrality of Parliament is a firm point. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u40	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, as already communicated to the Groups, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting will be supplemented by the discussion of proposals for a preliminary question relating to Decree-Law No 35 of 30 April 2019 concerning measures for the health service of the Calabria Region and other urgent measures in the field of health. Next, the other items already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u44	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking because this morning on the radio I heard of yet another feminicide which took place in Cisterna di Latina. Elisa Ciotti, thirty-five years old, was killed by her husband, Fabio Trabacchin, who was also thirty-five years old, a truck driver. She was hammered to death, after a violent fight, in the very first morning. The couple apparently were about to part, yet they were still living together. The murderer then escaped, letting their ten-year-old girl discover her own mother pours into the bed in a pool of blood. Though desperate and lonely, the child had the strength to call a relative who then alerted 118. All useless, because Elisa Ciotti was dead. The husband confessed after a few hours and will certainly be condemned. The child will somehow have to survive as she can, with the help of psychologists, trying to return to a normal that will no longer be. Unfortunately, other events have taken place in the same city. In 2014, a prison police officer killed his wife, in 2018 a police officer shot his wife first and then his daughters aged eight and thirteen, then committed suicide. The reason is always the same: women who decided to break the relationship, marriage. This means that there are women who are unfortunately killed, men who are condemned or who commit suicide in turn and orphans who have to face life in some way. I think it is necessary to think very deeply, to understand how it is possible for this to happen, with a very alarming frequency. The data speak of 120 feminicides in 2015, 115 in 2016, 113 in 2017 and 86 in 2018: practically a massacre. I hope that serious consideration can also be given to preventive measures in the 12th Commission. It is not possible - we also receive here - for children to be educated from primary school to mutual respect and a correct life and then, instead, there is the most total inability to contain the worst instincts. This is a reflection that I think policy should take very urgently. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u47	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an urban problem is shaking public opinion in Barletta, one of the many sad stories that have devastated many Italian urban centres, victims of aggressive urban policies and bureaucratic delays, which sometimes appear strategically orchestrated. Barletta is a beautiful city, with a millennial old town of great cultural interest and a stable urban outline: the so-called consolidated city. About two years ago a permit was granted for the demolition of Palazzo Tresca, at the end of the 19th century, to build a new building. They say it was a simple act due, although the palace has its own merit and an architectural curtain role in the established city. The poor urban planning that characterized Barletta, however, has allowed many disasters and the one in question could be yet another. In the city there is still a general regulatory plan of 1971, which therefore has almost half a century, and in 2009 a new general urban planning plan (PUG) was started, but it is still on its way. A few days ago the laying of some barriers next to the palace raised a vast popular dissent and also the interest of the superintendence, who wanted to see clear in this matter, blocked the work. Is it intolerable to lose urban jewelry, even more so when it happens in compliance with the rules (or in the absence of rules?). A city raped in its architecture and in its history loses its identity, it becomes a non-place, anonymous, insignificant, which makes the citizens scattered, uprooted from their origins. For a community to exist, there must be a common place, unique and unrepeatable, with its exclusive history. Of course, it is not possible to derogate from the right of private property, but first of all it is necessary to protect public law. Here I ask everyone, within their competent offices, to do their utmost to protect Barletta and all the cities, with the adoption of a modern PUG, to protect the consolidated city, strict controls for the respect of concessions and norms and for the protection of cultural heritage. A strong parliamentary and governmental commitment to the preservation and enhancement of the urban environment is highly desirable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u50	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House and the Government a serious scandal, which concerns the sale of diamonds, which were put on the bank counters to unsuspecting savers, for about 1.5 billion euros, the subject of a criminal investigation by the Milan Public Prosecutor, who in 2016 hypothesized the crimes of aggravated fraud and self-laundering, imposing the seizure of 700 million euros. Intesa Sanpaolo, Unicredit, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, BPM and Banca Aletti have sold at inflated prices their stones to unsuspecting customers, selling them for safe investments, without informing of the real risks and the impossibility of reselling the precious purchased, unfortunately in the silence of Consob and the Bank of Italy. The Antitrust had, instead, contested the modalities of offer, ascertaining the incorrectness, and imposing - in October 2017 - a sanction of 15 million euros to four credit institutions for these serious violations. Customers who found themselves in pocket diamonds at inflated prices, difficult to liquidate, whose sale guaranteed banks rich commissions, up to 10 times the value of commissions compared to normal financial products. "Report" documents - through the story of a manager - also the strong pressures from top to bottom, from managers to managers and employees. I mean, Mr President, a scandal. And the most disconcerting thing that brought to light the investigation of "Report" concerns gifts, gifts and gifts to the top managers of the banks to allow to sell diamonds at inflated prices by the companies, that is to say to the subjects who were honored with stays in luxury hotels, up to archaeological finds such as bronze statues of the Roman era, sculptures of Magna Grecia, which could even configure hypotheses of corruption. Thank you, Mr President, and I would also ask the Government to reply to Question 4-00179, which was submitted to the Commission, together with other senators, on 30 May 2018, at sitting No 8, which denounces this banking scandal, with the help of the distracted controllers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-120.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 12 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.16 p.m.
