ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the situation in Venezuela. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u5	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the Government is following with the utmost attention the development of the dramatic events in Venezuela, especially since the social, political and economic crisis has resulted in a terrible humanitarian emergency and an unprecedented institutional crisis. Today's communications in this House, where I had come on 30 January for information, are very important because they will also allow the Assembly to express itself, with a vote within the union that Parliament has on the government's activities. I shall therefore try to summarize, in its essential points, the position of the Government which I have been instructed to present here today. I would like to point out four important points that sum up and summarise the government's position. The first point concerns the strong concern about the humanitarian emergency; the objective is to find non-conflict solutions that allow, on the one hand, the essential supplies of basic goods (medicines and foodstuffs) without delay and, on the other hand, assistance to the thousands of refugees who have gone from Venezuela to neighbouring countries. Italy is committed to this with the allocation of appropriate funds in the framework of direct international humanitarian aid. The second point is the Government's firm condemnation of all kinds of violence and repression, of violation of fundamental freedoms and human rights. We are in favour of an inclusive peace process which, within the framework of national reconciliation, will enable us to take the path of democracy to a full extent and prevent an increase in tensions which could also lead, as I think we all fear, to civil war situations. Thirdly, the Government considers that last May's presidential elections in Venezuela have been affected by their correctness, legality and fairness and, therefore, do not attribute democratic legitimacy to those who would have won it, Mr Nicolás Maduro. On the contrary, the Government recognises the full legitimacy of the legislative elections that led to the election of the National Assembly in 2015. The government calls for new presidential elections as quickly as possible. These new presidential elections must of course be free, credible, transparent and must be recognised as such by the international community. They must be carried out with your full assurance. Fourthly, the Government is committed to protecting the security and interests of our compatriots living in Venezuela (a community of 150,000 people) and the operation of Italian companies operating, as well as the protection of the vast Venezuelan community of Italian origin. I am not going to retrace the various developments that have led to this situation, partly because we had already had the opportunity to share them on the occasion of the disclosure of not too many days ago. I would just like to mention a few key points in the current context. Let us start with the level of the European Union. As you know, on 26 January there was a joint declaration shared by all the Member States (including us) which supported the National Assembly as a legitimately elected and democratically legitimate body of Venezuela, condemning all violence, repression and any conflicting drift and making an urgent appeal to the convening of new presidential elections. In this declaration, the European Union reserved the right to take further steps if there had not been any development within the next few days. As you know, developments on this front were, in particular, the vote of the European Parliament on 31 January, which recognised the President of the Venezuelan National Assembly Juan Guaidó as interim President and the subsequent recognition, carried out by the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union. The development on the European Union side has also led to the activation of an international contact group which includes Latin American countries and countries of the European Union, among which we too are present. The Group held its first meeting on 7 February and has an explicit mandate, i.e. it is not a group of general contacts: it has an explicit mandate to facilitate in the best possible way the process of reaching a fully qualified presidential election of democracy. At the meeting of 7 February, at which I took part in representing the Italian Government, the conclusion was expressed in a statement which indicated three points; they are important because they represent at this moment a trace of the path that can be followed in order to arrive concretely at the elections, beyond the wishes or lines of political direction expressed. The first point concerns the concrete objective of the presidential elections as soon as possible, free, democratic and guaranteed. The second point concerns the appointment of the two co-chairmen of the Group, who are represented by Uruguay and the European Union, in the person of the High Representative for Foreign Policy Federica Mogherini. The two co-chairs are responsible for making appropriate contacts with all Venezuelan actors in order to identify the elements that can enable us to start a process leading to the elections and - second element - to speed up the flow of humanitarian aid (the emerging element I mentioned). The third element, mentioned in this statement of the Contact Group of 7 February, is the establishment of an ad hoc technical preparatory mission to Venezuela in the coming weeks to start these stages of preparation of the contacts necessary to set in motion the electoral path that, as we well understand, is anything but simple to organize with all the chrisms of the democratic guarantee. I would like to point out that other groups of countries are also active on Venezuelan issues: the Montevideo Mechanism, which brings together Caribbean countries, Uruguay, Mexico and Bolivia, which has a favourable position for negotiating dialogue, but does not call for new presidential elections; then there is the Lima Group, which brings together eleven American countries, the majority of Latin America, plus Canada, which has expressed itself clearly in the recognition of the role of President of the National Assembly Juan Guaidó. The situation in Venezuela, of course, is also the subject of attention within the United Nations, where different positions, in particular from permanent members of the Security Council (United States, Russia and China) also determine the presence of different motions for resolutions within the UN. Senators and senators, the situation is of course extremely complex, full of uncertainties and serious risks. The objective, which I believe can be shared, is to avoid degeneration, put an end to the violence and acts of limitation of fundamental freedoms, to undertake a path that can lead to an electoral outlet to give the word back to the Venezuelan people. It is also very important to avoid favoring or failing to control drifts towards even more conflicting situations. For this reason, the position of the Government that I am in charge of representing you is in favour of a climate that can foster national reconciliation, a climate of dialogue, while remaining firm in the condemnation, as I have said several times, of the violence, in the clear demand for new credible presidential elections, in the non-recognition of the presidential elections that have taken place previously. The Government, of course, in addition to being available to the two branches of Parliament to report constantly on this issue, has always kept the European partners in this position loyal and transparent, as well as our main allies, beginning with the United States. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u6	I say that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u7	I would like to greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico (Mother Maria Mazzarello) in Turin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u8	I declare open the discussion on the communications of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u9	Mr Minister, now that I have listened to you, I will vote even more strongly against the motion for a resolution which will be presented by the Government. You made a perfect chronology of what happened in Venezuela, but Balzac, with reason, believed that those who make chronology make the history of fools. There is no reconciliation between those who use arms and a people who suffer from hunger. You said that we must condemn what has happened in Venezuela, indeed what is happening, but condemnation without action, in politics does not make any sense, because it is unable to achieve any effect or result. You said in this House that you appreciated the decision of the European Parliament, but you forgot to say that the Government, which you represent here honorably, did not sign it and did not share it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD ergo groups]] , it is a problem to share and act on the basis of a dictation and orientation in which you do not believe deeply. The Venezuelan question, as the government has dealt with it, does not differ from the rest of an improvised and dangerous foreign policy. It happened on the case of Afghanistan, where the Minister of Defence supported a position and you, rightly, supported a different thesis; there is an open issue with France; there is a daily issue open with the European Union. It is in fact - and this has been written and said in a lapidary way - that that "thank you" pronounced by Maduro towards the Italian Government, when the latter distinguished itself from the position taken by the majority of European countries and another fifty countries of the world, recalls very much the homage given by Stalin in 1924 to the Mussolini Government. This is something we absolutely cannot be proud of. The question to which you, representing your Government, must answer is what Italy intends to do. The answer is not in the contract, because politics, as you well know, is moving; and since politics is moving and it is a public fact, what is happening in Venezuela could not be entirely - and I stress - entirely planned. Two considerations in conclusion. The first is not to interfere with the affairs of a sovereign state. I would remind you - but you know as much as I do - that the current President Juan Guaidó has been invested by Parliament on the basis of a constitutional rule, if I am not mistaken, it seems to me that Article 233 of the Constitution wanted by Chávez in Venezuela. So we're talking to a non-exversive president, but a president who has institutional support within a constitution that we can assess for what it is, but that's what it is. The second consideration is that neutrality in these cases, when faced with a political crisis is added a humanitarian crisis, it is not pilatesque, it is much worse, because Pilate, in the end, chose for the responsibilities he had: it seems much more that of Bertoldo, who cannot find the tree to hang himself on. That's why it's worse. You should have told us - and I conclude, Mr President - that the Italian Government supports and recognises the current President, and then should have said: we are working for free elections and a different role for Europe. There is a people and there is a dictator. I think the choice is very easy to make. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u10	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u11	Mr President, since I realize that, with everything that has happened in recent times, the situation in Venezuela is not easy to understand, if it is not contextualized, I would like to remain on the track that has been given to us by Minister Moavero Milanesi. The Minister has put four points to Parliament's attention: humanitarian emergency, condemnation of violence, presidential elections, guarantees for our fellow countrymen. Well, at once I would say that if I did not know that the responsibility was not with the excellent Minister for Foreign Affairs, but with the majority who expressed it, I would say that I am disappointed by what the Minister said and the reason is exactly what was reported on time by Senator Nencini, just now. Colleagues, if you follow me for a moment, I would like to examine with you the four points on which the Minister spoke. First of all, there is the issue of the humanitarian emergency (essential supplies, assistance to refugees and everything else). We agree, Minister, but this is not a new issue: we woke up, this majority woke up today, claiming that there is an emergency, but there has been an emergency for months. In fact, how could the fact that in a country three, four million refugees are forced to flee on foot be different? We are talking today about a humanitarian emergency. But how should we define the situation that has occurred in recent years, which has led 90 percent of children not to go to school and go through the garbage? I'm sorry, wasn't that a humanitarian emergency? Wasn't it a humanitarian emergency that people would walk to the Colombian border? Minister, you are right: there is a humanitarian emergency, but this is nothing new compared to the situation which Parliament had already spoken about a year and a half ago in the last parliamentary term, and Parliament as an institution has its own continuity, because it passes through the legislation, but Parliament as such represents the nation. I would like to add, Minister, that you are a depositary of institutional continuity. You know, because the offices of your Ministry say so, that a predecessor of yours and a predecessor of your predecessor, namely Gentiloni Silveri and Alfano - I quote by name as it is simpler - went to the Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Affairs asking for medicines to arrive, for the same logic that you referred to in your speech. The Venezuelans explained that they had no problem and that, if our Venezuelan compatriots needed medicine, it was enough to provide a list. Gentiloni Silveri and Alfano rightly humbled themselves - they did well, I would have done the same - to give the list of our compatriots and, of course, that list remained dead letter in the drawers of the Venezuelan government. So there is nothing new in what is happening today. There is only the fact that the world has opened its eyes, the whole world saves us, that we are the country - and the flags of Venezuela and Italy say so reproduced in the badge I am wearing today - which has traditionally provided Venezuela with the largest number of compatriots. The second point concerns the condemnation of violence and repression of human rights. Minister, but you can't play Alice in wonderland. We had hundreds of political prisoners, but when the Church attempted mediation (and Cardinal Parolin well knows Venezuela, because he was an apostolic nuncio to Venezuela and knew what to talk about) she finally withdrew from mediation, because the first point she put was that of the influx of material for Venezuelan disinherits and refugees and demanded the release of political prisoners and a credible electoral process. No was answered on the whole line by Maduro and, even, the Church withdrew from mediation. Today we are talking about condemnation of violence and repression, but we cannot make such a general speech. The condemnation of violence and repression has a name and surname: the Maduro regime, which is strongly connected to drug trafficking, which has moved its traditional routes and from Colombia, today passes everything from Venezuela. International drug trafficking passes from there: let us open our eyes, if only to combat it better! [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP, PD and Mixed.]] Colleagues, let's move on. Let's move on. I want to speak to my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars. I know that it is their traditional position not to accept foreign interference but, since they say so in this matter, I say to them: colleagues, the biggest foreign interference in Venezuela is the Venezuelan army, controlled by Cuban observers: the children of asylum also know it. In fact, Cubans permanently at the top of the army today represent the guarantee that the army does not leave Maduro, because the average and low ranks of the army have already refused to shoot at the population. I would like to point out one thing, ladies and gentlemen, because I personally respect all of you who are sitting in this House and I think that you are all people in good faith: for the first time, in the last demonstration, there have been no deaths. And why did this happen today and not happen in the demonstrations of the past years and months? Because the army is afraid; because it is beginning to be afraid of continuing to perpetrate the mass murders that it has perpetrated in recent years; because there is control of international observers; because the lighthouses have been lit. So, Minister, yes, there is no doubt that we want to condemn the violence and repression, but these have a name and a surname. Presidential elections affected from the legal point of view. Minister, here too you have discovered hot water, because the European Union had already said so. When Maduro was installed a few months ago, no European ambassador went there, not even the Italian ambassador. Italy did not then dissoculate itself from this international position, which is presented to us as if it were something new, while it is something acclaimed and also signed by Italy. There is another point that Italy has not signed today, but I will come to the end. You say that the Parliamentary Assembly of 2005 is legitimate. Thank you, we know it too: it is the only legitimate organism. We have forgotten to say that part of its members has been imprisoned, that Venezuelan Members do not receive salaries, that they have closed the possibility of access to Parliament and that the Constitutional Court, in Maduro's hands, has declared them illegal. So, even here, we discover hot water, always late. Finally, there is the most grotesque aspect, Minister, truly grotesque: guarantees for our compatriots and the operation of Italian companies. But go ask Astaldi, go ask Ghella, go ask Salini, go ask Italian operators: some of these Italian companies are in crisis, as we read in all newspapers, because they have to receive between 300 and 400 million credits from Venezuela. Are we talking today about guarantees for Italian companies? But we've been dreaming of these guarantees for the last ten years, and today, here, I don't know what can be done. Today, perhaps, Maduro, even if he wanted, could not pay the Italian companies, could pay them the past years, when there was an absolute silence on this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by asking: what are we talking about? At this point, I too am confused and do not know what we are talking about if, after having called it again, we are saying things that we all already know and that are in the "Corriere dei Piccoli" (Corriere dei Piccoli). So, what are we talking about? We are talking about a fact concerning Italy, and I say this by sending an ideal hug to those who listen to us at the moment, who are our compatriots in Venezuela, who are trepidating and ashamed of the Italian position, when they would like Italy to be in the front row. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP, PD and Mixed.]] We are talking about the fact that we are the only significant European country to take this position (I don't know who is there, if Slovakia is too, but when I talk about significant countries I mean France, Germany, England, Poland and Spain). Sánchez is a socialist and was the first to recognize Guaidó. Even Italy seems to have vetoed the recognition of Guaidó by the European Union. Party's over. This debate is clear. A series of things, acclaimed and well-known, have been presented to us as if they had been produced because of accidents in history and not because of the will of a regime that is drug-trafficking today. We are waiting to see what happens, hoping that nothing serious will happen, that there will be no deaths and that there will be a humanitarian cordon. But what humanitarian cordon, Minister Moavero Milanesi, when Maduro has already closed the access roads? The humanitarian cordon cannot come from heaven. With this regime there can be no dialogue (because it would be a hypocrisy, a fiction), or humanitarian aid (which can only be received to the detriment of the Government). The government will never accept humanitarian aid. We then wash our consciences, saying that we hope that all these bad things will not happen. Unfortunately, they are happening. I would have hoped that the Italian Government would not make an equation between dictatorship and democracy, as when, in the 1970s, during the struggle between the State and the Red Brigades, it was said: Neither with the State nor with the Red Brigades. Then great popular forces rejected this equation, which we are doing for Venezuela today: we are neither with Maduro nor with Guaidó. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]] Mr Minister, we are with Guaidó and we ask the majority and the government to recognise it. We are with the Venezuelan Parliament, to which we ideally join in a loyal embrace. Tomorrow we will hear the President of the Foreign Commission of the Venezuelan National Assembly. These are courageous women and men, who are fighting for principles that now seem forgotten by us: freedom and democracy. Long live Venezuela! [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u12	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speeches have touched on a number of issues which I shall not dwell on. Minister, I lack the logic of your speech. There's a jump I understand in general embarrassment, but it's not convincing. At the third point in your report you say that the presidential elections of 20 May 2018 were affected by irregularities declared by all national and international bodies and that, therefore, the Italian Government does not recognize the legitimacy of the current President. Great. Then, it is active for the humanitarian emergency, the electoral process and more. But who should lead this process? If Maduro is not recognized by all European countries, including ours (why do we not recognize the legitimacy of the current President of Venezuela), who should make the electoral process clear and clear? The electoral process is not done by itself, either in an assembly way, or by the method of "one" is worth one, which is so fashionable. The electoral process follows the Venezuelan Constitution, which entrusts powers in extraordinary and emergency cases to the National Assembly - in particular to its President. If that is the logic, then, it should be added, as I hope, that given the situation, the Italian Government recognizes the interim Government Guaidó that must compensate for the humanitarian emergency and the electoral process. In fact, if this passage of clarification is missing, I did not understand who should lead the national process and guarantee humanitarian aid. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Caliendo.]] I therefore hope that in your reply you will clarify this point because preparing an electoral process in a complex and miserable country like Venezuela is a big problem: a census worthy of this name has long been missing. Millions of Venezuelans are abroad, in Colombia or elsewhere. Are they deprived of the right to vote? So it's also a process of institution reconstruction, check and balance. I do not want to glorify but there is the problem of rebuilding a minimum of institutions. This implies a not very short process. Who leads this process, if not the figures indicated by the Venezuelan Constitution that, in cases of emergency, says that the National Assembly, and in particular its President, take over the powers? So, I understand the embarrassment, I also understand that it was necessary to correct the behaviour of the Government and some of its members that was not very linear, but, if we get to this point, it is time to say a clear word: do we recognize or not the transitional government led by Guaidó? Because without that clarification, we're not going anywhere. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] Finally, it is clear that in order to avoid violence it is perhaps necessary to find a way out for Maduro. He was offered the amnesty, the exile hypothesis (great campaign to avoid the war in Iraq that we lost) but there is also the referral to the International Criminal Court because I remind you that Venezuela was one of the very first countries to ratify the statute of the International Court; therefore the President can defend himself in the trial and be referred by Venezuela itself to the International Criminal Court. That is what I hope, but I expect from you, at the end of this debate, a clear answer: where are we? Halfway, with one foot to the right and one to the left or are we working to make this transition the strongest, the most sustained and the most respectful of the human and civil rights of all Venezuelans? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u15	Mr President, this is the fourth time that Venezuela and the role of Italy are being discussed in this House within a few days. And in the fourth debate, you, Minister Moavero Milanesi, come to this House with a position that defines Pilatesca as very little. From now on we are increasingly concerned about Venezuela. I would remind the Members of this House that just yesterday the interim President, Mr Guaidó, appealed to our country, eagerly asking for recognition so that this could prevent the armed reaction of the dictatorial regime of Maduro. And to this heartfelt appeal you respond in this way, i.e. you do not respond. From this moment we, Minister Moavero Milanesi, are also very concerned about Italy and should be so, especially you, in the light of your personal and political history, for where you pushed our country. With the majority resolution that you are preparing to present here, I feel like listening to what twenty, thirty years ago was felt in this country when we were under attack by terrorist groups. Those who were then conniving with terrorists, and are now present in the Government, propose the same position: neither with the BRs nor with the State. You told us this at the moment: neither with dictatorship, nor with freedom, nor with the torturers, nor with the torturers, nor with the United States, nor with Russia. Its position is exactly that of those who, in conjunction with the terrorists, then repeated in the squares and classrooms: neither with the BRs nor with the State. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] We are with the State and with freedom, and we would like the Government to be. We are with those Italians, dear colleagues of the League: all the Italian communities and Italian associations in Venezuela have asked their motherland to take sides. [[Applause from Senator Alderisi.]] First the Italians, is it still valid today or not? If so, the Italians ask us to take a position, not to be anonymous and wash our hands like Pontius Pilate. In your resolution - which I hope, at least here, you will change in this House - you will in fact recognize the Supreme Court of Justice, created by the dictator Maduro to usurp the powers of the National Assembly, the only Parliament freely elected and recognized by Italy and the European Union in Venezuela. In the device of your resolution you can even recognize the Supreme Court of Justice, that is, the organ of the dictatorship of drug traffickers who called a Guaidó usurper - as you stress here - because it calls for constitutional recognition in accordance with Article 233 of the Constitution. I address the representatives of Senator Salvini in this House: in this you also betrayed what you assured the Guaidó delegation yesterday, de facto taking the side of Maduro. Moreover, Minister Moavero Milanesi, you speak of humanitarian aid: how should Venezuela be reached if the dictator Maduro blocks them at the border? It is about credible free presidential elections: who should manage them? That dictator Maduro who, in the same motion for a resolution, called elected by a farce election? The same guy who made a farce election was supposed to run the new election? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] But what are you telling us in this House and the country? You're with the BRs! As President Casini said a moment ago, the interference already takes place, because for twenty years there have been Cuban doctors and military advisers in Venezuela, who manage its structure, since it is a puppet state of Cuban castrists today in the hands of international drug trafficking (and half of the drugs that arrive in Europe, in fact, comes from Venezuela). In addition to the castrists who rule Maduro's army, there are also Colombian guerrilla organizations, Colombian Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARC) and the National Liberation Army (ELN), which are Maduro's death squads: that is international interference! In the face of such international interference, what do you say? Who should guarantee free elections, if not the National Assembly which we, Italy and the European Union have recognised, and which expressed in Guaidó the interim President? Moreover, in the Montevideo document I understand that you do not quote a fundamental passage that Italy has signed: that of restoring the powers to the National Assembly, while recognising the criminal court that takes away the powers of the National Assembly. Are you dissociates? I am concerned about Venezuela, the Italian community, the two million Italians who had asked us for help and to whom we respond in this way. I am concerned because we are the only country in Europe, together with two other small entities that are now in the hands of other sovereignty: the Russian banks on a European island rather than the Chinese ports in a small country that prevent Cyprus and Greece from expressing themselves internationally. We can do that. Well, I am concerned because the European Parliament has made itself clear, almost all of the European Union has expressed itself equally clearly; 59 Free and sovereign countries have expressed themselves very clearly, our European partners, our traditional international partners have spoken for the National Assembly, for Guaidó and for credible free elections, managed by the National Assembly. If, instead, Italy is with the other part of the world in sabotaging Venezuela's freedom - because of sabotage - I am concerned about Venezuela and even more about the conditions to which you are leading our country. If you had personal dignity in relation to your own history, Minister, you would come here to conclude this debate with your resignation because you have in your hands the politics of the country, and you too have addressed someone higher in asking not to break, for the first time in our history, solidarity with the other countries of the Western Alliance, solidarity with other European countries, with Argentina and with our Italian community. You are taking a historical leap away from our country's politics, our positioning, our fundamental values. We don't tolerate this. Long live Venezuela, live Italy, at this point free and sovereign. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and the Senators Monti and Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u16	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u17	Mr President, foreign policy is a fundamental part of a country; it is a bit of its identity card: it describes the characteristics with which a country presents itself to the world. Italy is a country of which there is much desire in the world; in reality, the ability that has always had to sew, to be a point of reference not overpowering and prevaricating has always made our country a very sought after country, precisely because of the sensitivity and the way in which we have always related to international situations. But what role is Italy playing in the world today? Perhaps foreign policy does not weigh heavily; today I heard a Foreign Secretary say that foreign policy is words. In fact, you know well, Minister, that foreign policy is the reputation of a country. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] What is coming about the Venezuelan crisis is something very serious. In fact, we have heard divergent statements: on the one hand, a Vice Premier, Salvini, who from the beginning says "I am with Guaidò, I am against Maduro, the dictator"; on the other hand, another Vice Premier who says "we are equidistant," but in this equidistantity we cannot forget the conferences that in the last legislature the Movimento 5 Star Group did with the representatives of chavismo and Maduro. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Prime Minister Conte makes statements of balance, but in the meantime what happens? Spain, Germany, France, Great Britain - to indicate the main countries with which we normally have common positions - up to 19 European countries, take positions and say how they feel. 16.25 p.m. (Following PINOTTI). They say that there is an Assembly legitimated by the elections and that there is a Parliament that, with the interim President, must conduct this phase. Furthermore, Minister, you yourself said that the presidential elections were neither free nor transparent and were not recognized by the international community. In his report of 30 January, he reminded us that the situation was particularly difficult and he also said that we were always in favour of a European response to this crisis. That is true: you have participated and supported the work for the contact group, but it is also true - and if it is not, at least tell us in response - that Italy has held back the possibility that Europe would have a stronger shared position than the Venezuelan crisis. This is more political than the formulation and formation of the contact group. I remember the heartfelt appeal that interim president Guaidó addressed to Italy, saying: With deep dismay we do not understand the reasons of the Italian political position. We do not understand why the European country closest to us does not take a clear and clear position against the dictator Maduro and do not ask, forcefully, for free elections.............................................................................................................. Mr. Minister, I'll take you back to that question, because that's what we're asking ourselves: why? In Italy we understand your embarrassment and understand that, having the majority shareholders of the Government two positions in fact opposed, you come here and tell us a series of actions that are made and positions that are assumed, but the center and the juice of the speech, that is, where Italy stands, unfortunately cannot tell us. So the situation is becoming truly disgusting. As you mentioned, Minister, when you came to express your foreign policy direction, Italy always had lighthouses, namely Europeanism, the Atlantic Alliance, multilateralism and the importance of international bodies. So let's ask ourselves what they're thinking about us in the world. At the UN, we worked together to write the Global Compact and then we didn't support it. At NATO they find a Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation who does not know of an announcement made by the Minister for Defence regarding a withdrawal, of which NATO was not aware. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] In Europe - we, who have always been the most European - do not know where we are. Well, to our fellow citizens in Venezuela, to the Venezuelan community and to Venezuela we all say that there is also an Italy that knows where to stand and says it today in a resolution. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] We therefore ask the Government to support this position, because it can become the position of the whole of Italy. No more balancing: Venezuela can no longer wait. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Moavero Milanesi, just a few days ago we had listened to your information about the Venezuelan crisis and since then we have had to learn about the government's orientation from the newspapers, which have reported the differences - which we are no longer surprised by - between the two souls of the majority. Minister, you are in a very difficult position and you have all my sympathy and solidarity. It must not be at all easy to try to represent our country abroad, being punctually bypassed by the two vice presidents of the Council of Ministers, Di Maio and Salvini, who do not lose an opportunity to say their opinion on everything, even the winner of the Sanremo Festival. Today we have listened carefully to his words, convinced that the evolution of the situation in Venezuela needs more than ever strong and authoritative diplomatic action of our country. The President of the Republic, who clearly expressed the need for the Government to speak with a single voice and a clear position, did not serve any purpose. Mr Moavero Milanesi, we ask you to take an international initiative and activate all diplomatic channels in order to arrive at a solution as soon as possible. We need new, free and fully democratic elections, so that the citizens of Venezuela can decide to whom to entrust the government of their country, in a framework in which all political parties, equally, can compete in electoral competition. On the other hand, unilateral interventions, ultimatums and threats of military action must be avoided, as unfortunately is happening, which aggravate an already critical situation, both politically and humanitarianly. The international community must support the Venezuelan people, not consume a geopolitical clash on them. We also believe that it is appropriate to encourage and support all the initiatives that propose dialogue between the parties, as indicated by Pope Francis, starting from the so-called Montevideo Mechanism, proposed by Mexico, Uruguay, Caribbean Community and supported by the Bishops' Conference of Latin America and the Venezuelan Church. Just as we would like the Government to strongly and firmly support the initiative of the International contact group, consisting of France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which, together with Mexico, Uruguay, Bolivia, Ecuador and Costa Rica, is working on a negotiating solution. The Venezuelan people are in very difficult conditions, aggravated by the climate and tensions of these weeks. In the two years of the state of emergency - said Amnesty International - security forces continued to resort to excessive and unnecessary use of force to disperse protests. Hundreds of people have been arbitrarily detained. Many cases of torture and other ill-treatment, including sexual violence, have been reported against demonstrators. The judicial system has once again been used to silence dissidents, including through recourse to military jurisdiction to prosecute civilians. Defenders of human rights have been at the center of harassment and intimidation, they have been raided into their homes. Living conditions in prisons have remained extremely harsh. The food and health crises have worsened, particularly affecting children, people with chronic diseases and pregnant women. This is the situation that has resigned Amnesty international. It is a situation that must be condemned. A real emergency is under way and Italy has the task of contributing with the immediate sending of humanitarian aid to address the scarcity of food, medicines and medical equipment to bring immediate support to those suffering, overcoming all political and diplomatic obstacles. Minister, I ask you again, as I did in my speech on 30 January, to work for the safety of over 100,000 Italians living in Venezuela; a huge, huge community, which we must not leave alone at this tragic moment. Let me conclude with one final remark: there is no room for electoral propaganda on issues such as international politics. You are the holder of our country's foreign policy; you are responsible for guiding our diplomacy in the world. Men and women of extraordinary competence who work in the interest of the country and who do not deserve to see their work disavowed by some sudden statement - which I would dare to call hilarious if there were no serious consequences on the credibility of our country - made by Ministers of our Government, Minister of Labour and Minister of the Interior. In a nutshell, Minister, make yourself heard, stand up for yourself. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Cucca]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u21	Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, in all sincerity, the Forza Italia Group considers it disconcerting to be here, once again, to discuss a matter that should see us all united and united in saying that Nicolás Maduro is a dictator, who is hungering and persecuting his people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and that, together with their own people, they are starving and persecuting the more than 120,000 Italians who have been living there and who have been making heartfelt appeals to the government of their country - your government - to defend them and you are washing your hands of them. The President of the Republic had to go on the field. President Mattarella said that there can be no uncertainty or hesitation in the choice between the popular will and the violence of force in the desperate attempt to bring this Government back to reason and reintegrate it in the wake of Italy's traditional foreign policy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Evidently it was not enough because, as other colleagues have rightly pointed out, your position is a circle-bottist and pilatesque, which recalls the position of those intellectuals who in the 1970s said: neither with the State, nor with the BR, thus doing an obvious favor to the Red Brigades. You can understand why the Movimento 5 Stars took a position of enormous and granite compactness around the dictator Maduro. The vice-premier Di Maio was quite clear in this sense; it was clear also the other vice-premier Matteo Salvini, who is of opposite sign: against Maduro and in favour of democracy. There's only one problem: he said it on social media. Social media aren't the government. We've got to get it in our head. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senators Casini and Ferrari]] The active policies of the Government go in the opposite direction to that indicated by Matteo Salvini. The elected Members of the European Parliament of the League voted together with the elected Members of the European Parliament of the 5 Star Movement on 31 January, not supporting the resolution of the European Parliament which legitimized the interim President, Mr Guaidó, a gentleman who is currently defending democracy and risking his life for this choice. They did not vote for it and four days later, when 19 European countries called an ultimatum to the dictator Maduro, Italy was not among those 19 countries. Minister, we were not among those countries because we were together with China, Bolivia, Cuba and Turkey, not exactly the lighthouses of democracy or the models of freedom. Mr President, I believe that politics, despite everything, is a serious matter. I believe that foreign policy is the highest and noblest form of politics and I cannot but ask who represents the Government at this time in this House who makes Italy's foreign policy at this historic stage. To whom are the choices of Italian foreign policy entrusted at this delicate moment? Certainly they cannot be attributed to the President-in-Office of the Council, which is also irrelevant in this case. Minister, with all respect and sympathy, in the Greek, human sense, but with political criticism of him, I say that I do not think that foreign policy can be attributed to his person. I fear that it can be attributed to that young, tanned and bald gentleman who is raging in the television studios of public and private television, day and night, who has no party office, who has not been elected by anyone, who does not formally represent the Government and who is explaining to us that Italy must leave NATO, must denounce the alliance with the United States as a coup country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister, I ask you: are you Alessandro Di Battista's ventriloquist? Is Alessandro Di Battista doing our country's foreign policy? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If that is the case, I ask the Legist friends: after devolution of Italy's economic policy to Movimento 5 Stars, do you also intend to devolve foreign policy? If you do, what will be seriously left to do to justify your presence in this embarrassing and embarrassing Government? [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u22	Mr President, the position of Brothers of Italy has already been widely explained by Senator Urso and in my brief speech I do not want to return to this. In fact, I would like to ask the whole House a minute's attention because Brothers of Italy will present a second motion for a resolution, not of a political nature, to protect our Italian community in Venezuela. We hope that on this resolution of common sense and which has no political connotation we will be able to find a broad consensus. These are proposals that the Fratelli d'Italia Group has presented several times, like the classic Chinese drop, on the occasion of the immigration and security decree, the budget law and the simplification decree; we tabled a motion a few days ago and now we are presenting a motion for a resolution. All this is aimed at protecting our Italian community and our Venezuelan compatriots of Italian origin. We recalled: there are 150,000 Italians in Venezuela and two million of our Venezuelan passport compatriots. But what we have not reminded all these people is that we are precluded from exercising our rights; and this because of the inadequacy of the consular network present in Venezuela and the administrative delays of all the practices that we take care of here in Italy. These are indications that come to us from the associations of our countrymen in Venezuela. I thank Ambassador Giulio Terzi, who is following all these steps with great attention and who has informed us step by step of a situation in which, in Venezuela, it is impossible to make an appointment at the consulate, both for Italians, and for Venezuelan compatriots who want to do so. Even a network of corruption of paid people has been created that grants appointments to the consulate. The first request that we make in this resolution, therefore, is to properly strengthen our staff in the Venezuelan consular network, so that our citizens and Venezuelan compatriots can turn decently to the consular network. The second request is to speed up the evaluation practices of the request for citizenship of those, of Italian origin but of Venezuelan passport, asks for the recognition of Italian citizenship. Even in this case, it is in fact impossible to submit the application, as very complicated documentation is required, that our compatriots cannot obtain and moreover, in all this, the response times are scandalous: two, three, five, six, seven years to know whether or not you have the right to Italian citizenship. The third request is that, in the mores of this, that is, until the practices of recognition of Italian citizenship are accelerated, a residence permit be granted to those who have already submitted an application for Italian citizenship, because everyone can think of it as they wish, whether it is right or not, but it is a fact that Italy has welcomed more than 600,000 immigrants from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Africa, granting to these hospitality, food and accommodation, while we are not granting even a simple residence permit, which would cost us zero, to our compatriots who are literally starving in Venezuela. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] In conclusion, these are the three simple points in our motion for a resolution: strengthening the consular network, speeding up the procedures for evaluating citizenship, granting residence permits to those who have already applied for citizenship and are awaiting a response. I therefore ask you to put aside the political divisions, because here it is only a matter of protecting our compatriots who suffer in Venezuela and who look to the Italian motherland hoping that they will not abandon them. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u23	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u24	Minister, you have presented us with a cold, bureaucratic communication, a late and soulless compromise that overlooks the essential political point: the recognition of President Guaidó, which is a condition for fulfilling the commitments you have made on behalf of the Government. His Government, ahinoi, has forgotten that Italy and Venezuela have always been bound by a common dream. It was the dream of discovering the New World that led Christopher Columbus to reach Venezuela. Columbus called it the land of grace, thinking that the immense breadth of the river was the gate to earth's paradise. And it was the dream and hope that led millions of Italians and Europeans to go to Venezuela, where they made roads, where they created families and were welcomed by the warmth and generosity of the Venezuelan people. Now that community is experiencing a double emergency: a humanitarian emergency, which has been well described by President Casini, and a political and democratic emergency, because democratic rules have long been broken in that great country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] And that's the point you don't want to recognize. I understand very well the situation that forces you to take a position of equidistantity, which mortifies what a great country must do. Foreign policy - said Senator Pinotti - is a fundamental weapon, and if a country deprives itself of foreign policy, it is as if it deprives itself of its right hand. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and Italy cannot deprive itself of its right hand and its role in the world. Then: recognition of Guaidó as interim President and return of powers to the Parliamentary Assembly, as indicated by the resolution adopted by a majority by the European Parliament, and as indicated by the position of almost all European countries. I cannot read this list, Minister, because in this list - my heart cries - our country is missing, Italy is missing! And this is the cause of ambiguity, hypocrisy, the lack of courage of this Government. I want to end by recalling your sense of responsibility. The position of the European Union, the Atlantic Alliance, freedom and democracy is clearly defined - we are still in time, despite the delay. Every attitude of indifference and cynicism is the opposite of that dream, of that love, of that hope; indeed, it is its shame. Italy is on the right side; it owes it to its history, it owes it to the people of a great country; it owes it to the Italian and European blood flowing through the veins of Latin America. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u25	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u26	Mr President, as we can hear, they are always used to repeating: the European Union. Here, perhaps for the first time the Italian Government, not before but now, has taken a very precise position. Perhaps you were and are used to saying: "If everyone does so, it is right to do so." Maybe it's good to stand out from time to time. Are we a sovereign people and a sovereign country, yes or no? The Minister was very clear. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Yeah, that was very clear. What have you been doing for the past five years? But what have you done with your foreign policy? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have been extremely clear and have set as the very first objective the protection of the Venezuelan people: that is what we are interested in. We are interested in Italian citizens living there. And the Minister was very clear in his statements when he said that we are vehemently calling for new presidential elections. As we have also said in the motion for a resolution: we have written that all 28 states have called for new presidential elections. And if they are not there, we have asked for the application of Article 233 of the Venezuelan Constitution. So we wrote it down, we didn't make anything up. However, I reply to all of you with a report just published by the ANSA, which should be read carefully: We thank the Italian people, Parliament, President Mattarella and Minister Moavero for supporting the request for presidential elections as soon as possible and the recognition of the National Assembly as the only legitimate body in Venezuela. You know who said that? Not Manuel Bishops, but the representative in Italy of Guaidó, who will be at the Commission tomorrow. Thank you all and good work. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from Group L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Wolf]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u27	Senator Biasotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u28	Minister, I share what you have said - as I believe all of you - the reference to Venezuela's terrible humanitarian, institutional and economic situation. This situation, however, was not determined by chance, because there was an earthquake or a great flood: it occurred because there was before Chávez and after Maduro and this is a fact. I am surprised then, not so much about the statement of the colleague of the League, but about what you said, because I went to see your resume and you are a very valuable person. I remember that, when you were appointed Minister, I was really happy, especially in comparison with the other Ministers, who I consider to be almost all really incompetent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Having said that, Minister, with all due respect for your resume, I do not know how you can accept the things you have said. How do you do that, Minister? Other more authoritative colleagues like Senators Casini and Bonino have already said this: how can you accept that Italy is the only one among 59 industrialized countries to have a different position? How can you accept that we were the only country to block a resolution in Europe? Neither did Greece, who had decided to join Maduro, but who then withdrew his opposition. We, on the other hand, have prevented a resolution. How can you accept a State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs like Di Stefano who says he doesn't understand this quote? Minister, on 24 January, the day after Juan Guaidó proclaimed himself President of Venezuela - on which I will then speak - we asked to be able to listen to her, to be able to discuss, reason and vote. We've been prevented. Minister, we have not been able to see you for days: you came to the Senate on 30 January and only today can we legitimately vote, as is right for a Parliament to do, on such an important issue of foreign policy as the one we are discussing. This is not acceptable, Minister. How can we accept that Guaidó is not the legitimate President of Venezuela? Rule 233, which was improperly quoted by my previous colleague, provides that, in the event of non-elections, the legitimate interim President is the President of the National Assembly whom you yourself recognised. Then we must absolutely recognize Guaidó as interim President because, either here or there, Minister: you teach me that you cannot stand here and there, on the side and on the back. You can't. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If it is true that the elections in Maduro have been distorted, it must be ignored and, if it is true that Guaidó has been legitimately voted, it must be recognized: there can be no other way than this. I don't know how you can not listen to the Venetian Italians: bring me someone who says he is with Maduro; he is not there. But will there be a reason no one is with Maduro, especially those who are no longer in Venezuela? In Genoa there are many Venezuelans who have had to escape and have explained to me how the situation is there, it is absolutely not democratic. Minister, you cannot be with a dictator, because you have not taken a stand against it and that is not acceptable. A person like you then! The President of the Republic has written that he wants Italy to have no uncertainty, so I wonder what he will tell him when he sees him, since you have tabled a resolution that, but Greece, not even the last country in the world could support. Mr Minister, I do not ask for your resignation as others have, but a whisper of pride from a character like you would have liked it, because we have made ourselves recognized for internal politics and they are our problems, we have done harakiri and patience, but in foreign policy we must be recognized as a strategic nation, important, founder of the European Community. Italy is full of history, culture and today we come out saying that there is an emergency and that we condemn all kinds of violence. Violence, however, condemns itself by disowning Maduro, who is a violent dictator [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Only in that way is there no violence, because then Maduro, as President Casini has said, will be afraid of the consequences of the international court; if we say nothing, instead, we hold a dictatorial position. From Italy we expect everything, anything, but not a position like the one you have expressed [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u29	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u30	Mr President, contrary to what happened in the past, when Italy joined ultimatums and criminal wars that were to bring peace and democracy and instead sowed only death and destruction, Italy chose, with the good company of the United Nation and Pope Francis, the line of non-interference, dialogue and peace. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] (16.59) (Ferrara followed). Who for false reasons of propaganda continues to tell us that we are irresponsible and that we should be ashamed, does he have the courage to make the same ridiculous accusations to Pope Francis and the UN? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shameful and irresponsible are those who, today and yesterday, stand up to global defenders of democracy and freedom, blowing on fire a crisis that risks turning into yet another tragic experience of exporting democracy. It should be clear to anyone who is in good faith that not recognizing the Guaidó Presidency does not mean supporting Maduro: it means firmly supporting the path of dialogue, in order to prevent a situation that, in the absence of agreement between the parties, risks leading Venezuela not to free elections, democracy and well-being, but rather to a civil war and perhaps to an external military intervention that would condemn Venezuelans to a hell in Iraq or Libya style. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this Chamber too, the feeling is that many people deliberately have a short memory. Everyone seems to want to remove the dramatic wars waged in the last decades in the name of democracy, preceded by global press campaigns against the dictator in turn, based on false, distorted or partial news, which, however, touched the hearts and minds of world public opinion, in order to justify the absolute necessity of yet another humanitarian war, to use an obscene Orwellian term coined twenty years ago by Massimo D'Alema. In 2001 it was said that Bin Laden was hidden in Afghanistan by the Taliban; it was not true, he was in Pakistan and now after eighteen years he is negotiating with the Taliban for the withdrawal of troops and we Italians for this war spent almost 8 billion and lost 54 soldiers to whom my memory goes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Iraq, 2003: Do you remember Colin Powel's test tube at the UN? Weapons of mass destruction weren't there. Libya 2011, a country with which we had recently signed a treaty of friendship (and luckily it was of friendship, dear colleagues of Forza Italia). The attack on Libya has generated that uncontrolled immigration, which we are managing alone, in the indifference of those European partners who wanted war. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then Syria, in 2011, with Assad, suddenly became a dangerous dictator after, a few months earlier, President Napolitano on his visit to Damascus had called it an example of secularism and openness. Millions have been the dead of these humanitarian wars, but based on fake news. These to which I have just referred are facts, not opinions that must make us think about what might happen in Venezuela. Today, in Venezuela, the mass media re-propose the same schemes, with the dictator starving and repressing his population, but without mentioning the very harsh economic sanctions that have triggered the ongoing humanitarian crisis or the destabilising foreign interference in support of internal subversion, and real terrorist acts. Why aren't we referring to the fact that the oil price in 2014 was $100 per barrel and in 2015 it fell to $40? Venezuela has the largest oil reserves in the world. But not only oil: also coltan, gold and diamonds. You've been trying to destabilize this country for years. Frankly, looking at recent conflicts, do you allow me to suspect that oil and geopolitics are the real reasons for the attention to Venezuela? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear supporters of Venezuela, if you really want the good of the people, avoid pushing the country towards civil war. For once learn from your mistakes and we all work together to prevent Venezuela from becoming the Libya of Latin America. Contrary to the past, when the Italian governments uncritically followed the flock, following the orders of stables, even when opposed to our national interests, today the Italian Government is responsibly trying to avert the worst to the last, continuing to work to promote dialogue between the parties, to arrive at an agreement and a political and peaceful solution. The deployments in Venezuela are clear, you are already ready to divide your members. Having a position of non-interference means, probably, not to sit at this gruesome banquet. But the time has come for our country to have the courage to stand on the right side of history. The 5 Star Movimento is convinced that, for the good of Venezuelans and our fellow citizens living in Venezuela, the solution is not to accentuate the divisions, throwing gasoline on the fire, but to try to reconcile the parties and to start a process that allows Venezuelans, not others, to decide their future. Attention: they must really be free to decide, without blackmailing as sanctions and other types of external pressure are. We are making change in all areas. We are also doing so in this sensitive and complex area of foreign policy. And here I really feel like thanking the government. Our country, seventy years after the end of the Second World War, has the right to have autonomy and maturity in decision making. Unfortunately, I have once again found Europe's position to be appalled. If this Union wants to make sense, it should start to have a single voice, a mature and independent voice. Europe's role is crucial to mitigate the growing confrontation between Russia and the US and to establish a fruitful relationship with China. A new idea of international politics, based not on existing social Darwinism between States, but on cooperation and brotherhood, should start from Europe. I conclude by saying that the Movimento 5 Stars has free hands, because it is the spokesperson of the citizens and not of economic and financial powers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have always been for the sacred principle of non-interference, for multilateralism and for the self-determination of peoples. We are neither with Maduro nor with Guaidó. We are with the Venezuelan people, who must be free to choose who governs them. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u31	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators, No 2, Senator Marcucci and other senators, No 3, Senator Bernini and other senators, No 4, Senator Ciriani and other senators, No 5, Senator Fazzolari and other senators, No 6, Senator De Petris and other senators, and No 7, Senator Casini and other senators. Mr Moavero Milanesi, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u32	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I would like to thank you for the important debate both in terms of ideas and - of course - in criticism, which are part of our democracy and, as such, are valuable. The mandate received here today, before you, is to represent the position of the Government, which as such I have summarized, from which also the mention of elements that may appear obvious, but which serve to complete and give the full picture of the position of the Executive, given the important occasion in which we find ourselves. I think that, given the news we have and the images we see, it is essential to reiterate the importance of ensuring the influx of basic humanitarian aid for the population of Venezuela. I think it is important to clarify that we are against all kinds of violence and, above all, any risk of degeneration and increase of the violent situation which, given the dramatic events we are witnessing, could also result in civil war. To get out of any doubt about some points that have been underlined, the Government does not recognize the legitimacy of Nicolás Maduro as President of Venezuela. He did not do so symbolically, through the not sending of the ambassador to Caracas at the time of the settlement, and he did not do so on any kind of occasion. These elections were considered and deemed not legitimate by Italy, as by the rest of the international community. This is why the Government, together with many other countries, calls for new elections and asks for them quickly. This is why, on the other hand, the Government recognises - as such have also been recognised by international observers - the full legitimacy of the elections to the National Assembly and, therefore, the full legitimacy of the Venezuelan Parliament. Going to new elections in a very difficult context (to use a euphemism), dramatic and tragic like that of Venezuela is a complex operation, impervious and high risk, just for everything that is happening and that could possibly happen, even very negative. That is why the action of the Government, within the framework of the multilateral contacts and the various groups in which we participated, went in the following direction, which I had mentioned during the introductory speech, but which is still underline to make it clear. The International Contact Group, which met for the first time in Montevideo, is the only Group that brings together countries from both Latin America and Europe. (17.11) (Following Mr Moavero Milanesi, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation). Beyond the United Nations (which brings together all the countries of the world and whose intervention, to be clear, the Government hopes as facilitator and resolver of the path that will lead out of the crisis in Venezuela), the International Contact Group is the only Group that brings together Countries of the two continents. This group identified a path that must lead to elections and that includes both political (remembering the mission of the two co-presidents) and technical and assistance missions. This path is part of the framework to which I referred at the beginning of the speech, namely a lack of recognition of the legitimacy of Nicolás Maduro's Presidency and full recognition of the legitimacy of the National Assembly. We believe that this path that wants to give a chance to dialogue and a possible reconciliation that allows the Venezuelan people to speak democratically is valid. This is the position I have tried to express to you on behalf of the Italian Government. At the same time, the emphasis on the importance of intervening in relation to the serious humanitarian emergency underlines the concern towards the community of our compatriots who are resident in Venezuela and the community of Italian origin. In this regard, I would also like to say that the elements that have been pointed out and underlined in order to increase and increase the effectiveness of consular activity in Venezuela for assistance to its fellow countrymen will be taken absolutely into account. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u33	I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u34	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I welcome the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. I also object to all the other motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u35	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u38	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am disturbing as little as possible since I have just spoken. All I have to say is that I am sorry that there is this bureaucratic communication from the Government which gives an opinion against all resolutions, not least because I believe that our work in this House over all these weeks would have deserved more attention and consideration from a Government of which, moreover, people, like Mr Merlo, who are well aware of the drama of our fellow countrymen in Venezuela, seem to me that Mr Merlo has always been sensitive in the past and I hope that he is also aware of it now. I want to say one thing, and I do so affectionately, to the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee: today we have at least realized that we do not recognize the Maduro Government so that the Deputy Minister who will come tomorrow to the Foreign Affairs Committee is an abuser. Frankly, I do not know what it is, so I will abstain from attending the sitting precisely because, at least on this, the Minister also said that he does not recognize the Government of Maduro. It is a consideration that was obvious to me but it has been reiterated for which it meant. After that, what do you want me to say? I feel that we are talking about the mediation position of international bodies. Sorry, I think there's a lack of information and knowledge. You saw the Holy Father's reaction when he was asked if he had received Maduro's letter: he said he has not yet opened it. In my opinion, that answer is more indicative of any consideration we can make here. 17.16 (Following CASINI) The Venezuelan Bishops' Conference expressed a position without whether or not it is close to the Venezuelan Parliament. Everything else belongs to a smoke screen: we can throw as many as we want but reality is more significant. The same is true of what happened at international level. In Europe, we are the first country to take responsibility for vetoing the common position adopted by the great European countries. I want to say thank you to the Presidents of the Republic or the Council of Germany, France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Poland and other European countries who have had that whisper of dignity that unfortunately has been lacking in our country. I understand that the Government is willing to follow the problems of the Italian community: this is also pleasing, because I have seen that the contributions we had allocated in the past have disappeared from the law of stability. Another lie, then, was told by that colleague who asked a moment ago: but what have you done in the past? [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP.]] We are the first and only Parliament which, a year and a half ago, took an official position on this point, demonstrating that you should tell us that we were better at it, rather than saying that we did nothing, because of your lack of information. There is a set of forgery and inability to draw on the information stock that also includes the Internet. In front of all this, what do you want me to say? (17.18) (Following CASINI). I raise my hands, but I bear a witness of which I am amply convinced, with the Group for the Autonomies and with my colleagues who wanted to sign the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, starting with President Monti, Senator Bonino and the illustrious Senator Zanda: we are conducting an ideal battle, which perhaps is no longer fashionable; it may be, but if we do not return to the unpopular battles, simply telling and only the truth, we will not recover that decorum and that reputation that Italy has always had in the world. Finally, I saw the whole debate and all the speeches, among which I would like to mention in particular those of Senator Pittella and Senator Pinotti. In my opinion, they have said things that represent the sentiment of this House, a common feeling for those who, passionately, have visited hundreds of Italian communities abroad and feel the value of foreign policy. If "Paris is worth a mass," probably a government and an armchair are also worth the betrayal of the principles: I don't know and I don't care, but Italy has always had a decent foreign policy; today we lost it on the street, but I hope it is just a moment. But of course I am concerned, considering the statement by Minister Thirty on Afghanistan, without the Minister of Foreign Affairs knowing anything about it, or the disputes with the countries of half the world from France. I have seen that the mayor of Nice has summoned a demonstration of solidarity in the name of Italian-French friendship: I will be there with him, convinced that we can no longer reopen chapters of war between European countries that history has surpassed. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] We missed the opportunity with Venezuela: we continue our battle of witness alongside our Italians who are there and suffer. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we too continue our ideal battle, which began a year and a half ago, when we all began to pray for work at the level of the international community, which was then divided and which is even more so today, to support strong diplomatic action (and, if it had been undertaken then, perhaps we would not be in this situation). We have been very well documented over the past few months and have worked hard, continuing to support the positions of those who have always proposed dialogue everywhere. There is a very high risk that the crisis will lead to a civil war: that is the question before us. As the content of our resolution reveals, therefore, we are in the field of supporting all initiatives that involve a diplomatic effort to start the country to reconciliation. In particular - as the Minister has also said, although there is no trace of it in your resolution - we ask to support the initiative of the International contact group, composed of countries that have recognized and others that have not recognized: from France to Germany, from Mexico to Bolivia, Ecuador are working to find a diplomatic solution. The government is committed to preventing unilateral interventions and to preventing degeneration in a civil war. In addition, support humanitarian aid. For all these reasons, we call for the Government to be a diligent part of this diplomatic effort. We will therefore vote in favour of our resolution, which has also been adopted by other Members, and against all the others. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u44	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I am sorry that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has quickly left the Chamber; I hope he has done so in order to draw the consequences, since before leaving he has said without a shadow of a doubt, and repeated several times - I would like Members to re-read the two statements - that Italy disowns the Government of Maduro while giving full recognition to the National Assembly. It is a pity that the majority resolution does not give this mandate to the government at all. Too bad that the mandate to the government gives it other resolutions on which instead the Minister, disassociating himself from his words, as well as from the commitments assumed by the minister of the interior Salvini, says exactly the opposite. Well, I believe and hope that Minister Moavero Milanesi, a serious and credible person, will do what another Minister for Foreign Affairs has done before him - I would like to address President Monti as he was the Minister for Foreign Affairs of his own country. Government - which, when it did not agree with the Government's decision to return the two Italian Maròs to India, immediately after it left the Chamber, as Minister Moavero Milanesi did, to resign. Now, instead, you are delivering two million Italians who ask you for help from the dictator Maduro. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] I did not feel solidarity on your part nor did you mention the documents of the Italian community. History has given reason to Minister Terzi, and not to those who then handed over the Maròs to India. I am sorry for what is happening in this House and I sincerely do not understand how there can be a majority force that always takes sides, even in today's quotations, to protect every dictator. You proudly marked the positions of dictatorial countries. But Italy is not yet a dictatorial country, even though you have arrived to the government, and in Venezuela it is not about exporting democracy - learn history - but about restoring the democracy that has been removed from the military of Maduro. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] There is no sanction against Venezuela: study it sometime! The sanctions are only for some individuals who have been guilty of crimes against humanity or of drug trafficking, and you are with the drug dealer or of those who have been guilty of crimes against humanity. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] It is not Venezuela, which exports oil to the United States. I repeat: there are no sanctions against Venezuela, but only against some individuals who have been guilty of crime or drug trafficking. We wonder why you're with them. The position that the majority will express is not at all shared - I address my colleague Manuel Vescovi - by the delegation of Guaidó, who recently made a statement harshly condemning the fake neutrality of the Italian Government: appropriately quotes the colleague Guaidó's statements. That is why we believe that it would have been useful to respond to the appeal of the Italian community and to stand up like all other free and democratic nations. We are with the free and democratic nations, not dictators and authoritarian states, who for their oil interests buy oil from Venezuela at low prices, which goes to China, Russia and will soon go to Turkey. The dictator is buying the vote and veto of those countries and selling the freedom of his people. 300,000 children are undernourished, who risk malformations for malnutrition and the dictator Maduro forbids humanitarian aid to enter his country. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Do you also want them in Italy? It is certain - we understand - with your policy, but you will not succeed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Urso. Mr Urso (FdI). For these reasons we shall vote in favour of all the motions that are clearly expressed for the recognition of the National Assembly, so that it can call for free and democratic presidential elections, and not for that of the Government, which says exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u47	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I want to say this at the beginning of my speech, with great clarity: we will not vote on any resolution which does not clearly provide for the recognition of Guaidó and the National Assembly as the only body capable of leading to elections. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Casini and Vitali]] We want to say that clearly and immediately. The first reason is that there is a humanitarian emergency. The newspapers and the media don't tell us, but our countrymen tell us, when they come to visit us, they tell us on the phone or with e-mails. They do so in every way, in order to reach not only the opposition, but also the representatives of the government, who are evidently deaf. The aid - as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has also said in one of his passages - although not clearly, is given today with multilateral funds and funds from our country. The funds of our country and non-governmental organizations are obviously not enough: the most massive funds come from international organizations, in particular from the United Nations system, which only a few hours ago was blocked by the Russian foreign minister, Lavrov, who said that aid in that country must not come, because the United States is carrying out another type of military action. On the other hand Maduro - it has been seen, with eloquent images, that speak more than many statements - has blocked the bridges with the billets, that have been put in the middle so as not to get humanitarian aid, because he has an interest in keeping millions of people by the throat and to scan with the dropper the aid (the few who still remain, for those who have the card in order to be able to access the goods of first necessity). This is the reality of an exhausted Venezuela, a country that would instead be rich in raw materials and could have a prosperous development, but that was kept in conditions of poverty and backwardness by its leader, Maduro. We can no longer wait, therefore, and if you do not want to listen to the opposition, if you do not want to listen to the delegation we have met today and tomorrow we will also meet officially in the Foreign Affairs Committee, listen at least to the Venezuelan community, that is what our fellow countrymen say. We cannot wait any longer, and Parliament needs an answer on this too. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You don't need tweets and statements. We also tell the leader of the League, who says something about social media, but gives a different mandate to his own Group, which will not vote for the recognition of Guaidó and the National Assembly, but will just talk about free elections. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] International diplomacy is full of appeals of this kind: it is time to take it seriously! I shall then take up the words of Minister Moavero Milanesi, because I am referring to the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, who I imagine to express the position of the entire Italian Government. Referring to the election of Maduro in May last year, he said that the elections are affected by their correctness, legality and fairness and, therefore, do not attribute democratic legitimacy to those who would have won the election, namely Nicolás Maduro. We do not recognize it and therefore there must also be consequences in concrete acts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to ask the Presidency - I think and imagine that President Alberti Casalati will have to go further and reflect on this - if tomorrow we should meet officially within the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Migration, the Deputy Minister for European Affairs of a Government that we do not recognize. It is a serious diplomatic and political issue to which I also expect a clear position from the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The second consequence is that when one does not recognize a Government, one must indicate the way out. It is too convenient to say that we need the presidential election. The contact group has started working, but it is necessary to indicate how to start the transition and the way out can only be the recognition of the only body elected regularly: the National Assembly. I say this because in Latin America there are demonstrations, often and willingly, that fill the squares. The difference with other demonstrations is that opposition, protesters or Venezuelan yellow vests do not go to the streets: the president of the National Assembly, the only elected one, goes to the square. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the key difference, on which you have to reflect to make a decision as much as accomplished. The context would allow this, because it is clear that the situation has changed since last months. There are three new conditions: international pressure has multiplied. The European Union almost compactly, starting from the main countries, France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom, and the US states, have clearly said that the position can only be the recognition of the interim President of the National Assembly. And so it applies to the army, which is not granitic, which does not intervene. The concerns expressed by Senator Bonino in her speech last time are right. But it seems to me that it is holding; but how long will it do so? That is why it is important to strengthen international pressure. The other unpublished fact is the unity of opposition; it is not a matter taken for granted in Venezuela. There is a united front that recognizes in Guaidó the figure who must guide the transition, pursuant to Article 233 of the Venezuelan Constitution, not forever. Rule 233 says you must take them to the elections and summon them within 30 days. What is your fear of not recognizing him? [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is thirty days, a limited period, to go to new free elections. So what's the reason why you don't recognize him? People go down to the streets - even this is an unprecedented in Latin America - and they don't talk about civil war, they don't use violence, they only use peaceful methods. I was struck by the fact that the 5 Star Movement in particular - but in fact also the League, in support of it - recalls the non-recognition of Guaidó and the President of the National Assembly to the principle of non-interference. I read Di Maio's words, contained in a letter, which states that it is necessary for the Italian Government to maintain a line of neutrality and non-interference and for the Venezuelans to decide. I ask myself - and I ask you - whether it is Di Maio himself who, not later than a week ago, went to France to meet Christophe Chalencon, one of the toughest leaders of the yellow vests, who in an escalation of statements first hoped for the arrival of the generals in power and, then, the inevitable civil war. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If it were the same person, Di Maio himself, I would recommend a review of the principle of non-interference. We need more seriousness, because foreign policy really is the business card of a country with which we measure the reputation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And then this is the time to choose, to do it seriously and to stand on the side of liberal democracies. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u50	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my concern for the Venezuelan people and the many Italian citizens and descendants of the Italian citizens living in Venezuela. The violent clashes that have animated the last few weeks have seriously endangered the life and security of an entire country and the heavy institutional crisis risks falling on the citizens and economic activities of the same. This is the time not to use force or impose order from abroad, but to use diplomacy, rationality and calm, giving space to a peaceful dialogue, so that in Venezuela the people will return fully sovereign and the institutions will be respected in the performance of their respective roles. Without the resolution of the conflict between the powers of the State and without a popular legitimacy that passes from a free and democratic vote it will be impossible for the country to return united. Ladies and gentlemen, diplomacy teaches that calm and common sense always lead to a correct solution to every conflict. Consequently, we must respect the will of the people by applying the principle of non-interference in internal affairs, while condemning with force and determination all forms of dictatorship. Our objective, in addition to the condemnation of the deaths caused by the violent repression of the regime, must be to ensure that the Italian response to Venezuela is a bearer of peace and democracy and does not involve the risk of increasing conflicts. That is why we have a sacrosanct duty not to override the will of the majority of the sovereign people and to ensure that the vote of the future presidential elections - hoping that they will take place as soon as possible, so that the expression of the will of the sovereign people - is free and guided by correct and transparent procedures. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] History also teaches us that every regime, sooner or later, will have to deal with its people, because freedom of thought and dissent cannot be hindered by delegitimizing Parliament, which is the heart of democracy in the institutions, nor by manipulating electoral consultations. In conclusion, I believe that democracy is an expression of the legitimate power of the people. Therefore, our wish is that Venezuela can start again from democracy and, therefore, from a legitimate vote in immediacy, that it respects the will of the people by ending the suffering of the same guaranteeing peace, stability and security. Our commitment will be maximum for this objective to be achieved as soon as possible. Common sense commits us to be with the people and with those who support the people - and we know who supports the people in Venezuela today [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - and never with any form of dictatorship and, therefore, not with Maduro. Dear colleagues, may I ask a question? What happened to the UN, which is the ultimate expression of global foreign policy? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] What's your position? Have you never asked yourself this legitimate question to look for the real answer? Where's the UN? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I conclude by saying that in a statement Guaidó thanks the Italian Government and the Italian people, President Mattarella and Minister Moavero Milanesi for supporting the request for presidential elections as soon as possible and the recognition of the National Assembly as the only legitimate body in Venezuela. Italy knows which side it's on. We are truly on the side of the people. If that is not enough for you to understand the position of the Italian Government, we do not know what else to tell you. We are on the side of the people, who are sovereign. We're with the Venezuelan people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u53	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who left the Chamber, Minister for Relations with Parliament, who is still in the Chamber, we are not here to have an academic debate, to try to say something intelligent about Venezuela. Of course, that's why we're here, of course. But we are here above all to finally decide with a vote, after weeks that we ask for it, what is Italy's position on the situation in Venezuela, that is, what Italy does concretely about the situation in Venezuela; a country in which millions of citizens stand for democracy and freedom, in front of a regime that has a support that is increasingly thinning, but that has strong support, even if not total, in the armed forces, in that part of the armed forces colluded with drug trafficking. Well, we have to decide where we stand: if we want to be with those who demand freedom; if we want to be seriously with the National Assembly that by all the Groups - although, from what I understand, not everyone - in this House and also by the Italian Government is recognized as a legitimate body, and therefore to call elections according to the procedures laid down by the Constitution of Venezuela; if we want to be with the Italian citizens who are in Venezuela. According to data from the Italian embassy in Caracas, there are 160,000 Italian citizens registered in consulates, to which are added one and a half million or two million oriundi. We must decide whether to do what they ask us to do, or take an ambiguous position, which in its ambiguity brings an unexpected - but probably requested - aid to the Maduro regime. Well, after weeks of ambiguity, in which we have also heard that Italy was working for a common position of the European Union, we learn that it is only for Italy's intervention that the European Union has not taken a clear position on this: to recognize Juan Guaidó as interim President, with the task of leading to new elections. That's the point. This is what the European Union itself would have approved if it were not for the veto of Italy. We have also read today some valuable statements from Ministers, Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries, going in one direction, which is what we want. But what matters is what is said in the resolutions, what is said in the official documents, what is said in the international assembly. Italy has prevented the European Union from taking a position of real and concrete support for the institutionally correct move of the President of the National Assembly Juan Guaidó. We have before us a resolution proposed by the government majority which is formally ambiguous, but in fact very clear. It is very clear why, not taking sides on either side, at least formally, it takes the side of the strongest, of those who have and exercise the function of President, even after elections that we all recognize illegitimate, which has on its side the Armed Forces and the various secret police that have been established in Venezuela to persecute, incarcerate, kill outside of any legal procedure the opponents. The Organization of American States states that only since 2015 there have been 8,000 executions of Venezuelan citizens, including many of our Italian compatriots or abroad, killed outside of any judicial procedure; 18,000 arbitrary detentions (in other words, kidnappings in person). If you don't take sides, then you take the side of the strongest. If the attacker and the weak attacker stay outside, the attacker will win and the attacker will be massacred. The majority document shall also take into account the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice which declared the transitional statute voted by the National Assembly null and void. I would remind you that the Court of First Instance is the one that has exonerated Parliament, against any procedure provided for in the Constitution. But how do you consider such a document? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] It is a document of an illegitimate body that has decreed the death of democracy in Venezuela, at least in their hopes. Fortunately - thank God - there is a people that struggles and is not afraid; there are leaders who are not afraid and, despite the numerous incarcerations, executions and arbitrary detentions, continue to fight. For the rest, the majority motion for a resolution commits the Government to continue to act to protect the safety of our fellow countrymen resident in Venezuela. Very well, but the Government has said no to the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague Mr Fazzolari and my colleagues Mr Alderisi, Mr Fantetti and others from the Forza Italia Group, in which we ask to put in Italian consulates an adequate staff to meet the requests of our fellow citizens. So yes in words, but no in deeds. Then they ask to face the humanitarian emergency. As Minister Moavero Milanesi spoke, Nicolás Maduro said no to humanitarian aid, to prevent the entry of which he deployed the army on the border with Colombia. But how can we say that we are for humanitarian aid when we say nothing against such facts and not even quote them? Then the majority's motion for a resolution says that it condemns all forms of violence, repression and repression. Whose violence? Perhaps the violence of those villains of the opposition, as we heard in the last legislature say from the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] , when they said that there were many deaths in the street demonstrations, because of the opponents protesting a little too much. And then the motion for a resolution calls for new presidential elections, free elections etc. to be convened. But who has to summon them? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For the Italian Constitution, like the Venezuelan Constitution, they must be convened by the President. Who's the president? Is it Nicolás Maduro, elected with a farce election? Everyone says no, but in practice, if it is not said that the President of the National Assembly as well as President of the interim Republic Juan Guaidó must convene her, it is like not saying anything and giving space to Maduro, who in fact thanked him. Here we are in a situation where there is an isolated regime, which does not have the support of any country from which it is not embarrassing to receive it, which hoped to have help. The help comes from the Italian Government: shame! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] Shame! Our fellow countrymen risk their lives and we don't risk offending anyone. The vote is free; the Venezuela issue is not in the government contract, which seems superior to the Constitution. It is the conscience that is superior to the government contract! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] And so we also have the no to the motion for a resolution tabled by several opposition groups calling for recognition of the National Assembly as the only right to manage and lead to new elections. I wonder how this common understanding with the Government of Maduro, with the dictatorship of Maduro is possible. As for the origins of Venezuela's economic disaster, we have heard here blamed, by our colleague Senator of Movimento 5 Stars, for the fall in the price of oil. Yes, the problem is that Hugo Chávez, who has ruled since 1999 and to whose grave two years ago 5 Star MPs went to pay homage - among those present members of the government - has focused everything on oil; or rather, he has focused everything on what he called democratic redistribution of well-being from oil. In other words, it tripled the employees of the public administration and the employees of the oil company, which it has statified. Result: when oil, which has come to make up 98 percent of Venezuela's exports (when for Saudi Arabia it is only 77 percent), saw its price fall - since one could safely predict - Venezuela went hungry. Our countrymen, as well as the other Venezuelans, can't find food and drugs. Children are undernourished to the point where they feel their health is compromised throughout their lives. So, in the face of such a situation there is no ambiguity, there is no room for equidistance. We defend freedom and democracy in Venezuela, just as we defend it in Italy, where someone talks about abolishing representative democracy and, therefore, democracy. In Venezuela, as in Italy, we have always fought and fought for freedom and democracy and we will always do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Senator Casini groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u56	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to clarify some of the inaccuracies I have heard and some of the doubts that have been expressed. The 5 Star Movimento reaffirms with conviction its choice of neutral field in favor of a peaceful solution, in favour of the Venezuelan people, including the Italo-Veezuelans: we put the people at the center precisely because on the skin of these people we are playing a dirty and very dangerous game. A peaceful solution, through new free and credible presidential elections, is the long-term political objective on which we all agree here. But now it is necessary to focus on the short-term objective: to avoid violence, bloodshed, civil wars or, worse still, international interventions. The current divisions, both internal and international, lead to an inevitable clash and blow on the fire of a conflict that prevents us from achieving both objectives. We are certainly not the only ones who point the right way to dialogue: Pope Francis, Mexico and Uruguay, Switzerland and Norway, Japan and India and - not least - the United Nations itself support it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Iwobi, there's something new. At this moment it is urgent to overcome the dangerous Manichaean logic that I have heard so far from my colleague Malan - either with us or against us, or with Guaidó or Maduro - that we have already seen to produce tragedies on many occasions, that we know to be far from the interests of the Venezuelan people and subtlely blackmailing. We do not want and cannot stand up to judges of the legitimacy of one or the other, questionable for both - and I repeat - questionable for both. Only Venezuelans have the right and the duty to do so, expressing themselves as soon as possible in new free and credible presidential elections. The perching on irreconcilable positions, both of Maduro and Guaidó, shows that the interests at stake coincide with those not of the Venezuelan people, but of power. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Iwobi.]] Venezuelans cannot decide under the blackmail of sanctions, hunger and the lack of medicines and other essential goods: they agree. Only a people free from blackmail to be able to live decently can freely choose in free elections. We therefore urgently need to open a humanitarian corridor which will distribute these genres neatly, without creating a black market or any other blackmail. In this regard, we call on Maduro to ensure that, by reserving the legitimate - or not - right to control who and what enters his country, it facilitates as soon as possible the release of humanitarian aid stopped for days at the Colombian border. We also strongly call on Guaidó to welcome the repeated calls for dialogue and mediation from the European Union, the Vatican and the United Nations themselves. In particular, I would like to recall the technical mission that has been mentioned here and that will soon be sent to Caracas by the International Contact Group, promoted - let us remember - by the Italian Government, and I repeat promoted by the Italian Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today both contenders must demonstrate responsibility and common sense, otherwise tomorrow someone will have to take responsibility for it before the history and the people of Venezuela. If Guaidó and Maduro fail to resolve this stalemate, who better than the United Nations can and must play a role of mediation? It is news a few hours ago that the Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres - already said he was ready to mediate to resolve the crisis - reiterated in an interview with the foreign minister of Caracas, Jorge Arreaza, his offer of good offices to the two parties for the start of serious negotiations - here is the empiric solution - in order to help the country to get out of the current impasse for the benefit of the people of Venezuela, which remains - I repeat - at the centre. We hope that Maduro and Guaidó will take advantage of this precious opportunity and that the international community will recompense itself in the name of peace, doing everything to facilitate mediation. We are sure that Italy - as it has done so far - will continue to be the leader in Europe and at the United Nations in order to promote dialogue and a peaceful solution to the crisis. This is the commitment that we ask the Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi and the entire Government chaired by Giuseppe Conte. That is why, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of the motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u57	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I call on Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Fazzolari and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Casini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This led to the conclusion of communications from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u59	You have the right to do so. First, however, I would like to ask those Members who have to leave the Chamber to do so by respecting the colleague who is intervening. (Brusio). Colleagues, I politely ask you to cooperate so that we can finish our work by respecting those who are intervening. Whoever has to go away, do it in silence. Senator Fedeli, you now have the power to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u60	Mr President, I think it is important to say a few things in this House. Against the mayor of Lissone Concetta Monguzzi, rea of having reported on Facebook information about a conference on asylum seekers, a comment has been posted that suggests to shoot her in the head. My colleague, Monica Cirinna, who had expressed her opinion on Mr Salvini's policies on the substance of political issues, has been accused of being insulted, offended, and irrepeatable threats in this House. And again for a political commentary on a post by Alessandro Di Battista, Senator Caterina Bini was overshadowed by equally irreferible, violent, masculine insults, unfortunately by men and women. And Tatiana Rojc was heavily targeted at her origins, after the note in which she criticized the Government for not having approved the amendments to protect the representation in Parliament of the Slovenian minority. These are insults, insults and very serious threats that exude a blind, violent and destructive hatred, which affects not only the lives of individual people, but also the quality of relations in this institution, within the Senate! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] Who's really behind those keyboards? Who are the women and men, young and old, of every part of Italy? It would be comforting - but it is not - to know that they are all fakes, fake profiles generated by machines that generate, automatically, insulting messages, sexists and, on many other occasions, xenophobic, homophobic, anti-Semitic, racist, as in the case of insults against Tatiana. On the contrary, unfortunately, there are people in the flesh, who are poisoned by the constant messages of hatred and delegitimization, by the continuous attacks reserved for those who think differently, for those who have a different skin color and a different sexual orientation from their own. The root of all this, unfortunately, Mr President, is always the same: lack of respect, rejection of the freedom and dignity of every person; rejection of diversity, which is always perceived as dangerous, rather than as richness and respect for our humanity, rather than as a choice of democratic, free and respectful confrontation. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] In my opinion, it is good for the victims of these violence by social media to proceed through the legal channels, to react, to denounce. But we are talking about cases, including our own senators, for which it would be worthwhile, Mr President, for this House to choose, through a debate in the Presidency Council, to address this issue and to see how to give back responsibility to those who belong to this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must know, above all, that they are unleashed in the pages of those who are today representing the people and citizens in this House. I think of those who do not intervene on their social media, even having political responsibility, the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] So I turn to the women and men of this House to all of them, to tell them that sitting in this House also means being able to refuse, starting from ourselves, the language of hatred, fakes, and to be able to exactly compare in a serious and legitimate way. We cannot allow this to happen, because it is our function and our responsibility towards ourselves, but also towards the country and the young generations, who find themselves living, even within social networks, a language that also leads to heavy, very heavy consequences. You know that incitement to social hatred, verbal violence, aggression and social defamation is the worst policy that can be expressed. This is a dangerous trend, which we should all fight and stop together. Let's start with each and every one of us to do it. Finally, Mr President, let us all remember that each of us is the one who communicates. What we communicate represents us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us remember that words have small or large consequences and - at times - very serious consequences for the younger generations. There are girls who commit suicide because of the hatred they use on the net. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] It is therefore a matter of defamation. There is one thing that I want to reiterate in this House and that applies to everyone: ideas can be discussed, but people must be respected. You can't turn people into enemies by tearing down people who have different opinions. This is a commitment that we must all make. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I call to responsibility those who do not control their social media through political responsibility. Attention, because the consequences are serious. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u61	Senator Fedeli, I've given you more time because I think the subject is absolutely important. The thing I would like is that there was a unity of intent on the part of everyone, because as you spoke, I was given a kind comment that said: I hope I won't meet you in one of your skilful rallies like you, because I'd get on stage and throw you downstairs, you ugly bitch. I therefore believe that the problem in question sees us all united and that the invitation must be addressed to everyone, because it is a situation that we suffer outside of political membership. Senator Fedeli, I allowed you to express yourself even beyond the time allowed because I completely share the wish to lower everyone's tones. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Masini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u63	Senator Faithful, it's not customary to give you the word again, but I think it's human.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u65	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak because you commented. I would like to remind this House that we have always spoken on this issue. You can look at the differences between people who use language on social media in a certain way and those who use it in another way. I don't think I belong to those who make certain choices. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u68	BITI (PD). Mr President, it is an honour and an emotion to intervene in this House to celebrate the beautiful event that took place yesterday in Florence. As many of you will know, the President of the Republic has come to Florence not only for the celebration of the seventeenth-century anniversary of the Institute of the Innocents, which I have already had occasion to remember in this Chamber last week, but also for the inauguration of the T2 tram in Florence. Mr President, on 14 February 2010 we inaugurated in Florence line T1 (and a few months ago its continuation in another important piece of town) and now we are opening line T2. In nine years - obviously with several problems that I do not deny and in which the Florentines have shown patience for which I thank them - we have realized three tram lines that constitute an exceptional work. I thank the city administrations who for many years have thought of the tram as a means of the present and the future to move around Florence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was wonderful to read the comments of the people who wrote that at last it seems to be in Europe, in a city of all European effect. It was exciting to have the President of the Republic there, because sustainability and transport on iron, accompanied by many other infrastructures and an implementation of local public transport, are for us the goal to reach for a Florence that looks to its history, but - above all - to the future of its citizens. In all this, I am sorry - it is sorry to me that I was present - to see Minister Toninelli who did not say a word of congratulations, approval and joy at that time and that - again - he did not know how to silence later, to say - also speaking of the airport - that the TAV in Florence, as in all other areas in general, is a work that must not be done and that does not interest this Government. Florence shows once again that - instead - the works are useful and the infrastructures are economy, development of the territories and, above all, a look forward on the future. We wonder if the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport denies himself that he wants to make important infrastructure such as those that were inaugurated yesterday. I was hoping you could see how important they are there and see a far-sighted example of what other administrations have been able to do. Let's hope that, perhaps coming back, he can understand and deepen a theme that is strategic for us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u71	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to speak to the House about the serious situation which has been going on for a week in Sardinia. The Sardinian farmers are implementing a resounding form of protest to protect their activities, but I would say rather to protect their dignity and protect the dignity of their work: they are pouring hundreds if not thousands of liters of milk every day, the fruit of their work, along the streets of Sardinia. They are basically blocking their production, the production of sheep's milk, because of the price of the milk itself that has reached the historical minimum of 60 cents per litre. We went back dozens of years because this price had been set at least twenty-five years ago. If you think that a bottle of mineral water costs 70 cents you understand that the price of 60 cents per litre for milk is far from covering even the production costs and producers have no more than living and supporting their families in the face of an activity that imposes a very hard life, based on daily work and continuous resistance. Allow me to remind you that sheep do not know holidays, do not know Christmas and Easter and farmers must follow them in everyday life to make ends meet and do their work properly. Sardinia has about 12,000 productive enterprises and there are about 3 million sheep compared to 1.6 million inhabitants. We can therefore say that the sector is a fundamental part of the Sardinian economy which will suffer catastrophic effects from the crisis that the sector is going through. The demonstrations are multiplying from day to day and the whole population is showing solidarity with the Sardinian shepherds. Today the city of Nuoro has stopped completely: all activities have been blocked. I therefore believe it is necessary to show solidarity on my part too, and I believe of all those who care about the fate of Sardinia, and to hope for an immediate intervention by the Government to give back to the work of the shepherds and to the shepherds themselves the dignity they deserve. On the other hand, since isolated acts of violence have been carried out, I also hope that those responsible will be immediately isolated and in this sense I ask the Minister of the Interior to intervene to ensure that public order is maintained constantly, isolating these few people who are disturbing an extraordinary and extremely important activity, a protest activity that has now taken on national importance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fenu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u74	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I speak only to report an episode of news that has left us extremely impressed, and also shocked, happened in Bellusco in the province of Monza and Brianza where a city councilman, who is the leader of the North League and former candidate mayor, hit with a warhead a thirteen-year-old, fractured his nasal septum, and apostrophandone with racist insults two more. The investigation is ongoing, moreover the city councilman admitted to having accomplished the fact, apologizing. Now, I wonder if the excuses can be sufficient, if this sense of impunity is not excessive, Mr President, because I think that no adult can feel entitled to raise his hands or insult children and, in general, an administrator and a person in an institutional position should be even less so, because perhaps his behavior should be an example. I repeat that we are not justiceists with anyone and that our intervention is absolutely educational. However, we do not know that there has been any solidarity with the boy in question by that same Minister of the Interior who, not later than some time ago, had expressed solidarity on Twitter and social media to a kitten thrown out of the window by an excessively quarrelsome couple, an episode that always occurred in the province of Monza and Brianza. Nor does it appear to us that the political force I have mentioned has taken action or has dissociated itself from the attitudes of their exponent and party companion. I believe that, precisely because of shared action also on how we are in the institutions and on the role of the adult in today's society, an intervention would be useful and welcome. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u77	Mr Grimani (PD). Mr President, in my speech at the end of the sitting I would like to mention the figure of Giancarlo Comastri, Senator of the Republic elected in Umbria at the College of Foligno and Spoleto in the ninth legislature, from 1984 to 1987, who died last week at the age of seventy-nine. A man of extraordinary moral standing, Giancarlo divided his public life among his passions: politics, health care, hunting and sport. It is necessary to remember the love he had for his hometown, Spoleto, of which he was several times administrator of the left-wing juntas in the 1970s, up to the most recent experiences with the junta Brunini in 2004-2005. He must be awarded a recognition for his commitment in the field of public health, of which he has been a hard defender and for which he has always fought with passion and pride, holding leading positions in the Hospital of Spoleto, as chief of the laboratory of analysis and health director, and in ASL 3 of Umbria, as health director and then commissioner. As elected of the Umbria Region, I intend to honour with this intervention the memory of a man who gave public institutions a very important contribution of commitment and civil passion. Paying homage to figures like that of Giancarlo Comastri allows to keep alive the credibility of the institutions as a place of civic commitment and moral uprightness. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lanzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u80	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is right to speak today in order to bring the voice of solidarity to the shepherds of my region, Sardinia, also in this House. The drama of the pastoral world is being consumed in the eyes of all and has as a strong and emblematic image the rivers of fresh milk that are poured along the streets, in the sewers and in the fields, because one prefers to throw it rather than hand it over to the processing industry in order to receive a consideration so small that it does not even cover the production costs. The protest, however, is also that of the farmers, who have distributed free milk in the countries and who are giving it to the community. This is a strong and fair protest, which denounces the collapse of the price of goat and sheep milk, dropped in the last few weeks under sixty cents per litre, while only two years ago it stood at 1.2 euros. This is a denunciation of the speculation of the food industry that obliges the shepherds to submit to unacceptable conditions and that, at the same time, buys Community raw material using it for products such as cheeses that then bear the Sardinian brand, thus undermining the basis the relaunch of a whole sector that has a significant impact on the economy of Sardinia. The protest also denounces the market choices relating to the Roman pecorino PDO, for whose production is used more than half of all the milk produced in this region and from whose trend it depends the price, which is therefore conditioned by strong fluctuations, although the production sector is regulated by quotas that are fixed each year, but that according to the Sardinian shepherds are not respected by many dairy farmers, also because of an ineffective system of control and the application of minimum sanctions, which do not represent a deterrent. The solidarity paid to those who are daily engaged in hard farming in the Sardinian countryside has been vast and has emphasized even more the silence of regional policy. It is a problem so much felt and suffered that now awaits concrete answers. I thank Prime Minister Conte, the ministers Centinario and Lezzi for coming immediately to Sardinia to meet a delegation of shepherds and start a serious negotiation with the transformers. Immediate action is needed to overcome the problem, but structural in order not to disperse, but to preserve, the thousand-year-old tradition of pastoral care in Sardinia and to protect the products made in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u83	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the delirium of omnipotence preyed on by the Calabrian Regional Council led by Mario Oliverio, which is sharper, if possible, since the President was subjected to a precautionary measure, has been causing ever more serious failures as the autumn election is approaching, especially as regards the protection of the territory and the landscape. The outgoing Junta, in fact, in the hope of guaranteeing its consent blandendo the economic potentates and certain champions of the exchange vote, often contiguous or consubstantial to organized crime, struggles to authorize the tripling of the landfill of Scala Coeli, on the border between the Provinces of Cosenza and Crotone, to use it also for the waste of the public cycle. Too bad that the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities - it is news a few days ago - has not been involved so far and put in a position to express itself on any landscaping constraints. In the papers, moreover, there is no activation of the preventive verification of the archaeological interest of the area, imposed by the legislation for public works or, as in this case, of public interest. Even more paradoxical is what happens today in the territory of Scandale, again in the Province that the Region agency has evidently destined for the concentration of all kinds of waste, where it was not enough the SIN Crotone, Cassano and Cerchiara, with its legacy of heavy metals and radioactive waste. Not surprisingly, after the Regional Waste Management Plan approved at the end of 2016, the resolution of the Regional Council n. 256 of 30 October 2017 counted more than 600 landfill sites in Calabria and denounced some harmful concentrations. In the choice of future locations, the act requires, therefore, to take into account a landfill pressure factor, to be calculated on a municipal and provincial scale, in order to protect, in theory, areas already stressed at environmental level. Too bad that the calculation criteria adopted by the Calabria Region are such as not to impose any localizational attention on the Provinces and municipalities of Calabria. Well, Santa Marina di Scandale only seven years ago was stolen, thanks to an extraordinary appeal to the President of the Republic, to the hypothesis of hosting an asbestos dump; hypothesis rejected - it is read in the device - for the significant presence on the territory of the Croatian industrial waste treatment plants, still active plants. Applying the procedure of the decree general manager n. 2014 of 2010 cancelled at the highest level, however, the Region, in spite of the principles of precaution and prevention, as well as the law, would like again to plant a landfill, against which was presented and depends opposition to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The ban on the creation of new landfills has never failed, in fact. You cannot tolerate beyond this friendly fire that strikes Calabrian citizens from every direction. One cannot tolerate such blatant insuffering against the rules of civil life. I therefore assure the citizens of Crotonese of my personal commitment, and of my colleagues spokesperson in the Chambers, against these and every other attempt to make Calabria a trash can of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u86	ABATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems of the Calabrian transport system, which torment the whole of Calabria and, in particular, the Sibaritide belt, are well known. To the state of general abandonment of the ionic line, now known to all, is added, also for 2019, the negative judgment of the report Pendolaria of Legambiente, that from 2008 presents a photograph of the situation of the railway transport in Italy. The document shows that a truly tragic issue is precisely that of the Calabrian ionic line, which needs to be equipped with new trains. The most serious thing is that between 2010 and 2018, trains in Calabria were cut by 16 percent, while tariffs increased by 20 percent. A picture of overall backwardness in which the line Reggio Calabria-Taranto is, once again, reported among the ten worst in Italy. In Calabria we do not invest, indeed, Trenitalia makes ears as a merchant, perhaps because the largest company of transport on rubber, that counts three fixed daily races towards the Capital, is an participated of the Ferrovie dello Stato, whose acquisition was favored by the decisions of the previous Government. There are usually 11 bus runs that depart daily from Sibaritide to Rome, testifying how the numbers for an Arrow are, indeed. Let's come to the most recent facts: on October 20 I presented a project to the Long Haul Passenger Division of Trenitalia, which provides for the introduction of a Frecciargento, that waiting for the electrification of the stretch between Sibari and Crotone, colleagues the Sibaritide in Rome, with the hope that, subsequently, to completed works, said train can start just from the station of Crotone. The new direct and fast connection between Sibari and Rome would have as potential catchment area about 100,000 inhabitants, concentrated in the municipalities of Rossano-Corigliano alone, now the third city of Calabria, and Cassano-Sibari. To date, in fact, the area of Sibaritide is not directly connected to Rome by iron. The journey between Sibari and Rome by train requires one or two changes, with journey times ranging from a minimum of five hours - only in the morning - to more than seven hours. The project involves the introduction of a new Frecciargento service, which would connect the Sibaritide area with Rome, via Afragola, in less than four hours. It is a solution that would respond to a social demand, as it would also allow residents of this area, who often move for reasons of study and health, to travel with speed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ABATE (M5S). In conclusion, the numbers of the Sibaritide are there and programming new arrows on the territories is good. Legambiente underlines that where you invest the services you get an important return, just think that for the Arrows you have gone from 10 million passengers annually, in 2010, to 24 million in 2017. Mr President, and I really conclude, after the commitments made, I believe that it is time to move on to the implementation phase of this plan, in order to give a concrete response to the citizens. Trenitalia knows that the Sibaritide is also ready for mobilization. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u89	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, more than an end-of-session speech, the Brothers of Italy Group would have liked to ask the House for a vote to schedule an extremely topical subject, but in this respect we have already prepared a letter to the President. Our will is to draw the attention of the Assembly and therefore to ask for a discussion and discussion on a matter of extreme topicality, if not even a political emergency, which obliges the Government to make a precise choice, beyond the statements that so far have been made by institutional representatives of the Bank of Italy, as well as authoritative representatives of the majority itself. I am referring to the question of gold reserves and their ownership. It is in fact gold held and managed, but not owned by the Bank of Italy. With the letter sent to the President of the Senate we ask to introduce in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly a discussion on this subject, also to discuss motion 1-00077, at the first signature of my colleague Fazzolari, concerning the ownership of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy. I want to summarize very briefly and quickly the point of the situation: as I said, the gold reserves are gold held and managed, but not owned by the Bank of Italy. Mr Borghi, President of the Budget Committee of the House of Members, also spoke on this issue, stigmatizing a reality marked by a lack of legislation and a lack of legislation, on which action must be taken. It is therefore a defect to be corrected and a void to be filled, relating to the property of gold. Whose property is that? It is of the State and certainly not of the Bank of Italy. We believe that gold belongs to the Italians and the State and that the privatisation of banks has introduced a legislative gap, aggravated by the loss of sovereignty over the European Central Bank. In conclusion, Mr President, Italy is the third state in the world because of the presence of gold reserves and therefore we must ask ourselves, define the issue and legislate by means of a legislative act, which reaffirms that the gold reserves are the property of the Italian State and not of the Bank of Italy, because we would not want them to be used for other purposes. Above all, we want what is still deposited abroad to return to national territory. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Lanzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-90.ana.u91	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.32 a.m.
