ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.34 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, I would like to ask you a moment of attention to establish the continuation of our work. As you know, the request has been made to dedicate a space to allow five-minute speeches to commemorate the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. We must now decide whether to do so before or after the first item on the agenda for today's sitting. Not seeing the senators present in the Chamber who first made this request, I would refer this point to the conclusion of the examination of the draft law already laid down on the agenda. Not making any comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1570, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Mantovani, has requested permission to carry out the oral report, but I do not see her at the moment in this House. Pending the arrival, I inform you that seven sub-amendments to the articles of the decree-law have been submitted within the specified time. I am therefore authorizing the Budget Commission to meet now so that opinions on these proposals can also be delivered at the right time. It is a wish and I also count on the effective cooperation of President Pesco. As the rapporteur has not yet arrived, I would ask the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Borghesi, whether he intends to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u5	, f. f. Yes, ma'am. I turn to the written report and ask that it be annexed to the report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u6	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply aware of the sense of responsibility for intervening on such an important subject as the one we are dealing with, which involves not only constitutional engineering or administrative-institutional measures, but also the security of the nation, understood as economic security, as data protection of our companies and, above all, as security of a military nature. At this moment we must discuss an extremely important measure and above all consider a principle, that of national security, which is neither barterable nor subject to economic interests. I am referring to the arguments I heard yesterday in the first Commission on economic issues, the fall in GDP and perhaps the maintenance of employment. We, in the face of national security, have an absolute duty to look at this type of problem and do everything possible to preserve it, because today the destinies of future generations are inevitably decided. Today we must look very carefully at what can happen, for example, in the transmission of military data. A political force and a political movement like ours has always made of the sense of responsibility a flag, both in foreign policy - let us remember - in the proximity to our soldiers in missions abroad and above all on this issue that concerns national security, over which we believe the interests of partisan should not prevail, but the interests of Italy and Italians. So we think we have the cards in order. What must be the perimeter for the cyber defence of our country? This is one of the first measures of the Second Count Government and identifies a series of subjects, both public and private, that, based on the activity carried out and the systems and infrastructures used to carry out such activity, will be subject to a series of standardised security procedures. As Forza Italia we have tabled a number of amendments, among which I would like to mention what characterizes and qualifies our political battle, according to which, at the time when a cybernetic attack occurs, the President of the Council of Ministers must immediately communicate it and report to the Copasir. This is an extremely important aspect. The national situation, but also the international one, is aggravated today by the presence of two new elements with which we have to deal: the first is 5G technology and the other is big data. We must take into account the fact that these are elements of advantage and development, but they can also become critical for our sensitive data. Yesterday in the first Commission, where I was invited by some members because, although I was not a part of it, I was interested in the subject, there was a lot of talk about what is happening. I would like to remind you that cyber attacks, which involve disasters not only because personal data are being stolen, but also extremely important data such as military ones, have covered at least a quarter, i.e. 24.9%, the United States of America, 9.1% of China, 5% of Russia and at the same time Brazil, 4% of Germany. Italy has not been exempt from this type of attack, so we are faced with a situation of extreme danger that we must consider very seriously. Italy cannot therefore ignore a concrete defence, through the identification of a national security perimeter. Once the preeminent actor in conflicts, when politics had exhausted its words and the marked papers of diplomacy had finished its function, was the force; today the nations are strengthened and fortified by the obtaining of important, strategic, economic data and - I repeat once again - military, for this reason we need to prepare a defence of this kind. Finally, let me remind you that we must have effective immune defences in this respect, against the penetration of foreign multinationals that have their roots even in unliberal regimes. At this very moment, when we are seeing the global challenge between two great superpowers, the United States and China, it is our job to make a choice. We cannot remain in the circle of the ignorant, we cannot remain among the colors that are suspended; we must choose which side to stand on and we have done so: that of freedom. We are with Europe, although it may not like it as a whole; a Europe that can be improved, amended, but we are Euro-critical and not Euro-Sceptic. We are within NATO and must protect it, with its own responsibilities, even of a military nature. We are therefore on the side of democracy and above all freedom and have made our choice of decisive field once and for all. I believe that these are the reasons why it is important for us to have these defences. He will explain better what the critical points we have noted in this measure are, particularly in the light of some of our important amendments, which have not been accepted, in an explanation of vote. These are the reasons why, Mr President, I believe that the Forza Italia Group has also done its duty on this subject in the interests of Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u8	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u9	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for all of us today to imagine a world without the Network, a world in which we can ignore the richness of data circulating on the Network, but also the power with which it allows us to control virtually all aspects of cultural, social, industrial and political life. We can fairly realistically compare the Net to our nervous system, composed of a central apparatus and a peripheral one, something that completely and radically innerces the system and, as such, expresses its life, similar to what happens, on the contrary, with a diagnosis of brain death, in case there is a flat electroencephalogram. The Network needs to constantly feed on data, information and technological inputs, which are progressively more advanced. But his strength and power define, at the same time, his riskiness, his weakness, his fragility, from which we must defend ourselves. The real challenge today is how to use all the potential of the Network and defend itself from its risks, which involve - I insist - attacks on the whole field. I am thinking of the great diffusion of online commerce, the great resource that represents in many places a structure like Amazon, that allows to deliver the product of last generation until the last country in our entire universe (at least western and eastern). However, we are within a system in which even the war that takes place on the Net uses strategies, techniques and methodologies that the general culture is not yet able to identify and recognize. So much so that, compared to the attack on the net, cyber security before even representing a defence of national security, becomes an individual security tool, for example with respect to its bank accounts, its e-mail, the sphere of the intimacy of each of us, our choices and desires in the seemingly free and liberal context with which we use social media. In all this, finding the point of balance requires a revolution that starts from the recovery of a formation, in which the technical, humanistic, ethical and dialological component become tools for a cooperation that is aware that the betrayal on the Net can cause damage so deep as to overcome those of a war. We need only look at the control of all power stations, airports, stations, railways, trains and all transport. What is our challenge in all this? Surely a part of the challenge is linked to the law that we are about to approve, through which we must equip ourselves with rigorous, strong and clear regulatory tools, but placed in the right point of balance between openness to innovation and enhancement of advanced technological contribution on the one hand, and, on the other, prudence with respect to a natural discretion and possibility to control the famous black holes of the Network, which make the luck of the hackers who manage to discover them, inserting them. Cinematography often shows us that it is theoretically impossible, but in fact it becomes possible, because the factor of human intelligence is able to overcome the Network and override its resistances. This battle is about formation. I believe that this law is necessary but not sufficient, because it ignores the scale of the capillarity of training, which we must now bring to the very least. It was yesterday that the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence approved a very important document, namely the outline of the final document of the cognitive investigation on bullying and cyberbullying, which refers to the use of the Intensive Network in the negative sense, as a form of aggression and violence that starts from the private to expand and create a system of war that is no longer private, but involves large groups of people. We must not neglect this data. It seems to me that the law does not provide sufficient guarantees that starting from primary and upper secondary school. Basically, all levels of higher education must be achieved. Let me give you an example. I am thinking of the data concerning the health of each one of us and telemedicine, which allows sensitive data and information on everyone's health to travel and which becomes interceptable, for example, as is often the case in the United States, by the health insurance system, which makes it possible to accept or not a person according to his or her actual state of health. I also think about banks and our bank accounts. Training today must achieve this level of complexity. Only a citizen who, in his specific professional practice, has reached maturity, knowledge and adequate competence can then be able to grasp the dimension of the power of the instrument at national and international level (we are in fact within a complex system) and, at that time and in that place, be a responsible and conscious interlocutor. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u10	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to broadband, our data and information travels fast. It is a speed that allows us to innovate and use public and private online services, improving, thanks to these, our lives and our daily commitments. Moving, feeling safe, managing online purchases and payments or watching a video is part of a way of life that travels on the Net, through connections that enable electronic communications. We live in an era of great technological and social transformations that, while allowing us to project ourselves into fascinating evolutions of the near future, have already radically changed our present. This scenario, in which we are all immersed, more or less consciously, can only work and be functional if there is a reliable and secure system at the base of infrastructure, public and private services or data and content. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cybersecurity is a crucial area where system legislation is needed. Broadband is not enough to allow businesses to evolve and develop new businesses and citizens to fully experience digital opportunities. To be efficient and effective, it is essential to ensure a security perimeter within which this information and services travel reliably. That is why today we are deliberating on how to define the rules and interventions to ensure that this perimeter becomes effective and enabling for digital society. The first obstacle to overcome is precisely the awareness that investing in security makes the difference for a country system in step with the needs of an innovative state. This is why a zero balance concept runs counter to the concepts of digitalisation and innovation. Take Singapore, for example, a city with population density in Rome. In recent years he has climbed the international rankings, arriving in 2017 in the first place in the Global cybersecurity index, the UN report that examines the national cybersecurity efforts of 193 Nations. Singapore is an example of how seriously investing in IT security policies allows a state to support the development of public administration digital markets and services. This is an effective attitude precisely because it arises from the awareness of existing problems and the solutions to be implemented. Translating this approach to the Italian condition, the first awareness that we must have is that we do not solve the risks related to cyber attacks without seriously investing, as well as we do not need to find solutions that start from scratch and that, therefore, have limited effectiveness in the short and medium term. On the contrary, there is a need for choices that enhance and evolve the excellence already present in Italian administrations, realities that work daily to ensure a perimeter of security for the infrastructures and services on which our data and sensitive information travel. A highly sanctioning system, but which does not provide for instruments that enable administrations to manage computer risk in a structured way, is certainly not able to protect security policies at every administrative level and this is the second awareness that we must have. What is lacking is certainly not the sanctions, which so far, on the contrary, have burdened the expenditure of the administrations, without leading them to positive changes that rely on instruments of verification and compliance with the requirements issued by the norm. So what do we do? We believe that it is necessary to start from the excellence already present in Italian administrations and to develop, for example, tools to assess and address the risks related to computer security in order to improve the safety and reliability of systems, services and information. In conclusion, Mr President, we propose the creation of a national vulnerability database, a national vulnerability archive, starting with risk analysis tools already available to the public sector, to increase return actions from cybersecurity risks. The National Vulnerability Database, the National Vulnerability Archive, would undoubtedly be the enabling factor in the cybernetic perimeter that we are discussing today in this House, and this would be a guarantee for our security, for the security of the country and for all our citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u13	Mr President, the subject we are dealing with today in this House's investigation is eminently political. Yesterday I also found myself making a contribution in the first permanent Commission, where we tried to make an analysis, an investigative reading activity that took into account both the technical and the legal aspects, within a political reading framework. What happens with this decree-law, already instructed in the Chamber of Deputies and which, by completion, is also put back to the work of the Senate? Through a decree-law we have the strengthening of the investigative activity related to cybernetics, telecommunications, establishing as value, in natural terms, the maintenance of the certainty of national computer security. The good to be guarded and guaranteed is therefore that of computer security from the point of view of national security. What rules are in place to ensure that national security is guaranteed? The reference is, first of all, to Articles 3 and 24 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in which a perimeter of the national space takes shape, exceeding the category of the national perimeter. It has already happened with regard to air mobility and is confirmed here and could only be so with regard to telematics infrastructure. Since the dawn of time, the State has needed borders (it would have taken us here now illustrious members of this Assembly: I think, for example, to the Sardinian Guido Melis, who studied the political institutions in depth, to the President emeritus of the Republic Francesco Cossiga or, again, to Ettore Rotelli and Gianfranco Miglio, who left us in authoritative testimony studies on how the State was born and how it was guaranteed). And what kind of borders did the state need? Natural borders, made such by the presence of armed human forces in traditional terms. But would it be enough today to ensure the outline of the state's borders, combining the natural resources of water, the high ground, the difficulty of overcoming or the number of human physical forces, in order to make sure that the soil and even the sovereignty are intact? Absolutely not. Because of what Mrs Binetti said at times, when she said that technology exceeded the force of natural borders (those that can be considered traditional) to confine and defend. The Lombardy Region, I believe also following the useful debates at the time of the Conference of Regions directed by Vasco Errani, posed in 2012 the theme of the underground regulatory plan. It was a regulatory plan that wanted to make order between the networks that arm and decorate the subsoil, which lead to normal supplies of traditional services (water, electricity and what else serves the civilization and the functioning of the cities). But would it be enough the 2012 Underground Regulatory Plan of the Lombardy Region to protect us from aggressions and penetrations via computer and cybernetic? Absolutely not. So the legislator makes use of the regulatory resource. What does the regulatory resource say? Let us simplify and make it understandable and understandable also for those who are not members of this House: the rule we are voting on includes a deepening and strengthening of the investigative activity in saying yes or no to those who want to invest in information technology, telematics or cybernetics in the soil of Europe and in the soil of Italy. What is the extraordinary instrument of this enhanced investigation procedure? The veto. In article 4-a of the decree-law instructed to the Chamber the institute of veto appears. In a place of political dialogue and parliamentary dialogue, the following question arises: should the veto be envisaged as an institution to secure Europe's national border in relation to technology investments? Of course it is, because the opposite of economic growth can happen with a clumsy use of technology. In 1999 Massimo Cacciari and another good intellectual expert in philosophical thought, Emanuele Severino, reasoned whether technology, pushed to the extreme, brings only good or even bears its opposite. I remember that Cacciari, with relentless reasoning, pointed out that technology must know limits. Here we set limits where national security is put at risk. There is another question: who will set the limit and veto, if national security is at risk? Palazzo Chigi, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with a procedure that is characterized by the warning of the exceptional moment. Gianfranco Miglio (I don't know where he was sitting) will have spoken, in his speeches, about the value of the exceptional moment when the State enters the field. And the exceptional moment of which the State must be aware who reveals it? Chigi Palace. And by what law? Originally according to Law No. 400 of 1988, which was conceived by another illustrious senator, Andrea Manzella (who certainly frequents and knows my colleague Zanda). Manzella, in the reorganization of the Presidency of the Council, specified what was the nerve point of the State, where there is risk, the danger. But also Cossiga made a reflection: in case of war, where is the warning activated? We therefore have a rule that rationalises this aspect. And what can Parliament do about it if it is serious? Develop security and awareness in the activation of the information. This is because the competent parliamentary committee is regularly informed, every thirty days, as is the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic. Inside this frame, then - and I begin to conclude - did this law serve? This is the basic question; if we were in a private interview we would call it the ethical question. Did you need that rule? Of course I do. Was it needed right now? Of course it is, because there are international operators in the distance who can put national security at risk. Within this framework, then, I invite you to vote yes (although the explanation of vote will be Senator Collina, more competent than I also in technology). But we also need to find a point of convergence, as Parliament should do every time we talk about national security. Of course, the Berlin Wall would not have helped us, in this case, to guarantee national security. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Grimani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education - Pertini-Falcone - in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u15	Mr President, I am speaking here on this measure as it is not only important, but fundamental - and I stress this - for economic development, the competitiveness of the country system, security and therefore national sovereignty. The measure, in a somewhat confusing way, completes an iter started on June 7 of last year - date that I do not quote at random - when, as the first act of the Government Count I, it was decided to apply the golden power on Retelit, a topic of news of these days and of course also political polemics. The first measure of the government, the day after swearing, when the President of the Council was still on an institutional trip abroad, was the application of golden power. I quote you because it is part of this provision and in the Count Government The first and in the Government Count II then the golden power - or rather, the exercise and the legislation related to it - has been changed several times in a confused and botched manner. And when is it clearly changed politically (and I am addressing this House)? With the decree-law issued in a hasty manner, when the President of the Chinese Communist Party - who is also President of the Chinese State - comes to Italy to sign the agreements on the Silk Road. At that moment - and not by chance - the golden power - then proposed in this measure - is extended to 5G technology and, above all, the possibility of intervention on corporate acquisitions - that is, on the composition of companies, as done with Retelit - which, not by chance, is also extended to instruments and systems, that is to say to the technology that would be used. This Conte II Government is also born with a measure taken on the occasion of its first Council of Ministers, concerning the golden power and the perimeter of national security, that is, the measure we are talking about today. Why do I think that this is not only important but fundamental (and I repeat this to this House)? Because it interconnects three issues (as one could affect the other): technological development (of digital and therefore digital security); global competitiveness; sovereignty and national security. We are in the presence of a fourth industrial revolution. I remember that industrial revolutions have changed the global structure and hierarchy of nations in recent centuries. The first global revolution of 1784 places London as the capital of the world: at that time the steam engine was developed; from there Marxism, capitalism and more were born. The second global industrial revolution dates back to 1870 and I would locate it - I hope you agree - in Boston, where the assembly line is located, which shifts the planetary structures. The capital of the world is no longer London or a city of Europe, but it moves to Boston and, therefore, to the United States. Those who, for example, visited the district of the Brenta Riviera know what it means because this district is born when a Venetian emigrated to Boston discovers that the assembly line can also be applied to footwear. This is how the first assembly line company in the district of the Riviera del Brenta was founded. The third industrial revolution is information technology. It is a revolution of intelligence and automation. I remind my friend Maurizio Gasparri that in those years we wrote the book "The Age of Intelligence," predicting the collapse of the communist system as a consequence of the computer revolution, as then happened. The computer revolution, placing the emphasis on the West, automation and economic development, has led to the collapse of the communist system. With these examples of the three previous industrial revolutions I want to tell you that we are facing an industrial revolution, the digital revolution, which could lead to the collapse of the West and the prevalence of the East, hence the conflict, which has been measured and measured primarily in this country, between the East and the West for the control of the 5G and therefore of the sovereignty of data, but also because Italy, inevitably being the final outlet of the Silk Road, is consequently the new frontier between East and West. We are at the center of this "seismic fault" and, consequently, the Government promptly and hastily intervenes during the visit of President Xi Jinping to make a decree-law on the golden power, attempt to secure the 5G and therefore satisfy not the needs of the American ally, but the needs of the West in order to preserve the culture of civil rights that we conquered with respect to Communist China and the East. Deputy Minister Di Maio, who discovered himself as Minister for Foreign Affairs, visited Beijing a few days ago, said he was satisfied with the realization of the golden power on 5G. We are therefore faced with the fourth industrial revolution whose price at stake concerns our freedom, our civil rights, religious freedoms, the culture of the person, which is not only a number, as it is in Communist China, but has all its sphere of rights that represent its plural dimension: a person inasmuch as he expresses his freedom on privacy, politics, its religious and economic freedom. The evolution of our classical Jewish-Roman civilization is threatened by those who could exercise digital power to achieve, to some extent, a new world domination. This is so true that from 2015 onwards, i.e. from the Xi era onwards, several legislative changes have taken place in China, all aimed at the objective that every citizen and every Chinese company - I spell out the words every citizen and every Chinese company - have a duty to provide information and to serve national security where it is called upon to do so and, therefore, to provide the information it is aware of. This is the problem we are facing in these hours - I am afraid - in the inattention of the national political debate. How does the measure at our time deal with this problem, which finally came to this House after a year and a half of convulsive labor? I say this again to the Government, because it took a year and a half for a very long birth, to which the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic, of which I am a member, has clearly contributed. In fact, it was not by chance that the cognitive investigation activated by the then President Guerini, on the country's telecommunications system that mainly concerns national security. Well, the measure comes to this House today and an amendment is reappearing which, in fact - I mean with great honesty - is built to give power to the Ministry of the Interior after the Ministry of Defence had obtained it in the transition to the House. Well, there has been a "jealousy" among the Ministries and, because of this jealousy intervened in the meantime, another amendment is presented that will bring the provision back to the House, while in the meantime blowing winds of crisis that shake majority and government. Mr President, I do not know how much time I still have, but I want to say that we consider this fundamental measure, even if it is carried out in a confused, messy and unconscious way, because the majority, and especially the relative majority party, the Movimento 5 Stars, is not aware of how fundamental this measure is for the development of national security. However, we will abstain on this measure (I assume that Senator Petrenga will say it better than I do): we will intervene in the other fora because, although it is fundamental, it is done in a botched manner, as demonstrated by the amendment tabled here, which will force another parliamentary passage. This is what we wanted to say in the full awareness of what the country is playing in these months: not its sovereignty, but the sovereignty of the West. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u16	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u17	Mr President, we are faced with a decree-law establishing a perimeter of national cybernetic security; therefore, a real fence as regards national security to be guaranteed in a very delicate area: electronics, digital, telecommunications. Before any other consideration, I would like to say that if there is a movement that more than others has worked to impose on the government agenda the issues of national security and sovereignty, this is the League of Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Nothing therefore precludes the conversion into law of a decree-law on this matter, but the game is delicate, perhaps too much. The European Council - I would like to remind you - asks us to be sovereignists (it seems strange) in the management of new technologies. I recall the conclusions of your Presidency that, just a few days ago, after pointing out how crucial the spread of 5G is, it called for European technological sovereignty and for robust standard measures to shield the most important service providers from undue intrusions. Instead, this government is facing the issues with some confusion (let's also think about Alitalia). Let us remember - it was a few days ago - that in the Chamber of Deputies the Government took back, after granting it, the favourable opinion on a motion that would stop the experiment on 5G, with rocambolistic works for which before the Undersecretary expressed positive opinion and then, following shouts and protests, withdrew to return with a different outcome. In short, always a total domination of confusion, contradiction and, basically, unreliability. Turning back to the substance of the text that we are discussing, it is good for the Government to continue along the path that we have drawn, but we cannot fail to note some critical issues precisely on the text, which we have tried to resolve with amending proposals that we will resume today in this House, the result of a very fast - if not almost non-existent - debate in the Commission and an equally rapid vote. Today we come to this House without a sufficiently detailed discussion of such a complex issue. We wanted to introduce cloud driver solutions, but our proposal has not been accepted; neither has the proposal to define what the major incident is, so much so that it becomes difficult to understand the scope of the application. We have also proposed a coordination table with the participation of all stakeholders to define procedures and operational measures. We have also proposed an amendment to make an annual and not biennial update. Technology has incredible speeds and in two years our mobile phones do not survive. In short, we have tried to make our contribution obviously in the interest of our country. Mr President, today we are faced with another serious institutional problem. Today there are de facto contingent elements that cannot be underestimated; even if the law provides for the future and acts in a general and abstract way, we cannot forget the current political and governmental context. I refer to the provisions in the text which give the President of the Council certain powers which can be activated in the event of a serious risk or cyber-crisis. In fact, they can dispose of the decommissioning of one or more equipment or products when the maintenance of their operation can constitute a serious and imminent risk to national security. We share the spirit of the measure, but we do not trust the person to whom it will give extraordinary powers and a coordinating role that this President-in-Office of the Council cannot guarantee. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Should we now put our trust in a President-in-Office of the Council who consulted Chancellor Merkel and, therefore, with a foreign State, to ask for advice on how to limit the action of his ally and Interior Minister Salvini? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Should we entrust our security to a Prime Minister who had to appear before the Copasir in order to clarify the intransparent contours of the visit of the US Minister Barr? Do we want to remember Fiber? Do we want to remember some passages that certainly do not make the atmosphere fogless? Gentlemen, this is national security; we are not talking about stage politics; we are not talking about proclamations: we are talking about national security. Giving large power to a person in a context such as the current one does not reassure, but confuses. The profile becomes uncertain, if not dangerous. The great security that the State can give is the coherence, strength and respect of the people and their will. Looks to me like we're really on the high seas. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very complicated matter. I believe that not only technological skills are needed, but that they embrace a little bit the whole real society. That's what my colleague, Binetti, said before. We cannot think that digital is a discipline in itself: digital represents - I say this to my previous colleague - the fifth industrial revolution (because we are beyond the Internet, which represented the fourth industrial revolution) and a new global ecosystem. Today we hear so much about climate and environment. Do you think that climate and environment can be addressed as global issues by a single state? Absolutely not. I try to simplify, because it is complex to say it with the terms (which, moreover, do not belong to me because I am not a technician), the same thing can be said about digital. It is a global ecosystem, that hybrid analog and digital and this hybridization is a very complex process, which must certainly be governed by politics. The decree-law under consideration is certainly an important and necessary first step in defining the national perimeter of cybersecurity. This is a fundamental step, to which Italy has arrived - and this must also be said - with a ten-year delay compared to other countries, such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Holland. I therefore call on this branch of Parliament and all of us colleagues to observe who is ahead of us. In particular, with reference to the body called National Assessment and Certification Centre (CVCN), which is the head of the President of the Council of Ministers, I invite you to observe the organization and the German model, for which important human and financial resources have been invested: we are talking about a department, within which about 300 people work. We are starting in a somewhat flexible way, with regard to CVCN, which will also play a crucial and fundamental role in balancing the two plates of the balance, namely the aspect of national security, which must certainly be safeguarded, and that of the competitiveness and development of our country in a global system. In the CVCN - alas - we have in fact invested few resources: I think that only 77 people are expected and I would also say that their salary will be quite low, because we start from a minimum of 32,000 euros, to a maximum of 40,000 euros. These are highly specialized professional figures, who need a training and training course and I would not want Italy to face this task only for a few years, with reference to these human resources, and then let them escape to countries where they can be paid more. They are in fact professional figures with skills and skills, which are not widespread in our country. In this regard, I would also like to open another section on digital literacy, because today the real problem of cyber attacks is not so much technology, but it is the community: it is we citizens, we human beings, who often do not know the risks of technology. It would therefore be extremely important, necessary and indispensable, for an investment and digital literacy programme to be addressed in the country. I know that TIM is doing a lot in this regard and has started a programme in 108 Italian municipalities, which will last two years and on which important resources have been invested, precisely to bring the Italian community closer to digital technologies and services. So let us deal very briefly with the main problems of the text under consideration. First of all, we must be aware that the path is extremely complicated for Italy, not only for the ten years of delay, but also because there is still a great deal to be invested in this direction and I hope that the next budget laws will provide for posts allocated specifically for this game. However, we must also be aware that it really takes a lot to reach the level of computer security in other countries. I should like to start by expressing my own personal thought: I believe that France is running for Europe to follow the cyber-security game. This makes us reflect on the fact that this issue must certainly be brought to European level. We have taken this first step, but we must try to understand what the Germans are doing from the organizational point of view (those are a war machine as far as the organization is concerned) and what the French are doing on the other hand to run this game which is extremely important. Returning to a problem that concerns the delay we are serving, we cannot put the slices of salami in front of our eyes. I am trying to say this in measured terms: computer security issues, ladies and gentlemen, are an irresolvable issue. It comes to my mind from time to time that, in order to defend against globalization, in the various states of the world they have pulled up walls, such as the Great Wall or the Maginot line. Then they also crossed the walls, these incredible walls that were to protect States from the risks of globalisation. There are no walls in the net. I can try to put in a barrier, but - let me tell you - this can be bypassed. This is another point which I would like to put to the attention of political reflection. On digital culture - as I have already said - we absolutely need to invest. Then there is another point: being this digital ecosystem and this infrastructure fundamental to the competitiveness of the country, we must try to find a point of contact that also passes through a relationship of collaboration, esteem and trust between the State, that must govern this very important match, and the operators of the essential services (OSE). This cooperation goes not only through the definition of sanctions, which must certainly be contained in a legislative measure, but also through extremely close and close cooperation. The last reflection is precisely on the competences that our country does not have and that we must, at the speed of light, try to form, because otherwise we will always be slaves to someone else. Some of my previous colleagues have already said this, but I would like to reiterate that Italy must play this game within Europe, but trying to stand tall and bring to the negotiating tables the piece of this new industrial paradigm on which it plays its game. I said before: France - it seems - wants to play it on cybersecurity, we see what else we can play it on. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u19	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u20	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, athletes and technicians of the Venezuelan Women's Football Federation, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u21	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Senators and Senators, we must consider that the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration in the matter of the perimeter of national and cybernetic security is a very important subject because, if we really want to give an impulse to start making sure that our country evolves in the digital field, security must go hand in hand. Today in the ranking of the Digital economy and society index (DESI), which monitors us and judges us at European level, we are at the twenty-fourth place in the order of European countries in the digital field; if we want to climb up this ranking, bridge the digital divide and invest in this area, we must also invest in security and for this reason the decree-law that we go to approve is very important. The text establishes the cybernetic national security perimeter in order to ensure the security of networks, information systems and IT services necessary for the performance of functions or the provision of services from which discontinuity may result in prejudice to national security. In the Commission, an objection was raised that the decree to be adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers should not be an autonomous guideline of the Council of Ministers, but can also be assessed by Parliament. However, the transposition of this request to the Commission has already taken place during the evaluation phase in the Chamber of Deputies, when the provision has been made that the relevant parliamentary committees may make judgements for the identification of the persons included in the scope of national security; therefore, whenever the President of the Council of Ministers adopts its own regulations, they will also be subject to scrutiny by Parliament. In particular, reference is made to public administrations, public and private national bodies and operators having a seat in the national territory (as specified during the examination at the Chamber), whose information and information systems and networks are necessary for the exercise of an essential function of the State, for the performance of a service essential for the maintenance of civil, social or economic activities fundamental to the interests of the State and whose malfunction, interruption or misuse may affect national security. When the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers act on the different areas of activity, the subjects included in the perimeter will have to follow, in drawing up the list of networks and systems, a precise discipline and also in this case a criterion of graduality will be followed. Within six months of the entry into force of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the lists drawn up shall be sent to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers by public entities and private entities, with the necessary qualifications that they intend to provide qualified trust services or carry out the activity of an e-mail operator or digital identity manager, or that they intend to carry out the activity of a Conservative of computer documents. The Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economic Development forward their lists to the Department of Security Information (DIS) and the body for the regularity and safety of telecommunications services at the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers is required to determine the procedures for the notification of incidents occurring on networks and systems included in the perimeter of national cybernetic security and security measures. With an amendment introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees is acquired on the draft decree, called upon to express their views within thirty days. The tasks of the National Assessment and Certification Centre (CVCN) are also identified, with reference to the procurement of products, processes, information and communication technology services (ICT) and associated infrastructures, where they are intended for networks, information systems, computer systems included in the cyber security perimeter. Appropriate connections are provided with the Department of Security Information and with the Ministry of the Interior's body for the safety and regularity of telecommunications services. Therefore, all security oversight bodies will be involved and linked to each other in order to better implement the security perimeter. Finally, with a provision adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Council of Ministers is entrusted with the coordination of the consistent implementation of the provisions of the decree-law, which govern the perimeter of national cybernetic security, also using the DIS, which ensures the appropriate connections with the authorities having powers and with the parties involved. The question of competences has been raised: it is absolutely true that the implementation of cybersecurity requires certain competences. For this reason, the MISE is authorised to assume on a fixed time basis the organic budget that is deemed necessary to meet the needs of staff with the appropriate skills, in a maximum quota of 77 units, within the limit of expenditure of 3.005,000 euros per year. With regard to the last two articles, which deal specifically with 5G technology, the objective of the measure is that it is subject to the necessary controls on the technologies used, but that, at the same time, it can be reached as soon as possible that level of implementation that currently still allows us a competitive advantage over other European countries. In this area we have this possibility and through the implementation of this decree-law we will be able to carry out simultaneously and consistently the requirements of implementation of the new 5G technology with the requirements of national security. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u22	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I communicate that amendments 1,700/7 and 1,700/8 cannot be proposed in accordance with Rule 97 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on the amendments tabled by my Group to the whole measure. Therefore, I will not ask you for the floor later. There are few of our amendments and they have been tabled in a very cooperative spirit, with a view to making a real improvement in the text. First of all, I would like to draw the House's attention to the need to reduce the time limits within which the Government must adopt the decree defining the cyber-defensive perimeter, as we believe that ten months are too long. In addition, we propose to extend not only to the information system, but also to the radio and television system the introduction of the cloud driver, a technology that can certainly help in continuous monitoring. Above all, let us point out amendment 1.4 - as has been done repeatedly in the Commission - because it aims to remedy what we consider to be a lack of the measure where the reasons and cases relating to the making of alerts are to be identified and defined. The measure is generally referred to as "accidents": the stakeholders, present in the perimeter, must report to the authorities identified the incidents that have occurred on the equipment and systems of competence. Since there is no definition of accident in the decree-law, nor of a time limit within which this category should be defined (i.e. a subsequent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers or other regulation), we believe that serious problems can be created in the implementation phase, because there will certainly be uncertainty in the definition of such case law. Disputes could be opened, which is absolutely something to be avoided in an area where action is needed in a timely and timely manner, without any delay. Therefore, I call on the Government and the majority to take amendment 1.4. seriously. Finally, in view of the cooperative spirit which we are demonstrating today in this House and which has also been present in the Commission, I cannot fail to express regret at the small incident which occurred at the last sitting of the Commission when, while the work was still under way, we learned of the deposit for the examination of a government amendment in this House without the Commission being informed of it. The Undersecretary was also unblamed for this fact, and I thank him for his cooperation and willingness, which he was dismayed at. We understand the excitement of the moment and we regret that, not so much the Undersecretary, but the Government did not take due account of the respect due to the Commission's work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u24	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u25	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1, with the exception of amendment 1,700, on which the opinion is in favour, as well as on amendments 1,700/5 and 1,700/6. The opinion was also in favour of agendas G1.100, G1.101, G1.102 and G1.103. Finally, on the agenda, G1.104, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: replacing the words "to assess the appropriateness" with the following: "to monitor the application of the provisions referred to in the preamble in order to assess the possibility of "to" and after the words "to" to include "to" in compliance with European legislation."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u26	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u27	Senator Schifani, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation? SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Ciriani accept the rewording of amendment 1,700/1 to which the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution is conditional? CIRIANI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,700/1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, until the words 'letter a) ', a wording incorporating the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,700/2 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,700/3, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,700/4, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,700/5, tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendment 1,700/6, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Amendments 1,700/7 and 1,700/8 are unacceptable. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,700, in the amended text, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.12 to 1.15 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u30	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, the text of the decree-law only speaks of omission. My colleague, Mr Pagano, has then tabled an amendment which takes account of the need to introduce the refusal, which would then be the rejection of the motion, because the simple omission would mean then having to ascertain the necessary time for it to have the consequences of the rejection, thus producing an unnecessary lengthening of the time. This amendment serves to give a minimum of coherence to the system; if it is not approved, there will be much longer time to ascertain the refusal of the administration, because it will have to be ascertained that the omission should instead be a due act, with the time to have the silence refused by the administration. I believe that a minimum of reflection can lead to the adoption of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u31	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the government has accepted the agendas G1.100, G1.101, G1.102, G1.103 and G1.104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u32	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u34	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.2 tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has given its opinion conditional on a rewording, which I ask the presenter if he will accept. PAGE (FI-BP). Yes, Mr President, we welcome you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u37	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I declare that the FI-BP Group will vote in favour of amendment 2.0.3 (text 2) which we are going to vote on, bearing in mind that we have also tabled an amending proposal on the ILVA issue today - and not alone, because Mr Calderoli has also done so - which, although not acceptable in today's debate, remains a problem to be resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u38	I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pagano, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u39	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u40	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u41	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u42	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 4-a.1 and I am in favour of Amendment No 4-a.600.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u43	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u44	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.1, tabled by Senators Pagano and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a.600, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u47	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law in question is indeed a step forward, first of all cultural. The hope is that the debate we are holding in Parliament's classrooms can also be held outside the political palaces and involve society. Our aim must be to increase awareness among citizens on these issues, promoting a culture of cyber-security that we still cannot say fully present in Italian society. Yet, there is a huge need for it in an era and in a world where every behavior, every action and even every step we take with our smartphone in our pocket is transformed into a data to store. This is the reality with which we must measure ourselves that requires appropriate interventions to ensure a principle that, moreover, like Italy Viva we have included also in our fundamental charter of values, namely the inviolability of identity, the protection of personal data and the dignity of people, which are the basis of the citizenship pact that binds people and institutions. The decree-law today establishes - as is well known - the perimeter of national security; a real enclosure with regard to national security to be guaranteed in the electronic, digital and telecommunications sectors in general. 11:10 a.m. (Following GRIMANI). Inside this enclosure are public and private bodies and operators that will be identified by the President of the Council with his own decree, whose computer systems are necessary for the Italian State and their malfunction could affect national security. All subjects within the perimeter will therefore be obliged to report any malfunctions of their systems through appropriate procedures and will have to follow specific iter for the acquisition of computer systems. The new National Evaluation and Certification Centre, set up by the Ministry for Economic Development at the Higher Institute for Communications and Information Technology, is an important part of this profile. The Centre will assess the risks associated with the purchase or supply of goods, human resources and IT services from a given provider. Obviously, in order to function this Centre needs human resources and, therefore, the decree-law gives it specific assumptions. Through the National Assessment and Certification Centre, a system is established to monitor safety conditions and the absence of danger for used products, equipment and systems in order to ensure the operation of networks, services and infrastructures included within the national cybernetic security perimeter. At the same time, it is expected that the so-called golden power will be extended with regard to 5G broadband communications services and those included in the perimeter, one of the most important aspects of the measure. This extension provides that in some way all contracts with entities from countries outside the European Union relating to 5G are monitored and the special powers set out in Decree-Law No 21 of 2012 are extended to include the exercise of veto power and the imposition of specific requirements. The decree provides for the extension of the government's golden power in the sectors of high technological intensity. The scope of the goods covered by this article is widened: they are subject to notification to the Government of purchases by entities outside the European Union of holdings in companies that hold critical infrastructures and technologies. Hence, legal concepts also extend and a perimeter of protection is put not only on the individual technological apparatus, but also on the entire corporate boxes to defend the integrity of the networks. The perimeter of cybernetic national security is the necessary tool to create a harmonious system of common rules and interventions to ensure the safety of our citizens; a fundamental instrument in a time when we hear daily about continuous cyber attacks or attempts to cyberattack our institutions and companies, increasingly for criminal purposes, intelligence or data subtraction. Our country must set itself the objective of combining technological progress and defence against external threats; that this is a growing danger, the data show it. 2018 was a negative year for cyber security: the Italian Computer Security Association recorded a significant increase in cyber attacks. If from 2011 to 2017 there were an average of 88 monthly attacks, in 2018 the number increased even to l29, and an average of 150 monthly attacks is estimated during 2019. Compared to past years, in 2018 there was an increase in serious attacks with criminal purposes of 43.8 percent, and for those related to espionage activities even 57.4 percent. Technology simplifies many processes and aspects of the daily life of citizens and businesses, but it also presents a strong vulnerability, which is exploited by those who want to attack our country to carry out thefts of information and try to modify some processes even decision-making or even conditioning public opinion. Technological development - which we do not intend to give up in any way - is full of opportunities, but it is also the bearer of threats, from which we, on the other hand, have the duty to defend ourselves. The measure before us is a first response to a real security question. That is why this decree-law, which will need rapid approval and the preparation of all the implementing decrees - in important quantities - is nevertheless a significant step that we must support and make understandable to citizens outside. Above all, we must make clear the real scope in terms of increasing computer security. By virtue of all this, we announce the vote in favour of the Italia Viva-PSI Group. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u48	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Comprensivo (Father Pio) of Sacrofano, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u51	PETRENGA (FdI). Mr President, cybersecurity is a weak act, given that we are living in the digital age, in the phase of 5G, where the risk of data theft, identity and fake news creation can be very high for the safety of our nation and companies. The current proposal for a law is not intended to protect national security; Italy is de facto put into a passive state of protection, but is still far from what the times would require. While, on the one hand, we have appreciated the acceptance of the House of Deputies of many agendas of the day of Brothers of Italy - including the adoption of an extraordinary plan to address skills shortages in the cybernetic sector through specific training and contrast to the brain drain from Italy - on the other, we believe that the only urgency in bringing an incomplete law to the Chamber is perhaps the need to assign 77 jobs to the Ministry for technological innovation and digitisation, without criteria and without adequate training, to those who should defend our nation. Since Senator Urso, Brothers of Italy, spoke extensively and in a precise, precise and scientific manner on the subject, he declared his vote of abstention to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u54	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we come to the approval of this measure after the important work carried out in the House, where the matter has certainly been studied more than the Senate: it must be noted that the House has been done a good job on the deepening and improvement of the provision. While listening to all the speeches that have been made, recognizing also the punctuality of addressing the issue by many, I would still like to talk about what is the context in which the measure fits. In August 2017, an important petrochemical plant in Saudi Arabia threatened to explode; two years ago, 25 hospitals in Great Britain remained offline, with no possibility of consulting medical records before operating operations. Maduro in Venezuela has accused another foreign power for a large blackout in the country that has knocked out power stations. When we talk about security in a country from the point of view of cyberattacks, we refer essentially to this and, that is, to the security of a system that is definitely interconnected today and now works significantly through the new technologies, but that presents vulnerabilities that can challenge it and cause serious damage to the security of that country. All this fits in with a context of great evolution of the system which, for a number of reasons that I mention only briefly, has taken place within the European perimeter. I am talking, for example, about the processes of liberalisation and privatisation. Liberalisation has been one of the important elements of the development of the European Union's economy and has also involved important telecommunications services and the development of IT networks. Privatisations, on the other hand, are choices that affect countries. The balance between these two aspects represented the dynamics and development of these issues in each European country and so today we find that some assets in Italy are private and in other countries are public. How much did we discuss in our country if Telecom's assets were to be left in the hands of a company that no longer has public capital? Although they often hear reasonings that this is not a problem, other countries have kept assets. Such asymmetries and this advanced context tumultuously make us understand what are the interests at stake and what is the delicacy of the topic we are facing. The decree-law has, therefore, a strategic value. It is not the first that we do: the Government Gentiloni Silveri had already addressed the issue by identifying a framework that points out certain elements; today with this decree we are going to address in a more meaningful way the issues articulating a system that has various sensitive points, but that I believe is also well composed in terms of weights, counterweights and management of information flows in a country like ours that is definitely very complex. It will take time to implement what is contained in the decree-law, but I believe that the approach is positive. This is a strategic approach that will allow us to deal with the complexity of the issue, albeit in its own time, but I believe it can represent a national security control and verification infrastructure in this area, which will be flexible and will also accompany future developments. In fact, we still do not know how this world will develop and how information flows and network control will be able to represent in the future a topic that develops with technologies or with others. The debate on these issues is ongoing, but it is also about geopolitics - it is useless that we hide - because there are aspects that concern relations with the United States or China. They are different technologies, which are being compared and which everyone obviously tries to impose. The news of a few months ago, about the launch by a private American company of a significant number of new telecommunications satellites, placed at smaller heights than the current conventions, which prefigures a superfast satellite Internet, makes us understand that everyone is developing different technologies, but the goal is always that of managing large masses of data. Other issues have been dealt with, for example by Mr D'Alfonso, such as the subject of subsoil. Again, in the logic of liberalisation, we have seen different things developed in Italy. Today the optical fiber, in our country, is spread out in a competitive way by various subjects: I am referring to infrastructure and not services. So they are all issues that make us understand that, although we are sure that we are intervening later on compared to others, the decree-law under consideration addresses and offers us the tools to govern this degree of complexity, also in the future. I am not saying what the digital world is today, because I think it is a challenge that we must take up. As other colleagues have said, we must imagine the society of the future, the society that will come through these instruments. This is the challenge not only of knowledge, but also of coexistence and democracy and it is the frontier that must ask us all, because we are not only talking about means, but also about languages and methods of relationship, which are important and often can convey positive values. So let us face these issues with confidence, just as we must deal with the issue of security and cyber security with confidence and with great seriousness. Our vote will therefore be in favour: I believe that the Government, with the measure under consideration, has shown that it is able to deal with a complex issue in a competent and important way. Maybe he's gonna come over and the citizens won't see it or think it's important. However, I believe that, at a time when we read in the newspapers facts that cause concern, this is a passage that can give us confidence in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u57	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, representative of the Government, the Government finally submits a useful measure to us and, in order to do so - this is the reason for our appreciation - it has decided to issue a sovereignist decree-law, for the defense of our borders from illegal intrusions outside the EU. Unfortunately, however, we are only talking about the digital borders, because, as far as the physical ones are concerned, we have returned to the cholabrode of the borders, which we knew very well in the previous legislature, at the time of the Renzi and Gentiloni Governments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There would be a lot to say about this, but that is not the subject of today and it would not help anyway. The news and the numbers of the landings are under the eyes of all the Italians, who will keep them well in mind when they are called to vote in the next regional elections, starting with those of Emilia-Romagna, until the next political elections, which we hope will arrive as soon as possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are not, as has been said, opposed to this measure, because it comes from assessments and specific input of the government experience of the League. Even the entire article, relating to golden power, is nothing more than the literal reproposition of the decree not converted last summer by the Government Count 1. As you can see, unlike the former people's attorney, we keep our word on this. In a totally collaborative spirit, we have tried to suggest improvements to the text, in particular Article 1: for example, we have proposed to speed up the time when we have the cyber-defensive perimeter, but you have voted against it; we have proposed to extend it to the radio-television system, but you have voted against it. We wanted to introduce cloud driver solutions to ensure continuous, constant and secure control of infrastructure, but you voted against. We wanted there to be an exchange of information between all the authorities in order to combat terrorism, but you voted against it. We have also tried to make it clear that there is a flaw in the wording of the text. In fact, stakeholders are required to report accidents affecting their systems to the competent authorities. Well, throughout the decree-law there is no indication of what is meant by accidents. We have tabled an amendment to clarify the matter, but you have rejected it and you have not even accepted the suggestion to refer it to a subsequent measure. The real and real risk is that, if there is no full clarity, in the future we will find ourselves in the uncertainty with the risk of seeing innumerable disputes open. That is not the reason why we should not vote in favour of the decree, but rather declare our abstention vote. Although today the Government is giving way to last-minute adjustments and although some counterweights have been included in the other branch of Parliament, such as the involvement of the relevant parliamentary committees, we believe that this act confers too much power on the President-in-Office of the Council, especially since he is the President-in-Office of the Council. How is it possible to entrust security of digital borders to a Premier who has been called by the Copasir to clarify the possible distorted use of secret services to make the interest of a foreign power? The one who sold Italy in exchange for a blessing of Macron, Merkel and von der Leyen? What asked the German Chancellor for advice to limit the action of his deputy, as well as the Minister of the Interior? What brought back the borders of the sea a colob and bowed to the will of foreign NGOs? What doesn't blink if Germany sends us back the "dublinants," or if France dumps hundreds of illegals on the border with Piedmont and Liguria? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] No, I wouldn't trust him with the defense of my son's piggy bank, let alone the cybersecurity of the entire country. The League and the vast majority of Italians no longer trust "Giuseppi" Conte. If, as in one of the most famous maxims in political history, we were asked today to buy a car used by this man?So, we would reply again with a strong and convinced "no". It is a pity that in this House there are those who raced to buy, not a used car, but a second hand clutch. You'll soon see the deal you've made. Happy birthday. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] 11:34 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u60	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the modern world lead us to consider areas, such as cyber, until recently excluded from the debate on national security. The new technologies are the bearers of enormous opportunities, but also of dangers: from espionage to terrorism. We have the task of protecting national security, the competitiveness of companies and giving a strong signal of how Italy wants to have a role of respect and not just a follower. If once the clash between powers was measured on the battlefields, then it also moved to space and finally to the cybernetic world. The recent debate on 5G between China and the United States is an example of this and in fact China, a great country that is applying an aggressive expansionist policy in every field, in the absence of respect for human rights and privacy, raises new questions and needs for greater protection on the part of Western democracies. The measure was welcomed by Forza Italia with the support of the Chamber of Deputies, aware of the need for intervention in this field. Entering on the subject, as my colleagues in Forza Italia rightly pointed out in the other branch of Parliament, we found the dictation of the decree-law acceptable in some points and a little less in others; however, we like to see how the role of the security manager, proposed also by other colleagues, is in line with our request to censor the chief information security officer (CISO). I believe it is a fundamental path to map the state of the art, to accept the requests of administrations, but above all to plan possible entrances of figures that can improve the minimum levels of safety. We cannot wait for the damage and then remedy it, it would be irresponsible: Forza Italia firmly states that we must act and do so immediately. In particular, we find it important to have identified a cybernetic national security perimeter, within which there are those who are required to comply with a series of information obligations in the context of the security of the technological infrastructures and the materials used, as well as a special regime in the case of supply contracts. Finally, even on the issue of the sale of shares in company capital, we believe it is fundamental and therefore acceptable to have provided for specific provisions, with the entire article 3 of the decree-law, concerning the networks of electronic broadband telecommunications with 5G technology. We also basically agreed on the decision to amend and coordinate the existing legislation on golden power in areas of strategic importance, contained in Decree-Law No 21 of 2012. We also support the extension, with Article 4, of the operational scope of the rules on special powers to be exercised by the Government in areas of high technological intensity. However, we are critical of Article 3, where, with regard to 5G, there is still too much retroactivity on existing contracts, considering that Italy is in a position of strong advantage on this technology, having been one of the first countries to equip it. The same criticality can be seen in the lack of an effective standard in the training of cyber security personnel; a lack that frankly leaves perplexed. We trust that the two appeals made to the Government by our colleagues in the House of Deputies will not be ignored. First of all, try to involve as much as possible the operators of the sector; secondly, undersecretary Castaldi, it will be essential that the government complies with the deadlines indicated for the adoption of the implementing measures. Take care. The longer the deadlines are exceeded, the more uncertainty in the sector will become. The more uncertainty there will be and the more fundamental ground there will be. Although there have been several critical issues, we think that national security and defence are issues on which not to bring political confrontation, but on which to work and collaborate between majority and opposition for the good of the country. In these times there is much talk of sovereignism, but true sovereignism means protecting the national interest, even at the cost of taking a step backwards. We would certainly have preferred that our proposals, formulated with sense and competence and listening to experts in the field, were more considered; however, we think that the security of our country comes before any political dispute. I conclude by pointing out how important we believe that figures (at least one) are involved in the boards of directors of the participants of next appointment, that they can make a qualified contribution in the matter of cybernetic safety independently; doing so, we would give a clear signal to Italy and its strategic and participated companies. We want to give importance to a subject that we too often hear about, but which does not translate into reality. I have to register, with a certain favor, a positive and collaborative attitude on the part of the Undersecretary Castaldi, for the agendas of the day that were accepted on behalf of the Government. This is a sign that we have understood very positively: on certain issues, when there is a desire to cooperate, our political movement is always of the opinion that contributions, even if they come from the opposition, can and, sometimes, must be taken into account by the Government. This is something which we have not forgotten and which we are pleased to see and which, together with my colleague Mr Schifani, has drawn up an agenda which was accepted by the Government during the Commission's work yesterday, we were very pleased to hear. It is also for this reason that Forza Italia announces its abstention vote. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u63	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, what we are about to vote on is a strategic measure of great importance, which looks to the future and represents a sign of discontinuity with regard to the way in which priority issues for public administration, business and citizens are addressed. In this country, in fact, for too long there has been an intervention as a matter of fact; Today, however, we are voting for a measure which introduces a series of measures aimed at creating a national security perimeter, in order to ensure the networks, information systems and computer systems necessary for the performance of functions or the provision of services from which discontinuity may result in prejudice to national security. This is therefore a measure which puts in place measures to prevent possible future attacks and to create a structure capable of ensuring greater security in cyberspace, not only for public administrations, but also for private entities operating in sectors of national interest. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] When we talk about cyberspace we refer to a technology that involves defence systems, the provision of primary services, telecommunications, financial services and physical devices in our possession, all potentially subject to cyber attacks. In this regard, I would like to recall the hacker attack on 12 November 2018 that hit as many as 500,000 certified e-mail boxes, of which about 98,000 concerning magistrates, military and officials of the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic. The incident was called alarming by the Security Information Department, because it had involved infrastructure until then considered safe. Immediately, the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, responded by convening a technical meeting of the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic, which gave rise to a working group to study the capacity of all public and private services to deal with cyber attacks. It is precisely in this direction that the measure outlined by my colleagues is moving, of which I would like to stress, in view of the interventions concerning the specific field 5G, the importance of the introduction of the golden power standard, which extends to this technology the exercise of the special powers of the Government in the fields of defence and national security. Moreover, the possibility is introduced for the President of the Council, in the event of a serious and imminent risk to national security, to disable, on resolution of the Interministerial Committee for the security of the Republic, one or more computer systems affected, in order to ensure an immediate response. The measure that we have examined as a whole equips the country with finally suitable tools to face these new threats; it demonstrates the attention of the Government towards the proper functioning of public and private systems, to protect national security, citizens and businesses from disservices and economic losses. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u64	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u67	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Senator Rauti for asking the Senate to remember the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. On November 9, thirty years ago the Berlin Wall fell and the movement between the free world and the communist world was reopened, thus ending a division imposed by that political system. If we read today Wikipedia (I don't want to use my own words), it says that the official name of the Berlin Wall (in German Berliner Mauer) is Antifaschisticcher Schutzwall, which translated into Italian means Anti-fascist Protection Wall. In fact, the reason why it had been erected, according to the communists of Germany, was to protect the communist world from assaults from the West. It was considered a symbol of the Iron Curtain, a European border line between the areas controlled by France, the United Kingdom and the United States and the Communist one during the Cold War. Thirty years ago, under the pressure of a people who did not agree to be subjected to the communist yoke, the border was reopened by popular pressure and the Wall was demolished. Thirty years ago, Europe was once again free. For this reason, the 9th of this month has been declared a national holiday by Parliament, although no one remembers it, in schools there is no mention of it, and even in this House, at this time, there is a great deal of inattention, very different from the climate of other commemorations and celebrations. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Maybe it's someone's fig leaf to protect the silence that has been covering this date for many years. Even the Republic has re-enacted the event with an excellent insert. So, something's moving, though. I do not need to remember what that Wall meant: the dead, the wounded, the suffering and desperate attempts of those who simply wanted to cross that wall curtain, but also of hatred. I do not need to say that there were more than 250 deaths, as well as many imprisoned, wounded and divided families for thirty years. I do not need to remember that the fall of that wall represented for all of us, young people of that time, who did not accept the division of Jalta, something to be cut down spiritually before materially. Since my political side could perhaps be accused of verbal extremism in remembering the Berlin Wall, I will not prolong and use instead the words of a person above any suspicion, whose name I will say in the end, if any of you should not recognize it. These are words spoken in Berlin two years after the wall had been erected, before it was further fortified, before there was a second wall, before there were concrete and metal bars, before there were further deaths. In this speech this man of state says: There are many people in the world who do not understand, or do not know, what the great problem is between the free world and the communist world. Get them to Berlin! There are some who say that communism is the wave of the future. Get them to Berlin! There are some who say that, in Europe and elsewhere, we can work with the communists. Get them to Berlin! And there are also those few who say that it is true that communism is an evil system, but it allows us to make economic progress. Last sie nach Berlin kommen! Get them to Berlin! [..] All free men, wherever they live, are citizens of Berlin, and therefore, as a free man, I am proud to say: Ich bin ein Berliner! I'm a Berliner!I'm Jonh Fitzgerald Kennedy. [[Applause from the FdI Group, Senator Bonino and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u70	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to thank Vice-President La Russa for his idea of reminding this House of a very important date for our history: thirty years ago the Berlin Wall fell, whose construction represented one of the most dramatic pages of the contemporary history of the twentieth century, with the division between the European countries which fell under the yoke of Communism and the Soviet Union. Democracy was overthrown, with the strength of ideas. They did not serve tanks, they did not serve demonstrations of force: the only great unbearable element, which succeeded in scratching that very great ignoble wall, was the strength of democracy. In the confrontation between the blockade of the countries of the Soviet Union and the blockade of the European democratic countries, on that dramatic day, after months and months of weariness, after a historical event that marked the contemporary world, the power of freedom and democracy prevailed. I visited East Berlin in the past years, in the years when the wall was there. I remember my first visit in 1973: I was 18 years old and took part in a training course of the Adenauer Foundation in West Berlin. With a group of young people, many of whom I later found on Parliament's benches in Christian Democracy and other parties, I entered that sort of ghostly city that was East Berlin. Coming from West Berlin, we young people were amazed at how the world could not understand the difference there was. A ghostly and dark city, where people were sad and frightened; and, on the other side, the window of the West. I visited Berlin several times before the fall of the Wall and I invite all of you to go see it today: a wonderful city in our world, a great city in which an extraordinary ruling class, led by that contemporary giant who was Helmut Kohl, was able in a short time to approve the city and to grow also East Berlin as West Berlin. Let us remember what happened after the fall of the wall and German unification: I remind you of Kohl's dramatic choice, which also cost him the re-election, to establish equality between the east and the west mark, because the east mark was clear to all that it had a virtually non-existent value compared to the west mark. That choice laid down the conditions for the creation of the unified German Federal Republic, which I believe is also a point of reference for us Italians and a fundamental ally, in good and bad luck. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this very brief speech by paying tribute to the great personalities of history, of different visions, which allowed that wall to fall. The first, which I had the great honour of receiving in Parliament, was John Paul II. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, FdI and IV-PSI Groups]] Without that great Pope there would not have been the possibility of such a rapid fall of communism. The other is Gorbachev, who made a choice at the price of huge misunderstandings in his country, to the point that today he is a leader certainly not loved by the Russians, indeed the Russians in some way hate him. That choice to avoid pulling out of the barracks the Soviet tanks allowed the wall to fall in peace, without bloodshed, after many - as Senator La Russa recalled - died just to pass that wall on one side and on the other. Finally, Ronald Reagan, who, after the famous speech Ich bin ein Berliner (Anch'io solo un berlinese) of Kennedy, two years before the fall of the wall, with a similar speech, gave a great contribution. These are personalities who have been giants in history and I think they should be remembered, because Parliament must not only legislate but also cultivate the value of memory intact. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD, FdI and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u73	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, 30 years ago, I believe that we all participated in that popular festival that was the destruction of the Wall. We shared the joy of the Berliners, who after twenty-seven years regained possession of their city, of the Germans who lived the end of the nightmare, of the peoples of the East who finally saw freedom at one step. We all thought and hoped then that the world was moving on, once and for all. For those who, like me, fought in the pacifist movements and who fought every day in the 1980s to ward off the threat of war and destruction, that hope was even more intense. That wall was much taller than its three and a half meters and much longer than the 155 kilometers. That wall was the symbol of the division of the world, of the ever latent threat, of the degeneration of a system that, born with the objective of freeing mankind, had become an oppression. It became almost suddenly possible, or at least it seemed to us, to imagine a world without wars, but also a world where it was possible to reconcile the values of freedom with those of social justice. After three decades, without giving nostalgia for systems that oppressed their citizens and without any regret for a division into blocks that held the world under the sword of Damocles of total destruction, we must say with frankness and sadness proportional to the joy of that time that hopes have proved to be largely illusory. The great Wall has fallen, but a myriad of small walls has taken its place and continues to multiply. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] 12:03 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). Of course, there is no longer the threat of world war, at least for now, that seems to be out of the picture; in its place, however, has emerged the reality of a world torn apart everywhere by national, ethnic, racial and religious fierce wars, in which rise the ghosts of racism, nationalism and intolerance. The nightmare of the nuclear holocaust no longer accompanies us daily, but the empire of a logic based only on profit has rapidly increased equally deadly threats to our planet. Overall, the world and even our societies have not become more just, but often less free. Perhaps then we should have listened more carefully to Pope John Paul II, the pontiff who had worked as few others to break down that wall, but who immediately afterwards warned of the dangers that victory involved and the elements of degeneration implicit in the social and economic system that no longer knew rivals and therefore no longer brakes. Today we cannot but celebrate the great historical transformation that took place thirty years ago, but at the same time we cannot even really celebrate it, because the promises of that time have not been kept and we have not been able to realize the possibilities that that transformation opened. In a sense, that work was left in half, as Pope Wojtyła suggested. If we fail to complete it by breaking down the new walls, the visible ones and the invisible ones, those that rise on the borders and that of a social injustice never so profound, we will find ourselves - indeed, we are already - in a situation as dramatic as that of the world at the time of the Wall. The hope for us is in those hundreds of thousands of young people who manifest all over the world, with other flags and apparently for different causes, but who actually resemble very much the young people who in the 1980s manifested everywhere and who gave their fundamental contribution to the fall of that Wall and at the end of that nightmare. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u76	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the story we remember today actually tells three or none: if it is none, it would be enough to read the wall in the way of Banksy, so that the wall has two faces, a grey one, looking towards the old East Berlin, and a coloured one, looking towards West Berlin, then towards the West. These three stories, however, are and have marked the lives of many - if not of each of us - starting with the first that the wall tells in its construction and its collapse, that is the end of a century. The great historians, Hobsbawm in the lead, wrote that the '900 is the shortest century in the history of human civilization, because it begins with a delay of twenty years, at the end of the First World War, and ends with the fall of the Wall, then eleven years before the end of the century and 2000. Indeed, it is an extraordinary and very long century, that of the ecatombs and the Holocaust. This is the reason why the end of that century, which the collapse of the Wall bears witness, indicates to Banksy a hymn to happiness and the triumph of joy (and, not by chance, he chose to use Beethoven the night after the fall of the Wall). The second story that the fall of the Wall tells is the struggle between two civilizations, not its civilization, Senator La Russa [[Ironic applause from Senator La Russa]] , but the history of two others, the Christian one of western social-democratic Europe and the one - defeat - of communism in the world. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). It's not mine! What's mine, Communist? Shame on you! [[Senator Ferrazzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u77	President La Russa, I would like to remind you, as the Presidency is responsible; do not interrupt. Please, Senator Nencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u78	NENCINI (IV-PSI). I am happy to continue and, indeed, Mr President, I shall now explain. The struggle between two civilizations, the struggle between a Europe that was born in the immediate post-war period with two objectives: to rebuild itself, itself and create a bulwark both against fascism, which had devastated it for twenty years and, of course, against Nazism, and against communism, which had occupied and was dominating, Stalinism in the case, Eastern Europe and not just the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union, on the other hand, builds that wall for equal and opposite reasons. The newly born Western Europe is the physical and geographical representation of fascism and, therefore, must be fought and that wall is the physical representation of that battle. The truth is that the two civilizations that confront each other - and will win the Christian and Social Democratic Europe - defeat a vision of the world that had turned out to be wrong and that had proved to be above all the most amazing illusion placed in the human soul. This opens, and I conclude, the third story of that Wall. The third story and the third story is the story of a betrayal and a fiction. All dictatorships, whether communist or on a nationalist basis, are born and rely on deep human feelings, because they promise palinogenesis and secular resurrection. The Wall testifies that there was neither secular resurrection nor palingenesis, but the drama of a people multiplied by many peoples. There was the betrayal, the fiction was in many houses close to ours, because the one who saw did not have the courage to say. This was an extraordinary fault that many have also been guilty of in the West. I conclude by quoting a great poet who was senator for life only for a few months, Mario Luzi, who left us with a sentence, not with a poem because he was a poet, but also a great writer. There is no warning in the fall of that Wall, there is no morale, there is only one teaching. Freedom - says Mario Luzi - is a gym to go to every day. If you don't go, it'll dry out. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Mr Misto-Leu. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u81	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, the day of the fall of the Wall was the day of happiness, but also the day of shame. But the young men will erase the wounds of the Wall; these were the words of Helmut Kohl. I start here to give a key reading to an extraordinary historical event. That collapse was the end of a system that was destined to collapse because it was embedded in itself, in a vicious circle of absence of political freedom, civil and free economic initiative. That day was one of the highest moments in our history that brought with it a message of freedom and stitching of Europe, of reunification, of what writer Christa Wolf called "The divided sky." That day marked a deep watershed, a revolutionary bush between before and after. Today, if we do not want to reduce ourselves to a mere rhetorical dissertation in this House, we must honestly ask ourselves whether apart from the inestimable value of the victory of the principles of democracy and freedom, the liberal emphasis with which some of the collapse of the Wall was accompanied and the weakness of the world's progressive movement, have not allowed the full potential for change to be realized. What I'm saying is that, after the wall collapse, not all fortunes have been magnificent and progressive. Big questions still question us. I quote a few: the advent of a voracious and immoral financial turbulent capitalism, the naive and guilty idea that it should be allowed to do without national, European or world controls (an idea that has devastated the veins of the Planet, leading us to the crisis of our day); the advance of a globalization, precious for some, and painful for others, without the latter being protected; the frightening growth of the rate of iniquity and inequality. Freedom without equality is an orphan. Moreover, the decline of liberal and representative democracies, which even the collapse had sealed as the main roads of the world: we should also ask ourselves about this, about the need to reinvigorate, to correct, but never to dismantle the architrave of representative democracy, relying, if anything, on mirages that can lead to leadership and even despotic and dictatorial regimes. I will conclude by quoting two other major issues. Certainly, after the collapse of the Wall, the European Union is strengthened, and Germany's union strengthens the European Union. It is a good thing, and it is a valuable utility, that Germany's unity for the European Union, but never fall into the risk of a Germanisation of the European Union. [[Applause from Senator Fazzolari.]] Finally, who rules the world? Who rules the world today, thirty years away from that historical fact? Two blocks, then; today, many, too many disturbing characters have in their hands the reins of the world; sometimes they are not even characters, but obscure and unknown shadows, unknown, without a capacity for democratic vision, multipolar cooperation, sharing risks and opportunities. Colleagues and colleagues, on these issues we should reason together and calmly, if we are to read history by drawing right and useful suggestions for the future of the new generations. [[Applause from the PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u84	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thirty years ago - let us imagine the scene - the spokesman for the East German era said: "The decision was taken to open the checkpoints. (...) If I have been correctly informed this order becomes effective immediately. From that day a Wall fell, a Wall that marked our history; a Wall that also marked our destiny, which also marked lives, men who died there. Last night I started to read the story of who was killed trying to climb over the Wall, and I would like to remember two children, Jörg and Lothar, who were ten and thirteen years old, who, in an attempt to cross the wall, were killed by gunshots by soldiers. Let's remember them, because it's right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] I took them as an example. You think the soldiers who killed them have even been promoted. Yet, we must look further; we must look to the future. That is why, when I see that only certain totalitarian regimes are recognized on the one hand, they are of the idea that both totalitarian regimes must be remembered, so also what the Soviet Union has done in those years: think that almost 21 million deaths have been estimated by the communist regime. If we really want to put an end to the word history we must recognize all the crimes and all the massacres of any regime [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] , as the European Parliament did a few months ago, remembering that both regimes must be punished. So, as far as I am concerned, we must look to the future, but remember what happened. Let me give you an example: it's like driving in the car. We look at the road and our goal; we want to see the future ahead, but when we make an overtaking, we have to look at the mirror to remember the past. That is what I believe we must all do. I would like to see this Parliament, too, in order to put an end to what has happened and to recognise all roads of any kind, recognised as being done by the European Parliament, where it has been stated that all regimes, left and right, must be condemned. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u87	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, today certainly represents an institutional memory, but also a personal one: I was eighteen years old and the collapse of the Berlin Wall I saw, like many others, on television and perhaps without those political categories of reading that I could have today after years of activity and political experience. I have a vivid memory of that night when peacefully the citizens of Berlin began to move freely from one side to the other, almost for enchantment, because I too had studied at school that the world was divided in half and that from that Wall you could not pass. In a peaceful way, in a festive atmosphere and unlocking bottles, the citizens of Berlin began opening cracks in the Wall with picks and hammers. The plates went down under the stunned gaze of the terrible guards of the Eastern Democratic Republic (among other things I, like many others, never understood why it had the adjective "democratic"). The physical symbol of the division between East and West fell, between the free and democratic countries of the Atlantic bloc and the countries of the Iron Curtain. That night symbolically represents the reunification of a symbolic city, which paradoxically was also the capital of European Nazi Fascism, the reunification of a dramatically and artificially divided people, the beginning of the path of unification of Europe that we know today, but above all the beginning of the end of the last of the totalitarian ideologies that have bloodied and oppressed Europe of the twentieth century. It represents the beginning of the fall of communist totalitarianism in Europe: in a short time the wind of democracy and freedom blew over the whole of Eastern Europe. In Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, until the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics fell these regimes. The oppressive regime of the German Democratic Republic has undoubtedly been defeated by history, by the desire for freedom of people, by the ability - they have remembered even before colleagues - by the determination and military deterrent, pervicaciously wanted by an enlightened President, whom I want to remember, like Ronald Reagan, who put NATO and the United States in the front row in this battle. Above all, he fell because of the capacity of John Paul II, an enlightened pontiff who knew how to ignite individual consciences and peoples on the drama of communist totalitarianism of the Eastern countries, bringing a message of freedom and worldliness that the church had never known and had the courage to give before. The night of November 9, 1989 is, therefore, the end of a season in which the world was divided in half. Today it is right to remember all the people who fought for freedom and for the fall of that Wall, especially the more than 150 people who lost their lives and all those who were oppressed by this crazy totalitarian ideology. Today we must remember above all that living in a free, democratic Europe and where we can move freely, even from an economic point of view, is not taken for granted. It's a vivid and beautiful memory. Above all, we are aware that today, thanks to that symbolic gesture of the fall of the wall, we can live in a free, peaceful and secure Europe. [[Applause from the FI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u90	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 November we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Day of Freedom, to remind us of the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Italian Parliament, in fact, in 2005 established the annual commemoration of what is considered the symbol of an epochal passage in the history of the contemporary West. It was the end of an era, of a world in which two different visions of society had materialized their ideological opposition through a physical barrier, which represented the Cold War, which had materially separated citizens of the same nation, united by values, culture, kinship, language, customs and traditions. This legacy of hatred, which generated suffering and resentment, lasted for twenty-eight years and in the end died out under the drive of cultural and value cohesion of the town of Berlin, which had for years left behind the faults of the Third Reich. It is not the defeat of an idea, it is the epochal passage to a new vision of the world, which tends to conform, it is the beginning of the end of ideologies, which marks a phase of reformism for all the Italian political parties, essentially decreed the progressive extinction. From this historical phase came only one winner: the unique thought of a substantially globalized world. These are historical courses and resorts, lived in the Greek world through the passage from the time of Sparta and Athens to the Alexandrian period, the first form of globalization of the Western world and, in the Roman world, in the transition from the divisions between optimates and populares of the late Republic to the Empire, which embraced from the Black Sea to Morocco, from Britain to North Africa, from Spain to the area of the Rhine and the Danube. Today, in the thirty years of the beginning of the demolition of the Berlin Wall, the substantial presence among the benches of the Parliament and the Italian government of the Movimento 5 Star, which constitutes the overcoming of traditional parties and ideological barriers and which, wanting or flying, is marking the step of change also in the other political groups is emblematic of a need, a need felt by citizens to find in the values of law, honesty, transparency, respect for the environment and social justice those points of reference, which slowly, in these thirty years in which a world has been demolished, have been swept away by Berlusconism first and then neoliberalism. A new era was born, from the ashes of hatred and from the façade contrasts of today's traditional parties, which merely interpret, with different sensitivities, the unique thought marked by the laws of the market. A new Renaissance has begun, which finally places man at the centre of politics and restores to him those points of reference, which had disappeared in the cosmic vacuum left by the progressive disappearance of more visions of society, which above all, after the transition to the single currency, had now assumed the connotations of stereotypes without any credibility. Today the traditional parties represent, thanks to rhetorical instruments of an ever lower level, the banality of hatred for the armor, that is the hypocrisy of the so-called beautiful souls, as different performers of the same score. In the unbelieving and happy embraces, in the images of thirty years ago at Checkpoint Charlie we read the relief of a humanity, which is found in its universal values of solidarity, brotherhood and justice. The beers offered free of charge by the owner of the border bar to the citizens of Germany returned together describe, with relief, the recovery of the feeling and reason lost at the table of Yalta, because there is no wall that human hand can erect against the unity of the values and culture of a people, which sooner or later is not demolished and removed. As a permanent reminder of the human madness that has erected it, today remain the crosses of the citizens, who have lost their lives in an attempt to overtake it, murdered by the border guards, the Berlin Wall Memorial and some spared traits to the demolition, not to forget. To us who sit in this House the books of geography, a discipline that today has lost autonomy and dignity in school curricula, represented a different world, split in two, as the Calvinian Visconti halved, Medardo di Terralba, half good and desirable, half dark and fearsome. Today that the mists of the Iron Curtain have dissolved in the fraternal embrace of the German people gathered, after thirty years we have a Germany that has risen from its ashes for the second time, despite two lost world wars and heavy penalties paid. This ability to recover is the result of the industriousness of its people and of a civic awareness and dignity that today gives it a leading role in Europe. Celebrating the anniversary and fall of the Berlin Wall is today celebrating the birth of a new citizenship, the European one, with its cultural identity, which is no longer the one that brings the imprinting of the culture of overseas, nor of the individual Member States, but it is a set of values and cultures, which live peacefully together, enriching one another of their diversity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u91	Colleagues, before suspending the sitting, since I have received some requests for comments on items not included on the agenda, it being understood that at the end of the sitting this afternoon, of course, further speeches at the end of the sitting, if there are no objections from the Groups, will be permitted to speak to those who have requested it. Not making any comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u94	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I believe that the reason for my speech will be understood by my colleagues. I just learned about Mrs. Maria Pia Fanfani's disappearance. So I thought it necessary that the Senate Assembly should remember it (if there are other initiatives, well come) and not only because Mrs Fanfani - whom many of us had the honour and privilege of knowing and accompanying in social, humanitarian and cultural initiatives - was the consort of one of the most important political representatives of the Italian post-war period, Amintore Fanfani: several times president of the Senate, minister and person whom Mrs. Maria Pia accompanied until the last years of her life with great dedication. I remember that, in the previous legislature, as Vice President of the Senate, I had the opportunity to hold at the Zuccari Hall of Palazzo Giustiniani a ceremony for the publication of a further volume on the texts of Fanfani, to which Ettore Bernabei and other people participated who shared with Fanfani in various ways a long political and cultural experience. Also on that occasion Mrs. Fanfani was present in the Senate. She is a woman who has distinguished herself, not only because she was the wife of a protagonist of Italian life, but because of her activity with the Red Cross, for her attention to cultural and artistic life and for the attention to the political world, also here in the Senate, where she has often had the opportunity to participate in various events (I recalled the last of a few years ago, but in the past certainly even more). I thought it was right that the Senate should dedicate a moment of remembrance to a protagonist of the Italian political, social and cultural life that we all remember with regret, expressing condolences from the whole Assembly to the whole family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u95	The Assembly joins the family's condolences and the memory of Mrs Maria Pia Fanfani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u98	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can a person do harm without being evil?He wondered Hannah Arendt thinking about the banality of evil. In 2019 a woman who testified to the absolute evil and horrors of the twentieth century, to whom a totalitarianism wanted to remove the dignity of identity, imposing her to become the number 75190, which carries tattooed on the skin, senator of the Republic, Mrs. Liliana Segre, from now on will live under escort. What country is Italy becoming if you want to forget history, if you want to impose the politics of hatred? If the word fascism doesn't give you the creeps anymore? If being anti-fascist and therefore democratic no longer constitutes a founding value of our society? Norberto Bobbio warned us that we have lost the intransigence, the rigor, the revolutionary courage, the global vision of phenomena and the repudiation of any form of fascism. When you persecute the persecuted, only because you are witnesses; when you forget about those humiliated bones, those victims become ashes; when you do not notice that the burnings of the books, like that of the anti-fascist library "The electric sheep," given to flames a second time; when you do not realize therefore how these facts bring back to memory other burnings, other squadrista incursions, then you do not realize that to be in danger is the democratic thought: it is us and our freedom. It is our duty never to forget the essential values of our Constitution, today unworthyly trampled on and treated as useless tools - Bobbio will say - while, on the contrary, they are the cornerstones of our civil life. It is the duty of the State to be strong and protective, while guaranteeing each of us to express our personality, but respecting and accepting the law as an essential norm of coexistence. What happens in our country seems to lead in an increasingly serious way towards a climate that has nothing to do with democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, is this the task to which we are called? Have we forgotten? Do we want to give in to a theory of hatred, fear, absolute evil, the strongest that wants to annihilate the weakest? I hate the indifferent - Gramsci wrote - those who really live cannot but be citizens and partisans. It is a question of freedom, of the future, of democracy. We can no longer remain silent, we raise our voices, not only in this House, but everywhere in the country. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u101	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am speaking on behalf of the League to express sorrow and deep anger at violent people, the ignorant violent and miserable who force Senator Segre to live under escort. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] This is a defeat of respect, but above all of memory, so we express sadness and deep solidarity with a woman who, alive, today is a light in the darkness of hatred. I therefore wish the two Carabinieri who will escort our dear Senator Liliana Segre and I warmly thank all the men and women who in uniform today and tomorrow escort the men of our homeland. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u104	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking only to remind the House and also to the House of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the events that have taken place in the Il Forteto community. It has now been four months since that institution, the Commission has been summoned and dismissed twice, and today they have arrested the person responsible, because the judgment has gone to trial. I therefore really ask you, Mr President, to commit yourself to summoning this Commission, because it is absurd to tell the newspapers that we are going to do justice with the Committee of Inquiry to see what happened at the time, but once the founding rule has been adopted, do not yet have the courage to summon it. I really ask you, Mr President, to set a date for the start of the work. I cannot understand: in the last legislature the Movimento 5 Stars tried to complete the establishment of the Commission of inquiry but failed because it was in the minority; but now they are majority together with the PD and Italy Viva, so I hope that they will decide to convene the Commission of inquiry [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u105	Senator Bishops, of course the Presidency takes charge of what you have said, but the topic is already at the attention of the Conference of the Leaders from several sessions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u108	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this morning there was an important mobilization in Montecitorio in front of the Chamber of Deputies with many representatives of the farmers of our country who joined many mayors from all over Italy, Presidents of the Region, regional councillors and many other citizens. They have once again pointed out an issue which I myself, together with others, have already brought to the attention of this House. I am referring to the excessive presence of wild animals in our country and, more specifically, to the damage that wildlife causes to the agricultural world, but not only. They have been mentioned this morning, and I think we should also remember in this House, the thirteen deaths that have occurred in our country only in recent months due to the presence of wildlife in the streets. However, some circles in this House and in the Commissions remain deaf. We have not managed to bring the necessary attention to this problem in the right way and we have come to the mobilization in front of the House of Deputies. We have now reached the limit: Italian farmers can no longer see their work frustrated; Italian farmers can no longer see their cattle heads disappear, because some animals are more protected than those that they raise and that constitute a substantial part of the economy of our country. The call launched this morning by Coldiretti, I believe, must be brought back in a strong way to the attention of the Senate in the coming days, because the urgency, which is now inseparable, and the obligation to intervene on this subject require intervention precisely in the phase of discussion of the draft budget law, as proposed by the associations. We must all face this problem together, in a cross-cutting way, otherwise, by proceeding with this step, I believe that unfortunately we will go more and more towards a state of degradation in our country and this policy will give a signal of outrage to those who today work in the fields and only asks to modify a norm of 1992, enacted when the environment and the presence of wild animals in our country were very different from today. This 1992 rule must be updated and adapted to the control of fauna, especially in the respect of those who travel the streets and streets of this country and our farmers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u109	I remember that the senators who want to intervene again at the end of the session will be able to do so at the end of the afternoon session, obviously signaling their intention to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u110	I bring to the attention of the Assembly the request of the Government to anticipate from 16,30 to 16, the expected participation of minister Patuanelli. We will of course make the appropriate changes to the resumption of the session, scheduled for 3 p.m., giving the exact timing of the beginning of the Government's communications in the Assembly, with Minister Patuanelli. (The sitting was suspended at 12:37 a.m. and resumed at 15:01 a.m.) The session is resumed. I inform you that, as requested by the Government and agreed with the Groups, the information of the Minister of Economic Development Patuanelli is anticipated at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u111	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Minister for Equal Opportunities and Family will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Steger has the right to explain question 3-01218 on the transposition of European legislation on fluorinated gases for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u112	Minister, European Regulation No 517 of 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases provides for regular checks of losses on fixed refrigeration installations containing fluorinated greenhouse gases beyond a certain quantitative limit, the allocation of quotas for the placing on the market of hydrofluorocarbons by producers and importers and the obligation to establish and maintain, for each equipment, a special register of fluorinated gases in order to monitor compliance with the allocated quotas. The European legislator has therefore expressly identified precise quantitative limits, after which the obligation to monitor any losses arises and, consequently, the obligation to keep the relevant register. As explained in my question, the Italian legislator has regulated the implementation of the European Regulation with DPR No 146 of 2018, introducing the new obligation of communication to the database managed by the Chamber of Commerce, but according to provisions that are in fact stricter than provided for by European legislation and that, as is all too often the case, involve more bureaucratic burdens for Italian companies than the current obligations, for the same types of companies, in other European countries. In this particular case, Minister, I would ask you to know whether you do not consider it appropriate to remove the inconsistencies outlined in my question and put in place in the implementation of the European Regulation, with particular reference to the specific indication of the thresholds beyond which the obligation to communicate to the new database and to the different interpretation of the expression "for any subsequent intervention" would trigger, on the basis of which companies would currently be burdened by considerably greater obligations than those provided for in European legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u113	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u114	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Steger for his question because he allows me to take stock of the situation. As an extremely technical subject, allow me to read some written passages. The Regulation referred to on fluorinated greenhouse gases provides for the possibility for Member States to establish a national database for the storage of registers referred to in Article 6 of that Regulation. In order to implement the provisions of Article 6 and to collect, in a homogeneous manner, all information, as provided for in a special decree of the President of the Republic, a database was established for the collection and storage of information relating to the sales of fluorinated greenhouse gases and equipment containing such gases. In particular, it is noted that this decree of the President of the Republic does not introduce obligations of control of losses other than those provided for in the same European regulation of reference, while the obligation of keeping records, as specified in Article 6 (implemented precisely by the Government), is now resolved through an online transmission procedure, therefore much faster. Moreover, this regulatory provision, which has been subject to long negotiations, has been welcomed by the main associations of specific sectors and by all those consulted during the consultation phase, in order to be able to approve it. It was introduced in place of an already existing obligation, represented by the so-called F-gas declaration, which had repercussions on some 305,000 operators. So we have already made a significant simplification. With the introduction of the database and with a monthly update frequency directly through this platform, the above process has been simplified. This transposition allowed the transition from a paper registration system to an online one. Now, compared to what you say, we have already provided for a strong deburocratization and simplification. However, I would like to add that if there is an additional need for simplification and de-bureaucraticisation or better interpretation than the regulation, which has not been observed by the European Union (you know that, when implementing a transposition decree, this must be clearly sent to Europe and Europe has told us that it was fine), but, if it can still be done better, in the simplification and de-bureaucraticisation to which you referred in fact (to reduce costs), I ask you for the courtesy of setting up a technical meeting at my Ministry, in order to verify together the contents. I believe that this is the best way to tackle this issue in practice. Your question also makes me comfortable to represent with Italian pride, which you will surely agree with, the fact that today in Rome we inaugurated MOP 31, on the ozone hole. Therefore 198 countries in the world today are guests of the Italian Government, to reason on the ozone hole and on the climatic gases. We are implementing the Kigali amendment, which is precisely the reference element in relation to the fluorinated gases to which you referred. I am proud to say that, because Italy is at the forefront of this; at the moment we are working precisely with regard to the question that you raised. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u115	Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u116	Thank you, Minister, especially for the opportunity you will give us to meet at the Ministry with your collaborators. This request was made to me by the Chamber of Commerce, which obviously, as you know, represents all the companies, especially the many small companies in the different sectors. I will follow this invitation and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u117	Senator Arrigoni has the right to explain the question 3-01222 on initiatives to promote the recycling of plastic materials, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u118	Minister, the plastics industry is one of the driving forces of our country's economy. Overall, the sector is worth 40 billion, with 10,000 companies and 150,000 employed, of which 50,000 are only in packaging. According to the Centro studi associato nazionale di Confindustria, in 2017 the manufacturers of packaging and packaging machines included 228 companies in Emilia-Romagna, 178 in Lombardy and 75 in Veneto. Out of a total of 7 billion turnover in this specific sector, only Emilia-Romagna marks more than 4.4 billion, i.e. 62 percent of the total, and a number of employees equal to 17,000 people, almost three times Lombardy. Today several companies pursue innovative ways and new technologies able to contain, limit and reduce to zero the environmental impact and to create economic wealth from the potentially harmful rejection. In the circular economy, in fact, which is the basis of the recycling and recovery of materials, every refusal becomes resource and source of wealth (if there were, however, ministerial decrees on the end of waste, which are late to arrive): this shows that you can do industry at the same time protecting the environment. Many European countries are helmers of the circular economy in the field of plastics: in Germany, for example, virtuous ways have been adopted for years, through the development and regulation of public-private participation, in order to stimulate economically the virtuous behaviour of citizens in the collection of materials destined for recycling. Our country, which on the one hand always shows awe at North European models imposed by the technocratic structures of Brussels, often not suitable for our social and legal culture, on the other is incapable of transposing good practices, in fact proven efficient and as such reproachable also in our system. It happens that in Italy the simplest way is always adopted, penalising the productive world and not encouraging the virtuous behaviors that citizens could assume with more far-sighted policies. The plastic tax is a clear example of this: to make cash (2 billion a year), you do not penalise bad behavior, but products, therefore our businesses, workers and finally consumers. In Germany, for example, recycling values the vacuum to render through the collection made directly by the consumers, who return the containers directly to the retail outlets of the large distribution, receiving in exchange coupons that can be spent within the same structures. The above, Minister, to ask you whether you do not think it appropriate to take action to launch a rapid study of the feasibility of policies to combat environmental pollution, encouraging the virtuous behavior of citizens, including through chapters of public-private partnership agreements, aimed at putting in place a real system that does not sanction our industry, but at the same time is capable of developing a real circular economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u119	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u120	Thank you, Senator Arrigoni, for your question allows me to take stock of the situation on matters which, in addition to being on the agenda, also have a history linked to the previous law of stability, and therefore to rules already adopted, on which, as you will recall, we have worked together. I refer in particular to the three implementing decrees that are now in production, part of which has also been worked together: the first is on the use of the tax credit for companies that purchase products made from materials from the separate collection of plastic packaging; the second is on the facilitations and the tax credits for the use and the start of recycling of reusable packaging; the third is on the certifications suitable to attest the nature and the types of materials produced, for the purposes of tax relief on recycled products, of which plastics are also a predominant part. These are the decrees of reference of the law of stability of 2019, to which - as you will recall - we worked together. In addition, there is the waste package, launched in the previous government as transposition and coming to a close in the coming months, which concerns the so-called four European directives in this area. I do not mention them, because it would be a technicalism which in this House has nothing to do with it, but many of them concern plastic, not exclusively but in a meaningful way. In the context of the transposition, moreover - as you will recall, because we talked about it - we also had the possibility of refreshment mechanisms for the host municipalities installations of these agencies, as well as incentives and premiums for the municipalities which have additional separate collection, in a significant way for plastic. With regard to the last forecast, namely that of the stability law, as you know, I have already put forward proposals, in particular on incentives. The current tax credit for companies producing regenerative and recoverable compostable plastics is 10% and I hope it will be well raised. As well as the aid mechanism for all companies that want to pass through the new system. Similarly, for example, in the so-called climate decree, I would like to imagine plastic-eating machines, which also help citizens, and in this respect there is a government amendment, on which I call on Parliament to reflect. What do I mean? In essence, there is the full intention of creating mechanisms that push towards the ecological transition rather than depressing it, and I fully agree with that. In this sense, in my opinion, a mixture of taxation that becomes of purpose, changes the system because if it is of purpose, it is no longer revenue, but it is part of the green transition system, returning to the same companies in the form of incentives. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u121	Senator Arrigoni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u122	Minister, I am not very satisfied with the answer you gave. First of all, it has not made a commitment to the start, although experimental, of the vacuum system to make, which could certainly allow the pursuit of the circular economy. As for the tax credit, which you have introduced in the area of Cesarini, on the norm of the plastic tax, it sweetens, but by little, the substance of the norm: you give 30 million euros of tax credit to the enterprises, but in reality, to these enterprises, you suck 2 billion taxes on regime, starting from 2021. No, that's not how it's done. This is not how the circular economy is pursued. The plastic tax goes against the circular economy, it goes against products, it goes against businesses and workers, it also goes against consumers, who will find themselves forced, next year, to support 110 euros more spending on the purchase of these products. We must not proceed in this way. The transposition of directives, dear Minister, please, must be done in a timely manner. For example, on disposable plastic Europe tells us that the deadline is 2021: we do not take the longer step of the leg. I would inform you that yesterday we put a parliamentary question about the fact that the introduction on the market of so-called compostable plastics, not governed by guidelines, is causing enormous problems to composting plants, a question that we have put to you: the composters need precise answers from your Ministry. We do not run, otherwise we risk only harming the circular economy and especially the economic world of our companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u123	Senator Tiraboschi has the right to explain the question 3-01217 on investments to support an effective waste treatment strategy for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u124	Minister, the question dates back to about 15 months ago, but I do not think the numbers have changed much. We learn from authoritative sources of printing that about 12% of Italian waste is not destined, with the result that these waste accumulates without directing either to recycling or to disposal, as there are not enough plants. We know that Italy is Europe's leader in recycling, unlike other countries that prefer to burn or start waste in landfills, but there are not enough plants for selection, regeneration, treatment and energy recovery, which would be necessary both to reach 65% of the recycling that the European Union requires, and to go down below 10% of landfill disposal. To achieve these objectives, which are indicated by the European Union, important investments would be needed, new plants for the recycling of organic waste for at least 2.3 million tons per year and new incineration plants to dispose of about 1.7 million tons more per year, 53 new anaerobic management plants and at least 4 incineration plants: one in Campania of more or less equal size to those of Acerra, an equivalent in Sicily, one of medium size in the area of the Center of our country and one in Sardinia. It is clear, we all understand, that there is a risk of more use being made of landfills without the facilities. The North of Italy knows that it has fairly acceptable parameters, substantially balanced between the waste produced and the ability to treat them; The Centre is less than 16 percent and the South less than 27 percent. In Italy, if we leave out Lombardy and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, the gap between the waste and the plants turns out to be negative a little everywhere: from -3 percent of Veneto to -50 percent of Sicily (worried data), passing by -8 percent of Piedmont and -21 percent of Liguria. In the light of these data, which are certainly not comforting, we ask you what investments are aimed at supporting a medium to long-term strategy - we realize that it is not that from today to tomorrow everything is changed - on which our country is registering a very strong delay (and of this we must be aware). A strategy that aims at prevention and reuse but, at the same time, supports a new industrial course that serves to start this circular economy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Then, on the front of the energy transition from fossil to renewable energy sources, we ask what measures are being taken to support investment so that investment funds, which are aware of the high cost that must be incurred to extract fossil sources, invest in renewable energy by shifting a portion of their cash flows to support these investments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u125	Thank you, Senator Tiraboschi, for this question, for allowing me to take stock of the situation. Meanwhile, as Environment Minister, I would like to represent that we have recently produced many calls for new technologies, also helping in the direction you have kindly represented, which are precisely the new frontiers where Italy is, at a technological level, particularly ahead. These calls help - I think of those on WEEE, for example - and this makes a pair with everything that, as you know, this week is being celebrated in Rimini with Ecomondo, which is the largest worldwide manifestation on the circular economy and where much is being talked about the topics that you have outlined just now. I repeat what you said in your reply to the previous question: one of the points of reference is the forthcoming adoption of the four directives in the waste package, because in the process many of the issues you have raised will certainly be taken into account. Taking stock of the situation also means something else. Planting, as you certainly know, is a competence of the Regions, because today the regional plan of waste, therefore the plant, which means the typology and also the location (I think of composting, to which you referred), comes from the regional plan of waste. Therefore each Region goes to verify, according to the principle of territoriality, what type of plant (anaerobic, aerobic), what type of tonnage and therefore of capacity must have and where to place it, then adjusting according to the principle of proximity. Clearly, this is a reference on which we, as the Ministry of the Environment, stand side by side with the Regions - we cannot, of course, replace them - so much so that I have set up a task force of experts for those Regions that require it. So, there's the maximum of autonomy, but if we're asked for it, we stand side by side for a surplus of design and help. I would add - and I conclude - that the European principle of reference is the reduction of waste and the increase in the differentiation, even before all the other references that have been mentioned. The decline in waste passes through the circular economy: the rule on the end of waste has just been adopted, on a case-by-case basis, plus the controls on debts at national and regional level (which seems to me to be a beautiful conquest of Parliament), as well as the increase in the differentiation, which, among other things, is also driven by a series of incentives. If we do a couple of things about this, I think we will manage the transition properly, so that we can finally get closer to the European principles of reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u126	I renew the invitation to the Government and interrogators to a strict respect of the times. Senator Tiraboschi has the right to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u127	Minister, there are good intentions, but let me say two things. We hope that the calls for new technologies will not be so complicated, as has often been the case, to the point that in the end the resources remain on paper, in the notices, and are not used. I make, therefore, a recommendation and I also say it from a person who has worked in the public administration. With this task force are you at the side of the Regions? Well, FISE-ASSOENZIONE recently took a picture of the three regions that have the black shirt of Italy: Lazio, Campania and Sicily. Then truly stand beside these three regions, because they are really behind. I repeat: they have black shirts in our country. He didn't tell me anything about investment funds and, therefore, I would ask you to speak with the competent Minister, about the economy and the finances, as regards the use aimed at this sector of economy, with particular reference to the new instruments, which have not yet taken off. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u128	Senator L'Abbate has the right to explain the question 3-01219 on air quality in the city of Monopoli, in the province of Bari, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u129	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the citizens too, for you are giving voice to a very small territorial reality, but precisely because we are talking about air quality, we must start from the premises to reach the global level, as we are doing in the climate decree. Recently the citizens of Monopoli, in the province of Bari, have manifested through collecting signatures, exhibits, reports and concerns about the quality of the air of their municipality. This is a town of 50,000 inhabitants with a touristic vocation, with the presence of beaches of environmental prestige and hills with cultivation of olive trees and Mediterranean plants such as to make the city part of the sites of community interest (SIC). The city of Monopoli is awarded the title of tourist city and for several years has acquired the famous blue flag. Given that there are dominant winds in the area, which come from the West and South-West quadrants, due to these winds of maximum relapse expected should be those East and North-East. It is emphasized that the town of Monopoli is located in an area that is subjected to emissions coming from an industrial area, where there are a number of business realities. Unpleasing emissions have often been reported on the city, particularly under certain weather conditions, to the extent that the administration has been forced to activate an "odorigen" APP in order to report such incidents. There are two switchboards, already from 2009, located in two parts of the city, but in addition to this citizenship requires a possible other control. Other mobile control units have been in place lately, but this - apparently - is not enough, because we have, according to the ARPA Puglia data, a presence of benzopyrene, which is seriously worrying citizens about their own health and their family. More than 120 reports have been recorded on the application provided by the Municipality lately. It is asked to know, therefore, whether the Minister is in possession of additional data concerning the environmental risk for the city of Monopoli and whether he intends to activate instruments able to guarantee a more stringent control of the environment, as well as what already foreseen for the law by the ARPA Puglia; whether the Minister in address is aware of the facts mentioned above and what actions he intends to take to ensure the effective preparation of all the necessary controls and monitoring on the air quality of the city of Monopoli. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u130	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u131	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator L'Abbate for her question because, starting from a wonderful city like Monopoli, which I know of, we can say something more about smell and air quality. In the present case, I have found that between the Municipality of Monopoli and the Puglia Region there is - I speak of a few days ago - a continuous exchange of organizational correspondences, which are not dystonic, but which concern precisely those who do what and in what terms. ARPA Puglia confirms - and as a Ministry of the Environment we have established - that it is reorganizing and regenerating the system of the control plan also with reference to Monopoly, but not only. This already seems to me to be a positive element, which concerns the whole of Puglia and, in this case, the city to which we refer. As I said, I transmit, in the sense that it is a relationship that exists between Region, Municipality and, in the case at hand, the deputy, which is the ARPA. The Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, through the agency system, has an additional vision, but does not have a direct competence. What is interesting to say, for the benefit not only of Monopoli or Puglia, but of the Italian system is that, recently, article 272- bis of the single text on the environment allows to acquire at regional level the guidelines Smell. In essence, every Region can, if it wants - and in this sense it is autonomous - acquire these guidelines and make them the threshold level, in the blackberries of the national framework norm on odoriferous substances. I am saying this because it is important and because a regulation is before Parliament, which I call for soon to be adopted, at the signature of Mrs Ilaria Fontana, of the 5 Star Movement, on odoriferous substances. Then we will make the pair: on the one hand, the guidelines approved at regional level and, on the other, the national standard. At that point, the Region, through integrated environmental authorisations, will be able to define, in their renewal, how the threshold level must be, using the electronic nose, which is the control system, which, among other things, is Italian technology, or an Italian patent that represents a worldwide pride for Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u132	Senator L'Abbate has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u133	Minister, thank you and I am pleased with the answer. It is clear that citizens only smell molesting, but we also know that sometimes very carcinogenic substances do not smell, and that is what worries me most, knowing what is in that area. So, as competent, I say that on certain situations I will continue, as I have done so far, to be in contact with ARPA Puglia, which I must say was very careful and continues to keep me updated on what it is doing. Minister, thank you for your interest and that the Ministry is putting on the subject and I am truly convinced that we will be able to find a solution, for the citizens of this dear city, who would have liked to host you. They told me: "We want the Minister to come here and I told them: for now he answers us, maybe a tomorrow: you never know. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u134	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico Sportivo (Alessandro Volta) of Colle di Val d'Elsa, in the province of Siena, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u135	Senator Iannone has the right to explain the question 3-01221 on some inconsistencies that emerged regarding the discovery of the Riace Bronzes, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u136	Minister, the recent journalistic survey of the television show "Le Iene" has turned the spotlight on the controversial story of the discovery of the famous Bronzi di Riace and has told the story of what could prove to be one of the most resounding disappearances of works of art of antiquity. As is well known, the precious statues, dating back to the fifth century BC, were found in the summer of 1972 in Riace Marina and are currently exhibited at the National Archaeological Museum of Reggio Calabria. The disconcerting revelations, denounced by the transmission, concern the resounding inconsistencies between the documentation relating to the discovery and the findings actually found and now known. In the papers we talk about finding - I quote - a group of statues, presumably bronze and not just two. The description of the statues made by the diver, who discovered them, does not coincide with those known to us. In addition, among the artifacts received, at least one shield, a helmet and a spear that are instead mentioned in the discovery documents. From the television survey there also appears to be an eyewitness talking about the sale of a third bronze to American buyers. Therefore, the Group of Brothers of Italy (and specifically I, together with my colleagues Ciriani and Fazzolari who sign this question), asks whether the Ministry has elements to make clear in this that it would be a very serious affair that would configure a hypothesis of evading and losing parts or elements of accessories of the artifacts and what initiatives it intends to carry out in inspection terms to ensure that the Bronzes of Riace do not extend this very serious shadow for our culture.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u137	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u138	Mr President, as we have heard, I have been asked by Senator Iannone and other colleagues about a hypothesis about the presence of another statue and furnishings on the occasion of the discovery of the Bronzi di Riace. I would actually like to be able to come here with a spectacular announcement, but let me remind you that the possible existence of another bronze and other elements belonging to the sculptural group - namely a spear and a shield - has emerged as a hypothesis several times, since 1972 to the present day, and has been repeatedly brought to the attention of the judicial authority, because of news appeared in the press. The case studies carried out by the Core of Carabinieri for the protection of the cultural heritage of Cosenza, competent for Calabria, in agreement with the operational department for the protection of the national cultural heritage, have never brought effective feedback. To date, no feedback has ever been gained from the news published in the press. The Directorate-General for Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape of the Ministry, together with the Superintendence and the Carabinieri Command, will however evaluate, with all the necessary attention, the elements that should emerge in reference to the broadcast recently and that are innovative compared to what analyzed in the previous years. I would add that this morning there should have been a meeting between the above-mentioned Core together with the commanders of the local Carabinieri Company group with the Locri prosecutor in order to start the first investigations related to the transmission "Le Hyene" and the judicial authority has already requested the delivery of the videos of the episodes in order to proceed to a complete examination of what emerged during the program. Of course, if there are any new elements from the investigations, I will inform Parliament immediately. [[Applause from Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u139	I give the floor to Senator Iannone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u140	Mr President, I take note of the Minister's kind reply. I would just like to point out that in my opinion the greatest attention should be paid to this matter, despite the activity of investigation already carried out in the past years, because I believe that these finds represent the most important symbol of our cultural tradition and also represent not only the symbol of a great history but also, considering the number of visitors who have produced and that the Ministry certifies in exponential growth at the archaeological museum of Reggio Calabria, the symbol of a Region (the Calabria), of the south of Italy and of the whole Italy that wants to be reborn and return great. Culture is a fragment of eternity that helps us to live, so it deserves the utmost attention from those who represent the State. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u141	Senator Iori has the right to explain the question 3-01220 on liberal donations for Italian culture and artistic heritage, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u142	Mr President, in 2014 with the introduction of art bonus a measure of great value was produced, which allows to deduct 65% of the donations that individuals and businesses give to public cultural assets. We are talking about a measure inspired by the best European practices, in particular France, which aims to promote and strengthen the macro-mecenatism of the great sponsors, but also the micro-mecenatism of active citizenship and the liberalities of individuals, both natural persons and legal persons, profit and non-profit, for the protection and enhancement of our immense artistic heritage. This measure has proved effective and has also been extended to support live entertainment, bringing citizens closer to it and recreating and strengthening that identity that is the basis of a fruitful relationship between the cultural heritage that insists on a particular territory and the citizens who inhabit it. It is, therefore, a measure that has worked and that has succeeded in the enterprise to preserve and protect many artistic beauties of our country and therefore its deep identity. If there is a critical issue, perhaps it is the differences between the North and the South regarding the disbursements, in the sense that if the North proceeds with expedited step, in the Mezzogiorno of our country it is more difficult because there are some cultural assets that have not yet received any donation. Of course, it is not enough to decide to propose an asset for fundraising, but it is also necessary to stimulate potential donors and create a strategy in this respect. These positive aspects then indicate that we are talking about an instrument that can be further improved, talking about the possibility of making its impact on the country even more important. The question therefore calls for the results achieved so far by the liberal disbursements and what further initiatives the Minister intends to take to strengthen cultural patronage in support of that uniqueness of our artistic heritage, which is truly unique in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u143	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u144	Mr President, Senator Iori, in explaining the question, has already effectively explained the reasons - so I do not take them back - that in 2014 have pushed Parliament in a fairly shared way to introduce the art bonus with a tax incentive finally beneficial - invoked for years - for those who intend to make donations for the restoration and restructuring of our cultural heritage and also for cultural activities of museums, lyrical-symphonic foundations and other sectors. The balance sheet is absolutely positive, as the numbers show. With a measure that was initially introduced only in experimental form and then progressively transformed into definitive and extended to other sectors, there were 1,730 beneficiary bodies, 12,860 patrons (or donations), almost 400 million euros of donations paid out, over 3,300 interventions. Everything is censible and verifiable on the site "artbonus.gov.it". As you can see from the numbers, the balance is absolutely positive, unfortunately with territorial differences too strong in our country, as happens also in other sectors. To give you only some indications we had 149,000,000 euros of donations in Lombardy and 712,000 euros in Sicily, 45,541,000 euros in Emilia-Romagna and 1,442,000 euros in Sardinia and I could go on. There is an important gap, which must be filled through communication campaigns (which have been made and which we want to strengthen), through institutional advertising, through the introduction of territorial initiatives (more than 150 have been done) to illustrate the functioning of the art bonus and also through a prize, which we have created, for the best art bonus with a very participatory mechanism. Countries in the world that have a very strong tradition of philanthropy or patronage towards cultural goods - I think of France, the United States, the United Kingdom - have a very strong tax incentive system, which has lasted for decades. We have only had it for four years, not all citizens know it and do not know that it also applies to donations of EUR 1 or 10 and not only to large donations. The enterprises have not yet fully perceived it, indeed; yet there has been a lot of movement: especially the municipalities have been able to attract donations supported by the incentive of the art bonus. I believe that we should make a lot of promotion, so that even in our country the system of companies, and especially large companies, acquires the awareness that their products that are exported to the world make because Made in Italy has behind us, sometimes even unconsciously, the enormous strength of the centuries of beauty, knowledge and culture that are inside those individual products. Italy then helps them sell in the world. That is why I believe that the time must come quickly when all the great Italian companies will be judged, in the social impact of their budgets, also on the basis of how much they will donate to the cultural heritage of their country. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u145	Senator Verducci has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u146	Mr President, I thank the Minister for these words and for his commitment to relaunching and strengthening the instrument of art bonus, which for us is part of a more comprehensive commitment to putting culture at the centre of a new idea of development, for a country that is stronger, more cohesive, more supportive. Moreover, culture is an extraordinary multiplier of sociality, shared identity and citizenship; it is an extraordinary multiplier of economy, of gross domestic product, capable of supporting - as you said - our manufacturing on the international markets, our made in Italy. The art bonus has been able to bring new resources to the sector, has contrasted the problem of an offer too narrow compared to the enormous potential of our cultural and artistic heritage and has done so by introducing a new mentality: thousands of people, thousands of companies and banking foundations have adopted a monument, a show, a square, a theatre of their own territory. There has been, towards culture, a new consensus, a new widespread legitimacy, a new sense of belonging, so culture is not something else, but it is a living part of our daily way of being, of existence. This instrument must be strengthened, while making it known more, ensuring that there is greater continuity of resources, therefore of projects, not limiting it to only so-called charismatic places, the most important ones, but ensuring that it adheres to our thousand Municipalities, to our hundred Provinces, supporting young artists, contemporary art, multimedia art and allowing them to be protagonists in culture, to break down walls through culture, to make our country more inclusive, therefore safer, a country with more ideas, therefore freer, a country with more opportunities, therefore more just. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u147	Senator Conzatti has the right to explain the question 3-01223 on the implementation of the National Strategic Plan on Male Violence against Women, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u148	Mr President, Mr Bonetti, as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats, and as members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, we would like to put to you the reflection contained in this question on the issue of violence against women. It is a few hours ago the news that another woman is seriously injured because she was stabbed, while traveling on an Italian train, by a man she knew. Unfortunately, the issue of violence against women in Italy is particularly serious. It is serious for numbers: one in three women, between the ages of sixteen and seventy, have suffered some form of violence in their lives. We're talking about 8 million women. Every two days a woman in our country is killed. It is a structural phenomenon, in the sense that it is not an emerging phenomenon, it is not a peak. Unfortunately, it is a phenomenon that pervades our society and is constant. Therefore, although today it can be said that the Italian legal order has taken measures that are up to date, it is not enough to repress; it is very important to do a deep cultural work so that this phenomenon is finally eradicated. This is a cross-cutting phenomenon that affects all the cores of our society. 84 percent of the phenomena of violence take place within the home walls and see his heart and its root in a male behavior on which all institutions must work. The relationship of subordination that some men, with violent behaviors, claim is unacceptable in a rule of law such as contemporary Italy. We are aware that our Parliament has done a lot, with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2013, the adoption and financing of an Action Plan, as well as the adoption of the National Strategic Plan on Male Violence against Women. We therefore want to ask Minister Bonetti what else we can do and what other actions and areas of the Strategic Plan we can implement, including with regard to its governance, the steering booth and the technical plan. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u149	The Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Bonetti family have three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u150	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my personal concern and my solidarity with the woman who today has been the victim of yet another act of atrocities and inhumanity, to whom our institutions must give support and solidarity, but above all concrete commitment and precise political choices. The National Strategic Plan on Male Violence against Women sets out, for the three-year period 2017-2020, the strategic lines, objectives and Italian priorities for implementing the Istanbul Convention. The Plan confirmed the function of political level of programming and coordination, monitoring and verification of the steering booth. On 30 October, I chaired the meeting of the Governing Board, which saw the participation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Nunzia Catalfo, the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Fabiana Dadone, and the representatives of the other Ministries and Conferences involved. I can assure the will of myself and of the entire department to give full effect to anti-violence policies, which the Government considers a priority to be pursued with every effort. It is our intention to work immediately on the activation of the Operational Plan on Violence, which indicates the actions and related resources being implemented or to be implemented in the two years 2019-2020, on the basis of which has been confirmed the allocation of 30 million euros to be allocated to the Regions for the financing of anti-violence services. The offices of the Department for Equal Opportunities are working to reach the allocation of resources between the Regions in a very short time. Technical contacts are already under way concerning the finalisation of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on which the understanding of the State-Regions Conference is to be acquired by the end of November. It is our firm intention to carry out a timely monitoring of the use of funds by the Regions. We have also said that it is necessary to verify that delivery arrangements are consistent with the political design underlying the National Strategic Plan. Also in the direction booth we intend to address also some criticalities found in the Operating Plan, on which is under way a rapid deepening in order to identify the eventual correctives to be made in the immediate. In that forum we will continue the discussion to define strategies for economic violence and occupational empowerment. At the last meeting, the need for action to enable women's economic autonomy was identified as a priority and we are working on the establishment of a specific working table. The subject is closely linked to that of training, on which we intend to implement specific guidelines. I have also asked the political authorities involved to indicate their representatives in order to proceed quickly with the re-establishment of the technical committee and its convocation. Finally, I would like to point out that on 5 November I signed, together with the Minister of Education, University and Research, the Minister of Justice, the National Prosecutor of anti-Mafia and counter-terrorism, the Secretary of the CEI and the President of Libera, together with the heads of the judicial offices of Reggio Calabria, a protocol of understanding to ensure a concrete alternative of life for minors from families included in organised crime, or who are victims of mafia violence, and family members who disassociate themselves from criminal logic. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u151	I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u152	Minister, thank you for your reply, for which we are satisfied, also because we have seen from the outset a great deal of attention from the Government and, in particular, from your Ministry, on a subject which, as you and Mr Conzatti rightly pointed out, is absolutely a priority. We need a comprehensive strategic plan that can really affect all the stakeholders, so certainly a directing booth among the Ministries, the Regions, the local authorities, the anti-violence centers and all those who work with professionalism every day on our territories and who need to have those resources of which you have confirmed the appropriation. Above all, we need what you rightly indicated from the beginning of your journey, that is to say a great educational and cultural plan for our children and our children to accompany them in the path of growth within families and in schools. We really need a plan of equal opportunities and respect between men and women, otherwise it will certainly not be enough to tighten the penalties, which are necessary and must be absolutely confirmed. Above all, however, we need a huge cultural change, because domestic violence in a particular way - and we have seen it first of all in our homes, within our families - is unfortunately on the increase and we see more and more women who with their children have to leave their families and their homes, which should instead be the safest place to live. Finally, we need a great economic and working emancipation, therefore a path of help, support and support for women, before, during and after. Minister, we will therefore be with you in order to carry out these policies of support together with the Government and with all the operators and operators who work every day on our territories and whom I would also like to thank here. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u153	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.58 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u154	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Economic Development on the situation of the Ilva company. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I felt it necessary to accept immediately the invitation from both branches of this House for this information to report to the House on the situation of the former Ilva plant in Taranto. As you know, on 4 November 2019 the company ArcelorMittal officially notified the extraordinary commissioners of the desire to withdraw from the contract entered into on 28 June 2017, which subsequently became effective on 1 November 2018, or just over a year ago. ArcelorMittal's withdrawal from his contractual commitments is only the last piece of a series of events that date back over time and have seen the involvement of many governments and all the political forces present in Parliament in various ways. Before arriving today and informing this House about the recent events of these long, intense and objectively worrying days, I cannot help but make an objective historical chronology, to frame exactly the reasons why we are coming to this situation today. I will leave, for example, on 26 November 2012, when the Taranto judiciary seized the steel mill for serious environmental violations, resulting in the seizure of the finished and semi-finished products of the plant. Following the seizure, the then Monti Government intervened with decree-law 3 December 2012, n. 207, declaring the Ilva plant of strategic national interest and dictating specific measures to ensure the continuity of production and marketing of the products, even those made before the date of entry into force of the same decree-law. Following a series of subsequent measures and the authorisation to carry out the programme for the disposal of Ilva's business complexes, prepared by the commissioner, on 5 January 2016, the invitation to show interest in a public procedure tender was published. A few months later, with Decree-Law No 98 of 9 June 2016, the tendering procedure was amended, introducing a sub-process of evaluation of the proposed amendments to the 2014 environmental plan - in the meantime approved - contained in the offers. In this way, we wanted to give the utmost importance to the environmental issue, which was included in the sales procedure, thus becoming a prerequisite for the competition itself. I think it is necessary to inform everyone of a fact, but I imagine it is well known, namely that two newly formed companies intervened at that stage: Am InvestCo Italy Srl, cordata formed by ArcelorMittal Italy holding (at 51 per cent), ArcelorMittal SA, the parent company (at 34 per cent) and Marcegaglia carbon steel SpA (at 15 per cent); a second cordata, AcciaItalia SpA, formed by Acciaieria Arvedi (at 10 per cent), Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (at 27,5), Delfin (at 27,5) and group Jindal (at 35 per cent). During the tendering procedure and the evaluation of tenders, by letter dated 10 April 2017, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition informed the Italian authorities that for one of the two tenders submitted, ArcelorMittal's, it would be necessary to carry out the merger control procedure by the Commission itself and that this would lead to the possible extension of the sales procedure even beyond 2017. The letter therefore suggested that the possible regulatory risk should be taken into account in the evaluation of the tender. In order to overcome the Commission's observations, the Special Commissioners of Ilva, supported by an opinion of the Vetting, forwarded to the two competitors a communication to acquire from them the willingness to extend the validity and effectiveness of the tenders submitted, not to modify in any case the proposed industrial plan, if the authorization to the concentration of Community dimension had required the successful tenderer to dispose - as then happened - of assets relating to the markets concerned and the negotiation - downstream of the possible award - of the duration of the guarantees provided, of course until the completion of the investments provided for in the industrial plan with the related employment levels, if they were to be temporarily placed in a period following the duration of the guarantees provided for in the contract placed on the basis of tender. Only ArcelorMittal provided a positive response to all requests for availability made by extraordinary Commissioners. The procedure ended with the attribution of the relative scores, which I am going to summarize: on the industrial level, the Cordata ArcelorMittal obtained 25.5 points and AcciaItalia 30; on the environmental level, ArcelorMittal 12 points and AcciaItalia 15; on the lower financial resources to be recovered through financing with state intervention, for the benefit of the Ilva in extraordinary administration, the two cordate achieved both five points; on the canon of purchase ArcelorMittal obtained 50 points and AcciaItalia 30,8, for a total total of 92,5 points out of 100 for ArcelorMittal and 80,8 points out of 100 for the Cordata AcciaItalia. Therefore, although AcciaItalia had achieved a better assessment of both the industrial plan and the environmental plan, ArcelorMittal was actually winner only because of the economic parameter related to the rent and, more generally, to the purchase price (1.8 billion euros versus 1.2 billion offered by AcciaItalia), the assessment of which evidently exceeded on its own the sum of the other parameters of competition. Therefore, on 29 May 2017, the extraordinary commissioners formalized to the Ministry of Economic Development the proposal to award the contest to the first classified ArcelorMittal. Downstream of the award request, the AcciaItalia cordata - it may be useful to remember that the CEO of the AcciaItalia cordata was the current CEO of ArcelorMittal Italy - presented an express request to the Ministry to reopen the tender procedure, indicating a second phase aimed at obtaining improvement offers through the experiment of a re-launching procedure. I am not here to enunciate the series of acts that followed this request with the opinion of the General Vetting of the State, which expressed the evidence of the possibility for the Commissioners to reopen the deadlines for the submission of tenders downwards, considering however that the overall interest of award was pre-eminent and therefore not to allow this second phase and instead to allow extraordinary commissioners the definitive custody of the ArcelorMittal group. On 28 June 2017, the extraordinary commissioners of the Ilva ArcelorMittal group signed the lease with the obligation to purchase branches of the company. ArcelorMittal then presented, on July 5, 2017, a special application for the authorisation of new interventions and for the modification of the environmental plan (which we will recover even later when we talk about the question of legal protection or immunity), which were authorised on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Development, after a resolution of the Council of Ministers, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on September 29, 2017. On 7 May 2018, the above-mentioned antitrust procedure was also concluded by the European Commission decision approving, under the EU Merger Regulation, the acquisition of Ilva by ArcelorMittal. However, this decision was conditional on the implementation of some so-called remedies in order to maintain effective competition on the European steel markets, for the benefit of consumers and businesses, including in the specific case the removal of the Marcegaglia group from the acquiring consortium and numerous deliveries to the ArcelorMittal group, including the Piombino plants in Italy, but other plants in Belgium, Luxembourg, Macedonia, the Czech Republic and Romania. On 10 July 2018, the Ministry of Economic Development received a letter signed by the President of the Region of Puglia, addressed to the newly appointed Minister Di Maio, appointed Minister eight days earlier, in which, in relation to the procedure for the transfer of the Ilva group to the cordata led by ArcelorMittal, shadow areas were reported which should be clarified, I quote, in order to ascertain whether this award actually took place in favour of the best offer. In this case, too, I summarize in points a matter known because it is more recent. Compared to the issue of the assignment of the final award and the need to ascertain if such award has actually occurred in favor of the better offer, an appeal was made to the National Authority anti-corruption, where some elements of criticality were highlighted, then making a request to the General Court of the State. In particular, the Notice ruled out that a possible derogation from the procedural letter could constitute a breach of the pardicio of the participants and considered that the possible decision to open a re-launch - the subject was that - could have been right in clause 9.2 of the procedural letter, which gave the Commissioner a very wide discretion also aimed at the publicistic objectives of the procedure. The Court therefore held that, in the present case, the possibility of obtaining a legitimate exercise of the power of annulment must be anchored in a concrete and current public interest which is particularly corroborated. He then expressed an opinion on the actual, concrete and current public interest, highlighting some elements, including: the dissolution of the second classed cordata; the agreements with the social partners; the assumption by ArcelorMittal of 10,700 workers (so the improvement compared to the tender procedure); the guarantee that at the end of the extraordinary administration all those who are still dependent on it will receive from ArcelorMittal a proposal for permanent recruitment and therefore the absence of redundancies; the commitment to the granting of productivity premiums to employees; the signing of an advocacy through which ArcelorMittal assumed strengthening, complementary and widening commitments of the already contracted obligations, mainly aimed at integrating and improving the profiles of environmental protection of the health of citizens. As I said, in the more AcciaItalia SpA had been placed in liquidation and subsequently removed from the register of enterprises and consequently a possible annulment of the acts with retrocession of the procedure to the recovery phase had not had any useful effect at that point. For all these reasons, the decision not to proceed with the annulment of the acts was a compulsory act because of the lack of those assumptions which I mentioned earlier: the public interest. We therefore arrived together with the trade union agreement, to the contract that became effective between the parties with effect from 1 November 2018. The second point that I wanted to make in some way chronologize to get to the point of today is the question of so-called criminal immunity. I shall perhaps dwell on this with a few more elements. With regard to the question of criminal immunity and its impact on Ilva, it is necessary first of all to retrace the follow-up of the various rules. Decree-Law No. 1 of 2015 provided, in article 2, paragraph 6, that compliance with the environmental plan could not first give rise to the administrative responsibility of the institution - former legislative decree n. 231 of 2001 - and secondly did not integrate criminal or administrative responsibility of extraordinary commissioners or of the subjects functionally delegated by them, as it complies with the best environmental rules of protection of health and public safety and safety at work. Subsequently, Decree-Law No 98 of 9 June 2016 extended the aforementioned discipline also to the tenant or buyer until 30 June 2017, term then extended in the 2017 thousandprorogues up to eighteen months, starting from the date of adoption of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers amending the environmental plan mentioned before. The provision literally provided for the protection regime to apply with regard to the conduct implemented until the expiry of 30 June, i.e. for a further period not exceeding 18 months from the date of entry into force of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 29 September 2017. In that second case, therefore, we would have arrived at 29 March 2019. Focusing attention only on the first of the two possible terms, that of 30 June 2017, it must be remembered, however, that Decree 244 of 2016 had anchored at the expiry of the environmental integrated authorisation (IAA) valid, i.e. 23 August 2023, the deadline for the execution of the works foreseen by the environmental plan. Therefore, in essence, the deadline for the completion of the environmental plan had been postponed to 23 August 2023 and thus also the time frame for the operation of the rule on so-called criminal immunity. The same notice was also issued on 14 September 2017 by the General Commission of the State. Also on the basis of some events of the first two months of 2019 - the reference is, in the first place, to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 24 January 2019 and, second, to the decision of the judge for preliminary investigations at the ordinary court of Taranto to raise, on 8 February 2019, question of constitutional legitimacy in an incidental way with reference inter alia to Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 - the Government has decided to intervene, once again, at the regulatory level on the installation of Article 2, paragraph 6. In fact, with Decree-Law No. 34 of 2019, so-called growth decree, the exemption from administrative responsibility of the institution deriving from crime to the conducts connected to the implementation of the AIA has been limited, in compliance with the environmental plan. Above all, it has been established that the exemption from criminal and administrative liability of the extraordinary commissioner, the tenant and the buyer of Ilva or their delegates operated exclusively for the conduct carried out in implementation of the environmental plan and only until 6 September 2019, no later. ArcelorMittal pointed out that such regulatory changes could have a disruptive effect on the transaction and on the contract, not failing to represent, moreover, that the aforementioned criminality had been a fundamental element in the determination to contract, condition sine qua non in the absence of which there would have been no legally binding agreement. I think it is good to make further clarity on this point. At the time of the submission of its binding, irrevocable and unconditional offer (on 6 March 2017), ArcelorMittal had attached to the material presented to the attention of extraordinary commissioners with Annex No 15 (a note on a regulatory issue that we intend to bring to your attention). I quoted ArcelorMittal's textual words. With this document ArcelorMittal focused on the legislative amendment that at that time had concerned Article 2 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015. In this regard - we are at 6 March 2017 - it noted that the milleproroghe should also have foreseen that the period of non-penalty should be extended to this new deadline (on 23 August 2023). The amendment introduced provides, instead, that the duration of the project is no longer aligned with the deadline for implementing the environmental plan and that it can end by 31 March 2019 at the latest, i.e. well before that deadline. This appears to be contrary to the ratio of the standard and its full extension, previously envisaged, to buyers and tenants. In conclusion, the failure to extend the period of non-perpetuality to 23 August 2023 is a critical issue for buyers and tenants, it is hoped that it will be resolved as soon as possible through further legislative intervention. Therefore, ArcelorMittal wanted a regulatory intervention to prolong beyond 31 March 2019 the so-called immunity, keeping fixed and firm, however, its irrevocable offer. At the time of the presentation of its binding offer, irrevocable and - more importantly - unconditional, ArcelorMittal showed to adhere to a so-called restrictive interpretation of the new legislation just introduced to the norm in question by the thousandprorogations and complaining, that, that is, that the criminal law had not been extended to 23 August 2023, analogous to what was done with the deadline for the execution of the works of the environmental plan. While criticizing the legislator's attitude, he made it clear that he did not want to influence his offer to this desired regulatory intervention. The best proof of this is found first of all in the qualification of the offer itself as unconditional and, secondly, a few months later, with the signing of a contract that did not regulate the issue at all. The subscription was, therefore, well before, on the profile of the duration of the same penalty, the general bill of the State provided an interpretation of different notices. The opinion - as said - would have arrived at the Ministry of Economic Development in September 2017, just a few days before the launch of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to modify the environmental plan. From the foregoing considerations, it appeared that ArcelorMittal was not in a position to legitimately invoke the termination of the contract and with it the dissolution of the legal bond. Without prejudice to the foregoing, it was necessary in any case to consider the possibility that ArcelorMittal, in the face of such regulatory intervention, could ipso facto prefer to dissolve unilaterally and arbitrarily from the contractual shop. Therefore, with Decree-Law No 101 of 3 September 2019, it has been foreseen that the conduct carried out in implementation of the aforementioned environmental plan, in compliance with the terms and modalities set out therein, cannot give rise to criminal and administrative liability, since they constitute fulfilment of the duties imposed by the aforementioned environmental plan, thus making a clear reference to the so-called principle of non-contradiction, provided for by Article 51 of the Criminal Code. In Decree-Law No 101 of 2019, in the wording issued by the Council of Ministers and published in the Official Journal, it is expected that, for the renter or buyer only, the discipline of the claims applies with reference to the conducts put in place in execution of the environmental plan, until the expiry of the implementation deadlines laid down by the plan itself, for each requirement provided for therein, that it is in relief with regard to the conducts carried out by those subjects, maintaining in any case the liability in criminal, civil, administrative event resulting from the violation of rules placed in order to protect the health and safety of workers. As you know, the decree in question was converted into law on 2 November, by Parliament, without Article 14, with which the regulatory mechanism has returned to being the one resulting from the growth decree and, consequently, from the moment of conversion into law, i.e. from last 2 November, the criminal law is no longer applicable. I therefore recall the evolution that led to the custody and signing of the contract and the part that concerns legal protection, I believe it is necessary to report the Shareholders' Meeting of the letter received on November 4 and the subsequent act of citation at the Milan court. By letter dated 4 November 2019, addressed to extraordinary commissioners, ArcelorMittal communicated the exercise of the right of withdrawal from the lease, with obligation to purchase branches of the company, signed on 28 June 2017. In the letter it is evidenced that the law n. 128 of 2 November 2019, of conversion of the crisis decree, has eliminated the legal protection previewed to article 2, paragraph 6 of the decree n.1 of 2015, that it constituted - according to, I would say exclusively, of the society - an essential presupposition on which the tenant had made explicit confidence and in absence of which he would not have accepted to participate in the operation, let alone to establish the relationship disciplined from the contract. According to ArcelorMittal, therefore Article 27.5 of the contract, relating to the withdrawal, would apply. Following that letter, at 4 a.m. on Monday 5 November, the Ilva commissioner was notified of an act of citation at the Milan court, with which ArcelorMittal asked, in the main, to ascertain and declare the effectiveness of the right of withdrawal exercised under Article 27.5 of the contract and, in the course of Gradate Suborder, to pronounce the termination of the contract for the impossibility that occurred, or, on the basis of the principles in the matter of presumption, or, in the course of further suborder, to cancel the contract for failure to comply with Ilva in extraordinary administration; that is, due to excessive onerosity that occurred; that is, still in accordance with the resolving clauses contained in the individual implementing leases. This is certainly not a courtroom. However, I would like to represent you, with regard to the main thesis advanced by ArcelorMittal, that of the withdrawal, some very brief notations concerning Article 27.5 of the lease. The contract was modified by specifically including paragraph 27.5, as a direct consequence of the appeal made before the TAR of Lecce, then transferred to the TAR of Lazio, by the Puglia Region and the Municipality of Taranto, which concerns the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 29 September 2017, which approved, pursuant to Article 1 of Decree No 191 of 2015, the amendments to the environmental plan approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2014. Therefore in 2014 the first environmental plan is approved by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and in 2017 it is modified. The request for annulment by the TAR was made on these amendments, of course agreed. Given that compliance with the environmental plan constituted and constitutes a condition for the continuation of the productive activities and that the modifications required by ArcelorMittal and permitted by the current legislation were linked to the implementation of the industrial plan subject to the offer, ArcelorMittal wanted to regulate the contractual effects deriving from the eventual acceptance, in whole or in part, of such appeals. At the date of signature of the contract, the time limits for the submission of other actions had expired. In essence, ArcelorMittal, rightly, wanted to protect himself from any subsequent changes to the environmental plan due to a decision of the TAR or for other consequences or due to regulatory changes, saying that in that case he would exercise the right of withdrawal governed by the article that we are analyzing. The contract rules, therefore, the case in which, by the date of operation - that is, by the date on which ArcelorMittal should have exercised the obligation to purchase - either a final judgment, or an executive judgment of first instance not suspended, or a decree of the President of the Republic, or the acceptance of an extraordinary appeal not suspended, or a legislative administrative measure not resulting from a Community obligation. In such cases - and only for these cases - ArcelorMittal may invoke the right of withdrawal provided for in Article 27.5 and may do so within fifteen days of the occurrence of any such occurrence. Further provision in Article 27.5 relates to the existence of an administrative legislative measure - as I said before - which does not derive from Community obligations, which involves changes to the environmental plan and which makes the industrial plan no longer feasible from a technical and economic point of view. Therefore, the exercise of the right of withdrawal that ArcelorMittal can invoke pursuant to Article 27.5 of the contract is limited to changes to the environmental plan and not only to them, in the sense that they must be such that they no longer make the industrial plan technically and/or economically feasible. Upon the occurrence of these conditions, ArcelorMittal's right of withdrawal takes place. From the contractual forecasts mentioned above, it follows therefore that the right of withdrawal governed in contract derives exclusively from judicial or administrative or legislative measures that involve the total or partial annulment of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 29 September 2017 containing the environmental plan, such as to make impossible the exercise for the establishment of Taranto; or the modification of the same decree such as to render no longer feasible - as I said before - from the technical and/or economic point of view, the industrial plan. The requirement for the application of Article 27.5 of the contract is therefore an intervention on the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 29 September 2017 and not any other intervention, including regulatory, that does not impact on this device. Therefore, it would seem out of focus ArcelorMittal Italia's assertion that the law of conversion of the so-called crisis decree, eliminating legal protection, has an irremediably disruptive impact on the contract because, among other things, I quote ArcelorMittal's words: "it involves an amendment of the Environmental Plan that makes the industrial plan no longer usable and therefore Article 27.5 should apply, because such legislative provision has not occurred. For the above schematically reported, even in a systematic interpretation and not only literal, the changes of the decree of 2017 are a necessary element to the case of determining the emergence of the right of withdrawal, but - as said - the decree has not been even minimally affected. Of course, I repeat that this is not a courtroom, but I believe it is right, in relation to this House, as I have done to the House and also to the public, to give objective elements of assessment regardless of the political positions that can then be expressed. Another theme recurs frequently, often mentioned by ArcelorMittal in all the meetings we have made. I met the company for the first time on September 12, a week after the government's inauguration, to talk about blast furnace two. Also on this you have to allow me five minutes of reading a series of events that have led to today's situation. To understand today's situation and what ArcelorMittal says in his request for withdrawal and in all its subordinates in the act of citation, it is in fact necessary to have full confidence in what happened to that part of the production plant, to that part of the hot area. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Minister, allow me to interrupt you for a minute. You would have exceeded the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. In agreement with the House, I allow you to continue with a comprehensive representation of this issue. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] , Minister for Economic Development. Mr President, I would like to thank you and your colleagues for their understanding. Last September 17, the first criminal section of the court of Taranto ruled on the appeal lodged by Ilva SpA in extraordinary administration against the order of July 31, 2019 of the monocratic judge of the same court, with which it was rejected the concession of the faculty of use of Afo2 conditionally to the fulfillment of the prescriptions already issued by the attorney of Taranto for the safety of the same plant under the decree of preventive seizure issued on June 29, 2015 for events that had unfortunately led to the disappearance of Alessandro Morricella, worker Ilva, occurred on June 12, 2015. I recall that the conditional return of blast furnace 2 had been ordered by the Taranto Public Prosecutor following the adoption of Decree-Law No 92 of 2015, which had regulated the right of use of the plant under seizure, despite the seizure. It should be noted that, following the seizure order of June 2015, the proxy issued in September of the same year the refund order conditional on the fulfilment of specific requirements for the safety of the blast furnace within a certain period, as specified in the annex to the measure. Subsequently, by letter dated 27 June 2017 and technical advice dated 1 January 2019, Ilva explained the technical reasons for which certain requirements had been deemed not to be feasible, while others had been carried out as requested. By order lodged on 31 July 2019, the monocratic judge with whom the judgment of cognition for the manslaughter of Alexander Morricella was incardinated had rejected the application for a concession in use referred to in Article 2 for the following reasons: the return could not be said to have been perfected because not all the prescriptions had been fulfilled, largely continuing the original danger of the blast furnace. The Constitutional Court, by judgment of 7 February 2018, had declared the unconstitutionality of Article 3 of Decree-Law No 92 of 2015 and Articles 1, paragraph 2, and 21-Gg of Law No 123 of 2015, on the basis of which the activity of the establishments of strategic interest such as Ilva could continue, despite the preventive seizure measures relating to the cases of crime inherent in the safety of workers, even if the company had prepared, within thirty days of the adoption of the seizure order, a plan containing additional measures also temporary for the protection of the safety of the workplace. The judge for the preliminary hearing had rejected, on June 27, 2019, the application for a seizure; therefore, for all these reasons, the preventive seizure of June 29, 2015 (i.e. four years earlier) still in force had to be carried out, hence also the need to start the procedure of Afo2 shutdown, which was to begin from the first days of October of this year. The judgment of the judicial guardian, according to which the overall picture - by virtue of the only partial fulfillment of the requirements of the non-esteem in relation to the overcoming or not of the threshold of acceptability of the risk (therefore there was no risk analysis) - would be characterized by an improvement of the conditions of fact of the installation, but not so much to prevent possible uncontrolled events and irreversible damage to the staff of establishment and the population. The monocratic court also held that the principle of proportionality could not be applied either between the prejudice of the reasons for Ilva resulting from the shutdown of the blast furnace and the requirements to be protected, since this principle could not in any case lead to a substantial nullification of the aims and effects of the measure applied. Therefore - the monocratic judge concluded - the eventual granting of a further right of use would have resulted in an inadmissible surrogate of the decree-law which had recently been dismissed by the Constitutional Court. By the proposed act of appeal, Ilva's defence challenged certain profiles of the contested order to the monocratic judge. The court, when deciding on the appeal, charges Ilva with a guilty conduct and a guilty delay. But, having never challenged the provision of the proxy of 7 September 2015 (the conditional restitution decree) and never fully implemented the prescriptions contained in it, the court recognizes that at present there is the concrete will on the part of Ilva to adapt to the prescriptions of the proxy without any delaying application. The court is responsible for identifying the balance between the protection of workers' safety and the continuity of industrial production. It therefore considers in this regard that the risk to the safety of workers, as deduced by the seizure decree of 29 June 2015, is not extinguished but significantly mitigated. For the reasons set out above, on 17 September, with the reasons filed on 21 October - therefore a few days ago - partially accepting the appeal proposed on 2 September 2019 in the interest of Ilva in extraordinary administration against the order of the monocratic judge, granted the applicant the right of use of Afo2, conditional and subject to the fulfilment of the requirements in whole or in part not implemented, referred to in the 2015 measure, within a time limit not exceeding that originally granted with the aforementioned measure. Therefore, the requirements must be completed by 13 December 2019. It is at this moment in the preparation, by the Commissioners, the necessary risk analysis and obviously the chronological forecast (chronoprogram), with a draft detail, of all the operations necessary to respond punctually to all the prescriptions made by the court. This is the history of events and the state of the art. As you can see, the matter is currently pending with the competent judicial bodies. The theme of Afo2, as well as the theme of the seizure of the dock, is present in the documents delivered by ArcelorMittal in the interlocations had. I would point out, however, that on the elements linked to the provisions of a court - since it does not appear to me that the principle of separation of the powers of the State has failed during this period, and therefore the executive and legislative powers take only, with respect, all the determinations of the judicial authority - the Government obviously cannot intervene to ensure that the measures of the judicial authority have a different fate than that which the tribunal itself has established. Before arriving at the report of what happened yesterday in the meeting with ArcelorMittal, I would like to dedicate a passage to the city of Taranto. I believe that this House must do so, out of respect for a territory which has suffered so much and which must be restored, by those who govern and by the institutions, a little of the economic and social dignity that has been taken away from it in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups]] It is obvious that it is not easy to deal with a complex situation such as today, which is composed of particular problems and competences and, at the same time, very articulated. We have an opportunity, however, because there are structures, skills and resources available for the pursuit of great objectives, to rehabilitate that territory and the dignity of those citizens. I am referring, for example, to the permanent institutional table for Taranto, whose presidency was entrusted to me by President Conte by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 19 September last, and to the underlying institutional development contract, which has already been allocated resources of approximately 1.1 billion euros. It is up to us - and I say this without reading the text of the speech - to ensure that more than tables are created roofs for those citizens, in order to make the resources allocated fall back on those territories. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The political action aims to give continuity to the objectives identified in the last six months, with the work of monitoring, updating of the contents and unlocking of the resources already available, drawing up a new framework of development, to make Taranto a Mediterranean hub of cleantech, renewable energies, new materials, promoting structured initiatives of research and development in these sectors and triggering the technologies within the productive activities with the greatest environmental impact, thanks also to the start of the works of the Tecnopolo, flanking a strategic action of valorization of the traditional economy. I can confirm that the renewed effort on Taranto has already generated some tangible results: after four years, the acts granted to the start of numerous activities of urban regeneration and valorization on the Isola madre, the city center and Drums, also thanks to 90 million euros additional allocated by the Mibac; the reclamation of the so-called ecological hills has been carried out within times compatible with the start of the new school year; the activity of reclamation of the so-called excluded areas by the commissioners, with interventions programmed for more than 280 million euros; a first plan for the internationalization dedicated to a territory has been made. We want to work so Taranto can get to know a better season. There's still so much to do, but we owe it to that territory. I now come to the report and information on the current state, the meeting with the summits of ArcelorMittal. First, however, I would like to reiterate once again in this House that the possible reduction or cessation of steel production in our country raises a fundamental issue on any industrial level that we want to propose for Italy. The production of domestic direct steel is not only in support of employment, or only a way of allowing the continuation of the environmental plan and the restoration of that territory from an environmental point of view, or only the guarantee for a product. Steel production has an impact on all the components of the Italian production system: shipbuilding, construction, automotive, sectors already deeply in crisis. That's why we called back and will call back ArcelorMittal to the commitments made when he signed and started the contract of employment and rent on November 1, 2018. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Senator Bressa groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I thank President Conte for having immediately taken the time and presented himself with the majority of the Ministers of the Government. At yesterday's meeting with ArcelorMittal the Government presented itself in fact compact and with a single request, saying that it was willing, at that time, to take all the necessary initiatives to respect and maintain the commitments entered into regarding the industrial plan, the environmental plan, the trade union agreement and the contract signed. This is what the Government has proposed and asked ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal replied that, regardless of any element related to legal protection, the Afo2 and the dock, as well as to their resolution, a structural and productive problem obliges the company to produce 4 million tons per year, no more. Therefore, 5,000 fewer jobs are expected. In this country when an entrepreneur has an industrial problem, on the market - as they say, it is in red - he finds himself with the bills to pay. We do not agree that there is an entrepreneur with a structural problem who has failed to fulfil the commitments made at the industrial level and who leaves the bills to this country. It is a matter of national sovereignty and those dealing with sovereignism and national sovereignty must know that protecting and helping the Government to find solutions is of national interest. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] I appeal, first of all to myself. I put my face on it, as I said in the Chamber of Deputies. I take all the insults you want to dedicate to me and take responsibility for what's going on. However, I call for a gesture of responsibility to the parliamentary assemblies, to politics and to all political forces. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] Let's stop arguing about contour elements, let's not get caught by a company. Politics is not done with tweets, but with serious proposals. We want to propose that society to keep its commitments. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, I said that I speak primarily for myself and my political strength. At this stage we need unity. The political and social forces and the institutions must be united and united in believing that it is unacceptable that, after less than a year, a society decides not to keep its commitments, because it is the result of the seriousness of our country and our industry, as well as the possibility of intervening with environmental reclamations and restorations, giving prospects of development to the citizens of that territory. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] I will continue to put my face on it, always trying to inform, when I am asked, the parliamentary assemblies and also the individual parliamentarians. I ask you, however, to keep your commitment to responsibility strongly because it really is true of the seriousness of our country as a whole. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV), whose senators stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u156	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Economic Development. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u157	Minister, Article 51 of the Penal Code reads: The exercise of a right or the fulfilment of a duty imposed by a legal rule or by a legitimate order of the public authority shall exclude punishableness. For Ilva we are talking about the implementation of the environmental plan, referred to in the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2014 and 2017. Let's therefore clear the field from the idea that it was the exclusion of the criminal shield that scared ArcelorMittal: moreover, it is the same society that confirms it, in some way implicitly confessing it on newspaper articles. I wonder at this point how the President-in-Office of the Council can first offer - as he himself said at the press conference last night - what he does not have, namely immunity from Parliament. Let's rewind the tape. When the administrative impunity was introduced with Alitalia, he shouted at the scandal. In the first Commission, lawyers who were dismayed hoped that this logic would never extend to criminal matters. Renzi thought about it with Ilva in 2015 and the Movimento 5 Stars rightly ripped his clothes, because never a constitutional right can be unbalanced with respect to other constitutional rights: the horizontal effectiveness of the norm would be diminished. Ilva has dangerous and out-of-standard facilities that would require investments that would never be made and that, given the huge losses, will never be realized. The plants are in operation at the risk and danger of those who manage them, because they are under functional seizure of the judiciary since 2012 and only legislative artifacts have kept them in operation for over seven years and with more than 13 decrees, to get to where we knew we would arrive, that is to say to nothing de facto. The truth is that ArcelorMittal is not in a position to respect the ultimatum of the judiciary about the commissioning of blast furnace 2 - as you said, Minister - the one in which the worker Alessandro Morricella died. Nor is it in a position to comply with the timetable of the environmental plan for implementing the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation, which are insufficient. The state has failed to defend the citizens of Taranto and the alternative plans for conversion and environmentalization, planned in recent years, has made it a waste of paper. In these twenty months we had to work on a viable alternative of conversion, looking for an active and not the passive way out of a scallop contract: an alternative structured and arranged over time. The truth is that we have not been able to predict events and design solutions, since - as today - we are surprised by the decision of ArcelorMittal, only apparently sudden, but instead expected and predictable, considering the conditions and forecasts of the international market. Perhaps ArcelorMittal's programmatic intentions were precisely to attack the Ilva competitor. Meanwhile the first integrated evaluation of the impact of air pollution on the environment and health (Vias) on the population of Taranto, has confirmed the increase of mortality already with the production of 4 million tons, very far from the 9 million tons with which the companies think they can maintain the current structure of the workers. I therefore wonder - and we all ask ourselves this - how to maintain these requirements together because, at the moment, no one has brought to the table a solution that holds together health, environment and work. I want to see if this table will be able to do that. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u158	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u159	Mr President, in these days on the issue of the former Ilva we have listened to everything and the opposite of everything; we have seen, among other things, in this House, a series of disproportionate words, dipped in the ink of resentment, anger, rhetoric and above all demagogy, by a former minister here yesterday, evidently for some time too much under pressure, which has offered nothing concrete to the debate, except a sterile controversy. The acrimony with which he launched strali against Matteo Salvini and the League and the contextual wands addressed to the PD, to that party with which today his party colleagues govern, remember a modus operandi of who, as in the fairy tale the Sleeping Beauty in the woods, not having been invited to the party, sends so curses; we all know how then ends this story. The protection of health, the lives of workers and citizens are not an exclusive of someone. Mrs Lezzi proclaims herself the only defender of human life, legality and justice, as if we did not defend the death of the children and workers of Taranto, as if we did not live in that Province and in that Salento, as if our children did not live there and would not risk it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of course, for those who have conducted an electoral campaign promising the closure of all the polluting sources or the closure of the steel mill, such as the closure of the yards of the TAV and the TAP, today, after a period of long hibernation and no longer directly to the Government, it becomes almost an obligation to put back the role of the environmentalist and speak freely with a worn repertoire of rhetoric and demagogy, thus exploiting the pain. But we will not fall into this trap, into the trap of those who, as his costume, love to throw everything in caciara, as he did yesterday. Those who have listened to his broken speech will then be able to judge. It is in this respect that we want to confront ourselves, Minister, if it is possible to do so. Let's get to the bottom of this. We have heard that you have other solutions, that you are looking for solutions and then we have heard the classic statement that it is necessary to combine work and health. But yesterday she indicated no hypothesis and no solution. Not even today, Minister, I think you have indicated solutions, in order to implement which we can help you and help Italy, Apulia, Salento, the workers and the induced. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us then try to bring this debate back to the level of a serious assessment of the facts. That the issue of the criminal shield was a fig leaf, we get there too. But, if so, why did you provide it? Why lay down the conditions of a divorce with an attribution of guilt? Will it not be that at the basis of ArcelorMittal's drastic decision to give up everything there are other reasons, which can be attributed to a general conduct of the industrial policy of this Government and perhaps to the lack of an industrial policy? There are 120-130 crisis tables that Minister Di Maio has left to you, Minister; an estimated number for approximation, because it is impossible to have official data, and surely it will also be a defect. A figure referring to the most significant productive realities, which add about 210,000 employees. For example, we are talking about Alitalia, Whirlpool, Piaggio Aerospace, Bombardier, Piombino steel works, Mercatone Uno (just to name a few). But there is a fundamental issue, which is a policy that discourages productive investment and creates obstacles to those who want to produce, increasing the tax burden and denying the necessary legal certainty. There is no escape from the progressive disappearance of national capital, which leaves the management of entire productive sectors to the large multinationals. It is a government divided over everything; more than anything, however, on the Ilva issue. What does PD do in all this? What does the Democratic Party say, which has produced dozens of decree-laws to save this industrial asset of the Taranto steel mills, the core of all that politics? What scenarios did the government assess? What alternatives (we have not yet heard them), what decisions do you intend to take? The only thing that has managed to say Zingaretti in the last few hours is that the responsibility is of the previous Government, forgetting that the Government the majority party, then as now, was the Movimento 5 Stars and that the whole affair of the former Ilva, from 2012 to today, has been entirely managed by left-wing governments led by its PD. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We express solidarity with you, Minister, because we listened to you first in the House and now here in the Senate: we can only go to you with our full solidarity for the very heavy legacy that your leader Di Maio has given you; he spoke to us about numbers of well-known events and in the end he gathered open-scene applause, both in the House and here, and it is clear that it should be so, stating that the Government will not accept that ArcelorMittal disregards the commitments made, knowing that in any case he will do what his entrepreneurial interests will bring her to do. The Minister asks all political forces of majority and opposition for an act of responsibility for finding solutions, but we have always demonstrated it amply: we will support any initiative that serves to protect employment while ensuring the safety and health of workers and citizens. The solutions, however, must find them first of all who governs: it is the dramatic truth, unfortunately, of those who are not actually presenting solutions at the moment, therefore of Conte, of the Minister and of the political leaders of the majority parties, who also appear clearly divided from an ideological point of view on this issue. It could not be otherwise, since they are found to govern together in an unnatural way industrialized forces and forces that have won the electoral campaign talking about the closure of the Ilva and the yards TAV and TAP and the blocking of any intervention for large infrastructures. Take note of these great limitations of one's incompetence and errors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Marti. MARTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is that sense of responsibility that the Italians are waiting for today, an act of responsibility that perhaps finally gives the electorate the floor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u160	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u161	Mr President, I am speaking today on the subject of Ilva, which I also mentioned on time when I voted on the decree-law on riders and corporate crises, a text in which, according to many thinkers, there would be the smoking gun of a fanciful crime or an unholy action that the government and the majority would have perpetrated. I thank Minister Patuanelli for the commitment he is putting every day to solve the many problems related to his Ministry and all the industrial crises that unfortunately we have in our country. Today I start my speech pedantically, but it is hoped that we have all found benefit from a wand at a young age. Our Constitution in Article 1 reads: "Italy is a democratic Republic based on labour." In Article 4 it continues: "The Republic grants all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions that make this right effective," and that is the point. For those of you who scream and scream at this situation, our Constitutional Charter ends after four articles and our citizens' rights end there. Certainly talking about ethics or morals for these people is absolutely out of place, but at least read all the articles of our Constitution. Article 32 states: "The Republic shall protect health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community." On this Thursday 7 November 2019, therefore, even a person like me, who has spent a lifetime in industry and has very much in mind the issues related to every management aspect and every problem that faces those who carry on very large industrial realities, you have to put on the school bench to reason on the constitutional text. Why did our constituent Fathers recognize that the Republic is founded on work and the right to work, but adding the adjective "fundamental" only when it comes to health? Not only that: they added that this fundamental right to health is the interest of the whole community. The work, it is true, ennobles man as a single person, but this affixes to his personal sphere. Do you know what happened to Taranto until today? A fundamental and incompressible constitutional right has been subordinated to every other, and it has not been done intermittently, remembering once in a while that the people of that city died, but exclusively. In the last few days there have been those who have spoken of irresponsibility or torn their clothes proposing to go to Canossa to ArcelorMittal to beg a second thought. At last we have been clear: the multinational has been meditating for a long time to get away from the agreement with the Italian Government and has done so at the first opportunity available. The criminal shield, which we have rightly removed, is not of interest to this company, which confirmed it immediately after the meeting at Palazzo Chigi. The intention is only to lay off, in the face of a drop in demand, without following up on the commitments made. I would like to ask my colleagues in the opposition who in these days include unacceptable amendments on Ilva, for a more mature and less propagandistic attitude. So let's all stop blaming this majority who for the first time decided to take heart the environmental emergency of Taranto. This emergency situation had already been sanctioned in January by the European Court of Human Rights ruling. This ruling, in reference to the Italian Government's thesis on the condition of victims of the inhabitants of Taranto, quotes the Government, at the same time, contests the quality of victims of the applicants and that the complaints of the applicants are general and do not refer to particular situations and that they do not provide any factual element in support of the claim that the persons concerned would have been harmed in practice. I do not know who developed this thesis in the last parliamentary term, but there is to put his hands in the hair from the bewilderment and wonder if the person who did it acted in science and conscience. What would those who struggle every day have to do to see their right to health respected? Should he have brought the sick here to Parliament or Strasbourg? Perhaps so, perhaps in the face of the evidence that it is already such in all medical studies that over the years have been perfected, even these lovers of industrialism at all costs would have been at least tacit. In all honesty, in the face of such a situation, Parliament could not remain unarmed and not intervene in defence of the inhabitants of Taranto. The government, called upon to take its responsibilities, is doing so with a very high sense of duty. With a sensitivity in the face of the weakest, in the face of those who lose their lives because their own home is in an polluted area, which evidently did not have the governments that ruled the country for decades. Ilva is a fundamental site for the entire Italian industrial fabric and for this reason it must be defended. But my idea of a country is not that of a state that begs help from the private and bends the laws to promote speculation and the splintering of our wealth. Today it seems anachronistic to talk about nationalization; a noun now old, outdated, but more suitable for the situation of Ilva: the largest steel mill in Europe is the fundamental pivot around which to structure our entire infrastructural plan of great works. We're not gonna let him die, but we're not gonna let anyone who's been forgotten for years die. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u162	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u163	Mr President, I should like to thank the Minister very sincerely and convincingly for his intervention. As far as I am concerned, I would like to assure you that your face is certainly also my face and should be the face of this Parliament, because you have taken responsibility for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] to place at the centre of national attention a problem that someone would like to defuse at a particular, productive and regional level. The issue of Italian steel production is a fact that has to do with the development of our country, which must grow by putting together production, work and the environment as if they were, because they are, one thing. His speech is extremely important and recalls our responsibility, which is the responsibility of this Parliament. Romano Prodi has made a speech in these days that I allow myself to resume and quote, saying that we have a responsibility so that this issue, so dramatic, can prepare a new industrial policy for our country. The Minister was not to present here today the industrial plan of the future, but to give meaning and perspective, the direction of a country; which he has done in a timely and precise manner and we must be proud of this. At such a dramatic time there is no discharge of responsibility, but we take full responsibility for it. You have done so, we must do so and we will do so today and from here on by supporting the government's action for the things you have just said. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and PD. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u164	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u165	Minister, you have rebuilt exactly, and for this I too join in thanking you, all the history that led to the assignment to ArcelorMittal. From the precise and exact reconstruction - to which I would also like to add something else - and from the discussions that have been made, which also cause so much fibrillation - I want to say it here very clearly - linked to the criminal shield, as if that were the fundamental question, it is clear that the issues come very far, that the shield is only an instrumental alibi and that it has nothing to do with the intentions of ArcelorMittal. Let's be clear, starting with what you, Minister, have also rebuilt on the assignment scores. Are we gonna tell each other what's going on at the industrial level? Today it is said to bring the industrial plan to 4 million, but it was already clear from that plan that perhaps it could not stand. Instead of making completely useless and instrumental polemics, if we are parliamentarians of this country and we care about its interest, perhaps we should ask ourselves why - and who is a little more experienced than I know what the reasons might be - ArcelorMittal came to make that offer. It is a multinational which clearly from the outset - we must be aware of this, it is not only a malignant reconstruction - had only a non-productive interest, but probably linked only to occupying and preventing some other competitors from arriving in this market and in Italy. That is obvious. If one goes to put together the industrial plan and also the scores that had been given on the industrial level (already from the technical point of view it was seen that it was certainly not the best plan), one understands many things. You, Minister, were right to explain in detail that, at the time when the unconditional offer was made, the question of a legislative measure for the criminal shield had been raised, but it was separate. Not to mention what Senator Nugnes mentioned earlier, namely that in our legislation anyone is obliged by a higher authority to implement a plan can certainly not be pursued. Evidently that was not the main reason. Maybe that's what happened to the Afo2 problem? But do we really think that this Parliament, or anyone in this country, can intervene in relation to a court order to prevent or to contradict or to delay the determinations? ArcelorMittal knows the answer perfectly well. It is clear that what has been prepared - and it has been understood why it was immediately questioned by communicating the withdrawal from the contract - is clearly a real blackmail. When it is said that you want to get to the half of the work units, putting 5,000 employees into the integration fund, going to look at what the industrial plan was you understood that the numbers were already these. I repeat something that the Minister knows perfectly well. When we began to examine the decree-law and the amendments, so when no decision had yet been taken either in the Commission or in this House, ArcelorMittal had already prepared his decisions through, for example, the appointment of the managing director: it is certainly a little strange that he was the managing director of the other competitor too. So there are a few things that don't add up. Therefore, all the more so, the concern of the Government and this majority had become apparent with respect to the intentions of ArcelorMittal precisely at the moment in which the decision is taken to indicate a CEO known to close the factories and not so much to open them or to cut heads. These were our concerns long before the absolutely legitimate and sovereign decision of this House was taken to intervene on Article 14 of the so-called business-saving decree. This means that the transaction that has been attempted is market, location and interest. Now, however, the problem before us is another. That is why we should avoid throwing ourselves at others or doing instrumental operations. We must reject the shameful blackmail of ArcelorMittal in a clear and precise way - not only the government must do so, but all and in some of the speeches I have not heard this concern. Certainly the future cannot help but be concerned because we should still make a decision. We are concerned about the issue of work, but we are extremely concerned about the fact that there is an environmental and health bomb that continues to kill and cause damage. We can't forget that every time we discuss the Taranto affair. If we say that steel is strategic for our country, you know perfectly well what the word "strategic" means. Therefore, it must be decided whether the State itself renationalises, intervenes and, therefore, takes charge of everything that this entails, or whether we must be able to seriously put in place, as other countries have done, a conversion project. These are the issues on which we should focus in a unified and serious way and not on exploitation. I repeat, our concern - it should be for everyone - is to intervene, save and dedicate our time to that city for work, health and the future. That should be our concern. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u166	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u167	Mr President, my speech has one premise: we are defending the workers and workers of the Ilva in Taranto. We're talking about real people. Many have also given the numbers in the newspapers: 8,200 direct workers and workers in Taranto; in the group 10,700, of which 1,273 in ArcelorMittal's Cassa Integrazione, in addition to the 1,700 who were already in Ilva's Cassa Integrazione and over 5000 units under contract. For us today we need words of truth and reassurance to create a climate of serenity and certainty for the workers and workers of Ilva, for their families and for the towns and citizens of Taranto. A whole community that since 2012, as the Minister rightly recalled, since the judge for preliminary investigations in Taranto arranged the seizure of Ilva plants for environmental pollution, is confronted with the maintenance of employment, the protection of health, the environment and people. Never should you find yourself in such a situation, between having to choose between the work that gives you life and the risk to your health that takes it away. The data of the report "Sentieri" of the Higher Institute of Health, together with those of the INAIL, provide alarming data on childhood diseases, increased by 9 percent in the territory of Taranto compared to the Region. This is a colossal dilemma on which no one can speculate and which applies to all of us in this House to the great issue of the balance between constitutionally guaranteed rights, the right to work, the right to health and the right to the environment, as the Constitutional Court has already reminded us. Colleagues and colleagues, we must strike a fair balance within us, in Parliament, in the dialectic between Parliament and the Government. So I particularly thank the Minister, when he made the excursus on the legislation containing the so-called shield. The theme of this rule was to give, to those who clean up difficult environments and together relaunch production, once closely linked to the environmental plan. We have probably all read the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the environment and the link between the rule and the environmental plan is very strong. There are some very precise objectives that companies that invest and need to clean up, as well as ArcelorMittal, must maintain. We therefore need a great national consensus. It would be easy to argue with Salvini, whose history of this legislation is clearly stated. With the previous Government, of which Salvini was Minister, the deadline for this period was set at 6 September 2019. So Salvini can't use hard words, words that only bring anxiety, like when he says someone else has decided to jail for others. Minister, I welcome your appeal to all of us to be together. It is up to us to start thinking again about the subject of the shield, to give legal certainty for a time. We then ask for a fair balance from the ArcelorMittal company, which cannot speak of 5,000 redundancies: no one in the world can hold, socially and economically, 5,000 redundancies. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] As you said, Minister, the company has a duty to respect the contract and agreements and if the company's global business strategy included steel production and investment in steel in our country, this cannot be changed overnight, not even with the excuse of the cancellation of the shield: for this reason we must not give alibi. I would say to the company that national data and global data refer to very important issues, they tell us that the steel crisis is cyclical, and that, at stages of depression, there are alternating stages of expansion, in which all companies in the world recover what they have lost. At the same time we understand the problems of the moment, the decrease in demand and the difficulties related to duties and precisely for this reason the company must feel the weight of the State and the Italian Government, because Ilva is a site of national interest and we are with the Government on this path. So it takes a time: a time for reclamation, in a complex situation, for European compatibility and a time for research in technology, for non-polluting productions, because this is possible, with the evolution of technology, which is increasingly accelerating. I don't want to seem irreverent, but I also want to make an appeal to Delegated Administrator Lucia Morselli, who is one of the very few women who plays a role of great responsibility, a recognized manager. Dr. Morselli, when she took up this position, said that: There is perhaps no greater and more complex industrial challenge in Italy today than that of Ilva. So the challenge is exactly this: production, work and environment. In conclusion, President Conte has appealed to all of us: "the country rotten compact." We are there, in order to safeguard jobs and develop the Italian industrial system and not to put humanity, which is in those Taranto lives, in the face of the choice between the risk of their children's health and the work place of their parents. We want to find concrete solutions: we probably also need to think concretely about the question of public aid, which we believe is aimed exclusively at the clean-up and health of the workplace, in order to safeguard the health of workers and workers, workers and workers, who work every day in that plant. In conclusion, I take the premise: we defend workers and workers in Ilva, their jobs and their health, first and foremost when they work. I think that, if we are all together, we can make a great contribution and solve this problem, which concerns Taranto, Italy, Europe and our world economy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u168	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u169	Mr President, for the first time we have heard an appeal from a 5 Star government representative to the patriotic sense, because Minister Patuanelli has concluded by appealing to all political forces to remain united at this dramatic and so difficult time. A short time ago, a colleague said that we had to march together. I say this with a sense of responsibility, speaking on behalf of the Brothers of Italy that by its nature is a patriotic party and therefore always listens to the appeals to patriotism, dignity, interest and national sovereignty, believing that they are at the first point not of our program but of our moral and political commitment. But it must be understood, Minister, in which direction we must march compactly because neither you, nor the representatives of the majority who have alternated here, nor the President of the Count Council at the press conference, have indicated a direction. You have explained the events, largely judicial and political, from 2012 to today that bind in an indissoluble way the Governments of the Left to those of the 5 Stars and I understand that in rebuilding these events, therefore the responsibility of the Governments of the Left from 2012 onwards, all the more with the race and the contract then won by the Indo-French or Franco-Indian cordata, I believe there is an assumption of responsibility from which you cannot escape. All the more so because of what has happened in this House because, Minister, we appreciate your common sense, your seriousness and we also value and respect you, but this House is not the international court that we thought you addressed 95% of your speech, reconstructing in detail what the lawyers of the Ministry have obviously rebuilt. We are not yet in an international courtroom where we are likely to be dragged by the French-Indian multinational. In that Chamber you will argue on behalf of the country about our right demands. But we are not even on a television stage where we can conclude a speech hoping to love each other together. If we do not know in which direction to move compactly, that is why we asked for it not to be an information but a communication, because the communication ends with some resolutions and a vote. You have escaped your responsibility: you have preferred the information, therefore the television stage, to the Parliamentary House and therefore to the commitments that we could all have and could take together. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] (17.26) (Follow Urso). Let me give you a significant example: when the country was derailing on the high-speed train, the national industry was derailing on the missed decisions on procurement and on the continuation of the high-speed project. In that case the government, perhaps because of the condition that the then Legist ally put in an attempt to stem the ideological madness of the Movimento 5 Stars, came to the Chamber and asked for a vote at the Assembly and that vote emargined the 5 Stars, allowing the country not to derail on the high-speed train. The same should have been done today and you could have done in the next few days, asking for a clear and clear vote on an industrial policy address and a strategic choice fundamental for our country to find us, perhaps, together in that vote, marginalizing the 5 Stars again. Moreover, in the two speeches by the elected in the 5 Star Movement that I have just heard (elected in the 5 Star Movement, but I do not know who they spoke on behalf of) there was almost satisfaction with the profiling of the closure of the Ilva, exactly the opposite of what the Democratic Party and you, Minister Patuanelli, have said in this House. Who speaks for the 5 Stars and how many voices does the Movimento 5 Stars have? That is why, if you will, we are open to a vote of national unity in Parliament on the issue of the dignity and survival of our country's industries. In fact, we all know that the Italian industry is based in its global competitiveness on domestic steel production: if Italy had a metal and automotive, household appliances and a competitive shipbuilding industry in the world, it had it because someone wisely wanted the country to invest in useful times in the steel industry. What we have witnessed in recent months and years and which we have unfortunately denounced has happened, because - and its reconstruction, Minister, does not analyze this story - in recent years and months in this country there has been a war between the Indian multinationals that tend to create a monopoly system in steel production on the skin of the Italian steel industry that was the first in Europe. In fact, the three large Indian multinationals fought to have the plants of Ilva, Terni and Piombino, and then, once they had this or had closed the plants, to do action of world steel dumping and to get out of global competitiveness the Italian and European industry. This is the guilty responsibility of the governments of the left, first, and of the second Conte Government, later, in underestimating the economic war that is being fought on the skin of technology, science and Italian industry in these months on this territory. How much did the years of extraordinary administration cost? To date, 3.3 billion euros have been spent; moreover, years in which the environmental plan has stopped, the deaths at work have increased and 2,000 people were already in the fund of integration. Then came the multinational Indian, or rather Franco-Indian, and the situation seemed to settle on a plan that - it is useless to hide it - was also based on the assumption of the criminal shield. Mr Minister, you read the newspapers as my five-star colleagues do first and foremost as I do; on the same day that what happened happened, here in this House we denounced him saying that he did not give an alibi to the Indian multinational. Sure, she probably felt locked up, locked up in a house, but what did you guys do? The multinational wanted to escape from that house, from that industry, but you provided her with the key with which she could escape from the house where she was locked up. That key was the insane and unholy repeal of the shield or mini criminal shield after you yourself introduced it. Minister Lezzi, when he was in office, voted in that direction, except then regret it once he lost the Ministry, for spite of such loss. I would have appreciated if Barbara Lezzi had resigned as Minister on that occasion, as did a certain Sergio Mattarella when he did not share the decisions that the Government was making on the so-called Mammi decree. I would have appreciated Barbara Lezzi because she would have shown sense and political dignity, but not after having changed position once she lost the Ministry and having passed among those who asked to repeal the shield that the Government itself had put in place and that had then been reiterated by the second Conte government. There is therefore absolutely a responsibility for providing an alibi to the Indian multinational. What is the prospect? The one you mentioned here to go to the international court? What is the prospect? The one indicated by your colleagues in the Group here, proposing that Ilva should be closed? Is it that, announced last night by Count, to present another provision on the criminal shield, except to read that Di Maio fought fiercely because he does not keep his own? What is the prospect? The one Conte explained to the Head of State just now? Count was received by the President of the Republic. Do we realize what that means? Everyone knows what that means. The country is not derailed on the TAV, but is in danger of derailing on the Ilva. The closure of Ilva is for us a triple drama, it is the Caporetto of Italian industry. We must realise this and say it in this House and react accordingly, as was the case with the defeat of Caporetto. Closing Ilva certainly means closing the most competitive European steel plant. The Indian groups had two strategies: to appropriate Ilva, which was still the most competitive industry, or to close it. They succeeded in the strategy for them less expensive: Closing Ilva and thus establishing their productive monopoly also in Italy and Europe. We had a chance, of course: it wasn't done. [[Call the president back.]] The image of the country is dramatic and not only because it flees a multinational company denouncing the government's failures, which do not only concern the criminal shield: the Indian multinational, like all the multinationals that would like to invest in this country, has been disconcerted by what happened in these sixteen months. It is obvious that they flee or do not invest in this country. But besides that, who will ever invest in this country again after the Indian multinational has brought us before the international court for unfulfilled commitments? Whoever wins, the image and dignity of the country will be trampled on; and that will indeed become a national drama. We're here. Tell us which direction and we'll go together. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Aimi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u170	I let you finish your speech, which I thought was a shame to interrupt, but I gave you an extra minute that I will also give to others, in the same situation, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u171	[[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u172	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u173	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to confirm immediately the confidence of the Democratic Party and myself in the work of Mr Patuanelli. Similarly, despite the various responsibilities, I wish to reaffirm our confidence in President Conte, who is working together with the whole Government to defuse a very serious crisis. A crisis that concerns not only Taranto, but that affects the whole country. A crisis that we imagined to be over and which, on the other hand, is dramatically up to date. In this sense, today's information on the situation of the former Ilva in this Chamber must serve to remove from the political debate, from the debate table, also parliamentary, all - and I stress all - alibis that risk to continue to condition the fate of the largest steel mill in Europe, which is strategic for our country, as you said today, Minister. That is why we must thank you for your immediate willingness to report to this House and to listen to our speeches. This is the time to clear the field of every alibi, starting with the paradoxically most dangerous ones, that is, the political ones. Today we must anchor ourselves to an approach of seriousness, which concerns everyone, even these Aules, not only those who are in the Government, but all, to start writing, possibly together, a new page, which may also frame a rule that defends those who decide to come and invest in Italy. A rule that for us Senators of the PD must be of a general nature and not only concern the dramatic crisis of the former Ilva, which we face, indeed we are facing again these days. A rule that remains so over time, to guarantee the seriousness of the country-system; seriousness that invests everyone, not only those who are at the government at a given historical moment. Who today does the show on the subject of the criminal shield is the same person who, just a few days ago, voted for its cancellation, without worrying or predicting, unlike what we of the Democratic Party have done, guarantees for the right to work and health of the citizens of Taranto. In this different approach, once again, the substantial difference between what you in the League voted a few days ago and what we voted in this House just a week ago is apparent. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a significant step; it is not insignificant for those with parliamentary culture. We have requested and obtained the commitment of the whole Government, signed in the acceptance of a structured agenda, to guarantee, among other things, the permanence of the productive activity of the Taranto steel complex in rapid times and by appropriate action. Therefore, today, for honesty and seriousness, those who continue to beat the bass with hypocritical speculations, because in the continuous search to speculate on consent, would do better to silence. In fact, Captain Salvini, just to give the most obvious example, today he is without a shield and is not even in the Chamber, just to change. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I just said he's not in the Chamber, I think it's obvious to everyone. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u174	Senator Stefano, speak to the presidency. I call on my colleagues to allow Senator Stefano to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u175	Please, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (PD). I say this because, always to stay with the alibis, as confirmed a few minutes ago by Minister Patuanelli, the legal shield is no longer such. This is no longer the theme on the table of this crisis; it is no longer the theme since its reoffering does not cover redundancies for 5,000 units requested by ArcelorMittal. Faced with this state of affairs, a serious country, an adult Republic must close the ranks and cement them with a sharing between Government and Parliament to recognize that we are faced with a terrible responsibility that involves a matter of national interest. In fact, talking about Ilva and Taranto, today as yesterday, means talking about the whole country. There is therefore no time, no space for the present and future of Ilva, the present and future of Taranto, the present and future of steel production in Italy can be used as a Scratch and Win of the electoral consensus, or - worse - become the ground of experimentation of ideological visions that are irreducible enemies of a choice that must be rational, but also political. We all know that Ilva has a long and complex history, whose roots lie in an idea of wrong development, because it is incapable of keeping growth, environment and health together. A long story that, unfortunately, has not only invested Taranto, but that finds precisely in that plant and in that city the anomalies that we are called to remove, looking forward and not claiming positions instrumental to today's media consensus. In this sense, the advancement in research and the new technologies already today allow us to accompany a new course to this reality and to change a destiny that we cannot yet write on the red dust of the mining parks (and that, precisely for this reason, we want to continue to cover). We are called today to deal with this reality, which obliges us to take the measures of what Ilva means and what its closure entails. In fact, a little more than forty-eight hours from the terrible data of the Svimez, which speak of a South already in economic recession and increasingly farther from the locomotives of the country, would mean giving up an investment of more than 4 billion euros in a territory that needs activities and initiatives; it would mean dilating the cogency of the environmental reclamation to times and terms indefinite and that now are already in progress; it would mean sending home more than 20,000 workers, with a devastating explosion of the economic and social fabric, on which came the warning of all the territorial representations; it would mean deciding to lose the production of almost 6 million tons of steel and determine a worrying imbalance in the import of the same, which is material of which our industrial system cannot do without, as you, Minister, said well. It would mean suddenly losing 1.4% of GDP; it would mean paying, in order to close the steel works and not to restart, a monster figure of EUR 24 billion: almost the same cost, ladies and gentlemen, as the Salvini tax, that of the increase in VAT that we find engaged in these same days in the discussion of the maneuver, to which we should add yet another billion. That is the reality. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] CHORO FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. That's how we want you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u176	Colleagues, I'm sorry, are you playing Atalanta? What game are we talking about? Please stay calm. We're not at the stadium. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Stefano, you have to talk about Ilva, not VAT! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Please, Senator Romeo. Please, colleague Stefano, finish, you still have two minutes. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, that's enough, though: let him finish. It is clear that you do not share what he is saying, and I think that we have all understood that, but let him tell you. STEFANO (PD). I repeat, Mr President, we are talking about almost the same cost as the Salvini tax, that of the increase in VAT that we are averting. [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. It's Ilva, not VAT! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Connect Stefano, I would urge you not to cause further moments of interruption. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u177	This is the reality, the one with which we are called to reckon, not the discounts, like those that presumptuously demands ArcelorMittal. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. In politics there is worse than a crime: making a mistake. Do not do everything possible, at any cost, to save that complex issue, not only industrial, which I summarize with the expression ex Ilva, is the worst mistake that the entire Italian political class can decide to commit today. We want to move on and that is why we reaffirm our confidence in the work of Mr Toninelli. [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. You're number one, partner Stefano! You're number one! [[Applause and ironic comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry, Minister Patuanelli!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u178	Mr Stefano has never been the subject of such acclamation. Please, colleagues from the League, have a seat. [[Senator Stefano points out that he wants to intervene.]] For the truth, Mr Stefano, you have concluded your speech; however, since we have not understood whether you have concluded - let us pretend that you have not understood - I give you another twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u179	Mr President, I was concluding by reaffirming our esteem and confidence in the work of Mr Patuanelli. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Finally! STEFANO (PD). It is my concern, Mr President, that this climate of responsibility, to which we all want to refer, is approached by our colleagues in the League in this style and in this way. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u180	Let me decide that, Senator. Unfortunately, I do not believe that occasions of dispute are the exclusive practice of one Group rather than another, depending on the moments and circumstances. Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u181	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the Minister here is not Toninelli, but Patuanelli, and that there was no VAT on the agenda, but Ilva, so obviously we were talking about another sitting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is true, Mr President, Minister, that there are no longer the communists of the past or perhaps there are no more communists if, dealing with such an important issue that concerns our splendid nation and the future of about 20,000 workers, the benches of the Government, at the time when there is the most left-wing Executive in the history of the Italian Republic, are vacant and empty: we see sitting there desolate - and we regret - only the new Minister of Economic Development. There are no longer the communists of the past, no longer exist, if, despite this social drama, from the left bank of this Chamber we hear only rhymes and poems, but not even a solution and not even a prospect to come out of this dramatic situation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Minister, I have a few minutes, but I want to say one thing in advance: what I will say is not addressed to your person, but it is addressed to the person responsible for this situation, who, knowing he is responsible, is absent guilty. I am referring to President Conte, who is the real author of this social disaster that is living in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As someone said earlier, Count must remember that he is not the lawyer, because to bring a case where there are conditions to do so is a duty of public administration and it is a duty of the State. But to your observation and to your observation, Minister, that you are suing ArcelorMittal, I ask you: and in the meantime what will happen to those establishments, what will happen to those workers who only a year ago saw hope shine on them? In fact, they had seen the journey of a factory, of a new path, of an induced one. I say with respect, Minister: if you had been an attorney and had defended today a defendant in the Chamber of a criminal court in the same way, with the same intensity and with the same strategy with which you presented this very bad report (let me do so), this defendant would have taken the maximum of the penalty, with all the aggravating factors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] It is not possible simply to tell a story without indicating a solution; it is not acceptable at this time. She asks us to work together. The League is there: Matteo Salvini said this yesterday and our Parent Company reiterated it today. We will do everything to ensure that one job is not lost. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The problem is that you are not there, and not only physically; there is no design, you have destroyed Plan A, but you still do not see Plan B. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And do not say that the criminal shield has nothing to do with it, because, with the abolition of article 14 of the decree saves companies, that all of you (PD and Italy Viva) voted with confidence, you armed ArcelorMittal and provided him with the alibi to do everything that is happening today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] This is the truth; otherwise, it would not explain Renzi's back-front, it would not explain the back-front of the Democratic Party, it would not explain the opening of President Conte made last night, who said he was in favour of the reinstatement of the criminal shield. Why this? If it was an alibi, why did you give it to him? He who grants an alibi is an accomplice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But we care about these workers and we say to you: do you want to cooperate? Opportunity's around the corner now. Vote for our amendment, the amendment of the League that provides for the reinstatement of the criminal shield in the climate decree. Let's start with this assumption to work together. We are there, because we are convinced and we are convinced also because the problems are serious. It is we who say that we do not touch a single job that must comply with the industrial plan. The real problem is this Government, which is incapable, divided, confused and inconsistent within its own positions. I do not see former Minister Barbara Lezzi, who yesterday said a falsehood, namely that, thanks to Matteo Salvini and the League, they repealed the criminal shield.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u182	Begin to conclude, because it is already abundantly out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u183	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. The truth is that former Minister Barbara Lezzi, at the Council of Ministers on 6 August, in which the decree-law saves businesses was approved, was present and voted favorably on the criminal shield! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is clear that today he cannot change his mind, because he has changed his mind so many times. (Exchange of apostrophes between the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups). Mr President, allow me a few seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had five minutes, you can't split up the time and then talk a lot. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). As a man from the South, allow me one last thought. COLLINA (PD). A Southman at the North League! PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I repeat that it is a problem of our nation, from Piedmont to Calabria, but as a man of the South I address a prayer to Minister Toninelli, tell President Conte... [[Laughter of Senators Laus and Stefano.]] Patuanelli, you forgive Minister Patuanelli! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You really have to finish now. It's good practice to manage time. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). By the way, Senator Stephen is a Southern man like me. Minister Patuanelli, tell President Conte not to elect himself as a South patriot: he cannot do this, because he is the continuation of who brought us to our knees. [[Live applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u184	All right, thank you, that was very clear. That is why I am opposed to dividing time into two: it would be more correct to follow the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to a senator for each Group. He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u185	Mr Patuanelli, I listened carefully to your speech and especially appreciated the last part of it, which is why I would really like to say: welcome to reality! [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u186	My colleagues at the League will listen to what Senator Damiani says, as he has listened to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u187	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President, for this point and I would like to take the floor again, stressing how I appreciated Mr Patuanelli's report, particularly in the last part, that of the conclusions. I would really like to say welcome in reality and in the real country, what its political movement does not know nor has ever known in this legislature and in this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] So much so that some of my colleagues have even written to me "Patuanelli" one of us, really appreciating the final intervention. Dear Minister, before you, there was a predecessor in that chair, who has caused indescribable disasters in our country. I want to remind you: it was September 8, 2018, when the then Minister of Labour and Economic Development Luigi Di Maio, with his triumphalist tone and a smile with thirty-two teeth printed on his mouth, said: We solved the crisis in Ilva in three months, when those of before in six years, or rather, in twenty years had not been able to. These are appalling words, if you read them today, in the light of what has happened, as a demonstration of the superficiality with which the problem has been addressed. Today we wonder what Minister Di Maio has to say: it would have been more useful to admit public responsibility and apologies to the citizens, workers and families of Taranto; instead he has escaped, as usual and as he has always been good at doing, Minister Di Maio, who therefore has nothing to confess or tell us, because he is engaged abroad, however committed to laughing about other disasters that he will surely be combining in his new Ministry. You have therefore inherited a very difficult situation, Minister, so much so that today you assume all responsibility for what can happen. It is a difficult situation and with the result still incalculable. One thing that did not concern you directly and which you are invested in today, the result of a management that comes from a recent past, but not from someone far away, comes from some person very close to you, because that is your party leader, who today has brought about disasters not only on Ilva, but also on Whirlpool and Alitalia, leaving hundreds and hundreds of families in the street. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] That is the truth of the facts. The indecent rebound of the shield yes, shield no, is the plastic example of the lack of a strategy in the management of a highly critical phase of the country's industrial policy, demonstrating that today the Government or the Movement and the Ministry, with the political direction that emerged in all these months, absolutely has no idea where you are going. In the document, which we have all called for in this House too, the relegation to Ilva of companies and the 10,777 employees, it is stated that the withdrawal from the contract derives precisely from the elimination of legal protection, which was therefore a prerequisite for the participation of companies in the same competition. So be it a known defeat, announced for a long time, and despite this you were able to approve last week the measure that removed legal protection: knowing it, because it was already written in the papers! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You did. You had the great ability to do that. It is clear that we all care and, as far as Taranto is concerned, the environmental issue is an unavoidable priority, but to exploit it, as you have done all these years and as the Movimento 5 Stars did especially in Puglia, making a vicious electoral campaign, is shameful. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have no idea how to deal with it, because it's not just about making ads about the environment or thinking and launching the absolutely smiling idea of a playground in Taranto: you absolutely have to find the tools to solve environmental problems and communicate to citizens what they are. In 2019 it is possible because it can be done, and it is necessary to combine development, the right to work and health protection. It is very important and we can certainly succeed, but how can we do it? We can only succeed by removing from your head the simplistic narration of the monster that pollutes and sends 20,000 families and 20,000 workers to sea, which is only a false and distorted narration. Dear Minister, if you want to reason with oppositions and with Forza Italia you must remove this narrative from your head because, as I said, today we must combine the right to health, which is a priority, with the right to work and development you can do, but we must remove these ideas from our heads. Steel is today the most used and most important material for construction, mechanical engineering and mobility. Therefore, losing this strategic company for our country is just madness, it could really be yet another disaster of a government that, as previously said, does not have a vision of the country. So far, the only idea of the country that has had and which has implemented - just see the approved measures - is just the electoral bills, which you had signed in the electoral campaign. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The truth always comes to the comb! Citizenship income, like so many other measures, is money thrown into the wind, which today can be used for the environmental rehabilitation of Taranto! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Remember these things. But no, you're just paying the electoral bills for the false promises you made to those territories. It hurts, but unfortunately this is the truth and it must be said absolutely, because it has speculated electorally on the question: you have drawn possible worlds and created the dilemma between work and health, so health is not work. But no, the two can go hand in hand. It is certainly a complex situation, not an immediate one, which can be dealt with by putting everyone around a table, with good will on our part too. In recent years, however, the question of Ilva has been the victim of the excess demagogy that has been around what is the priority right, which is the right to health. A distorted vision that must be rejected if we really want to come to the bottom of it, because - it is useless to remind you, Minister, you know very well - there are not only jobs at stake, but also 1.5% of GDP, which, in a time of pronounced recession, as yesterday's Svimez data declared for Italy and the Mezzogiorno, we absolutely cannot afford to lose. Ilva is the country system and that is why today it must be protected, it must be saved and we must go in that direction. It is time to stop with the childish contrast between work and health. It is necessary to ask all the actors of the affair a surplus of responsibility and maturity, in order to look at what must be a vision that goes beyond the horizon that you have given yourselves in this year and a half of government, that is exclusively the horizon of electoral polls. We must go further and look absolutely at the future of the country. We at Forza Italia will continue our battle every day in the parliamentary classrooms: we did it yesterday, we did it today and we will do it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow; on every measure we will bring the amendments with regard to the restoration of the criminal shield. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We will do - we are already implementing it - strong political action. Last but not least, we have tabled a motion in these minutes to allow Ilva to continue not only to produce, thus safeguarding jobs as well, but also to allow important public investment in environmental recovery, which can be absolutely flanked. Here are the tarantines what they want: the presence of the State, and they want it in this form, that is, with concrete investments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And this can be done by financial maneuvering. So our motion also provides for this and above all that the strategic industrial pole of Taranto and of our entire nation is and continues to be the most important in Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u188	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a hand, because I must have missed the part where it is written that the law is the same for everyone except for multinationals, which may have a little less criminal responsibility for environmental crimes. Just as I must have missed the part where people say that the law is the same for everyone except for multinationals, that they can blackmail governments by threatening to blow up an occupational bomb. Those who think that there is only one exception to the rule, that is, the prediction of a criminal shield, are mistaken; those who think that it is only a complaint between ArcelorMittal and the Government did not understand the underlying political question. Granting to a multinational, which blackmails with the lever of labor or production, an exception to the rule means disassembling another piece of the law that holds a community. It is the continuous challenge that neoliberalism imposes on us: on the one hand, the anomy of globalization and, on the other, the harmony of the Constitution. That is what we are talking about. Do we want to give a multinational the right to win against national law? Do we want neoliberalism to rub another piece of national sovereignty? Now is the time to take the cards down. Here I come to another sore spot. I honestly did not expect the defense of the arrogant motives of a multinational by those who profess to be sovereignists. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , who still today uses the slogan "masters in our home," allowing the only master of the game to command in the home of the Italians. This is a little weird, a little weird. Where, then, is the defense of the sovereignty of the people? Here there is still the same challenge launched by the global champions to the sovereign people: "You, dear people, must be subjected to the blackmail of the multinational". So what hand does the rules write? The hand of another foreigner who comes with predatory pursuit. Other than sovereignism, other than "first the Italians" and "masters at our home"! ArcelorMittal is not a savior of the Homeland, but an entrepreneur with a neoliberal identity card; he is the player of a globalization where only the rule "brigand, brigand and a half" is respected. Well, to ArcelorMittal we say - reminding ourselves - that no entrepreneur can think of passing over the rules that a community has given itself to live in the balance of rights and duties. If five workers die in the former Ilva in the last three years, it means that in fact someone thinks that you can derogate from the minimum safety rules because my feudal lord represents a higher force than the laws. Those who dispute that the elimination of the shield represents an alibi to leave are in the same way as those who thought that with the precariousness of the job we would put the entrepreneurs in a position to hire. And so we slipped into the progressive calculation of the minimum rules, because to those who act as master the exceptions will never be enough. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why I ask you to think carefully about this other blackmail, which is always the same. Work presupposes respect. If globalization is a land of pirates, then a serious state defends itself and launches a serious Italian challenge with the Italian steel champions, who are still there, and with the guarantee of a public capital that gives an industrial perspective not impacting neither the environment and nor the health of workers and citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think that an eco-sustainable steel industry - there are also ample examples and one is close in Austria to Linz - is possible. We also say this to that Europe whose genome is the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). Coal we can overcome, but steel we can't; we can work it under better conditions than bad entrepreneurs would like to impose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u190	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Economic Development, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u191	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-164.ana.u192	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 18.11 a.m.)
