ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.34 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the constituent sessions of the Committees of Inquiry into the banking and financial system and the events that have taken place in the Il Forteto community, already convened today at 6 p.m., are postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u3	I communicate to the Assembly that Senator Nazario Pagano has submitted a request in order to initiate the procedure, provided for in the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, governed by Articles 4 and 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970 for the request for a referendum, by one fifth of the members of the Senate of the Republic on the constitutional law containing: "Amendments to Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution regarding the reduction of the number of parliamentarians" approved by the Senate of the Republic, in second vote - with the absolute majority of its members - at the sitting of 11 July 2019, and by the Chamber of Deputies, in second vote - with a majority of two thirds of its members - at the sitting of 8 October 2019, as communicated in the Official Journal No 240 of 12 October 2019, pursuant to Article 3 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970. Senators Pagano, Cangini and Nannicini are appointed as delegates to deposit the request for a referendum at the Registry of the Court of Cassation, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 6 of the cited Law No 352 of 1970. The quorum for submitting the request for a referendum is 65 signatures. The request must be received at the Registry of the Court of Cassation within three months of the publication of the aforementioned notice, i.e. by 12 January 2020 (Article 4, second paragraph, of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970). The papers for the signing of the referendum request are available to the senators at the Pannini Hall of Palazzo Madama until 8 p.m. this evening. From tomorrow and on Monday to Friday the request can be signed from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Officials delegated by the Secretary General will authenticate the signatures of the honourable senators, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1476. The rapporteur, Senator Girotto, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this decree-law, which contains a whole series of interventions on the protection of workers, recruitment, the ISEE and the resolution of corporate crises, comes to the House after a long and complex investigation in the Joint Industry and Labour Commissions. The amendments adopted during the examination in the Contact Committees have expanded the content of the measure, bringing considerable improvements to the basic text. These improvements are aimed, inter alia, at further strengthening the rights and protection of the weakest categories of workers, increasing the resources provided for social shock absorbers in crisis areas, stabilising the precarious staff of public bodies and regions (from the LSU to ANPAL staff), overcoming the criticalities associated with the rankings of competitions for access to public employment and strengthening environmental protection measures. Let me first thank the majority and opposition senators for the collaborative spirit and the offices of the 10th and 11th Commissions for the valuable support they have provided during these complex days. Special thanks go to Dr. De Salvo. Turning to the content and structure of the decree-law in question, the measure is divided into two chapters: the first is dedicated to the protection of the work and the second contains provisions on the business crisis. Before explaining in detail the measures provided for in Article 1, entirely replaced by the Government's amendment 1,100, I would like to focus once again on the importance and innovative nature of this rule, by which, for the first time, rights and safeguards are guaranteed to a category of workers, the riders, almost completely ignored by national legislation. Article 1, paragraph 1, letter a) concerns the scope of the rule, which from the point of view of private law subject to the rules of employment relationships also certain collaboration relationships. The latter, according to the current norm, consist of the collaboration relationships that result in exclusively personal, continuous work services and whose execution methods are organized by the client also with reference to the times and places of work. The report specifies that the standard under consideration also applies where the performance modalities are organised through digital platforms. Following the adoption of amendment 1,100, it is proposed to amend the above general definition of collaboration relationships linked to the rules of employment. In particular, the amendment proposes to replace, in the qualification of work services, the expression "personal" exclusively with the expression "personal" and to delete the reference to time and place of work. The following subparagraph (b) reduces the contribution requirement for the daily sickness allowance, the hospital allowance, maternity leave and parental leave for the so-called separate INPS management and increases the measure of the daily sickness allowance and the hospital allowance for the same persons. Paragraph (c) of paragraph 1 introduces a specific discipline, intended to lay down minimum levels of protection for the working relationships of persons (so-called riders) who carry out activities of delivery of goods on behalf of others, in the urban environment and with the help of certain vehicles, with reference to the cases in which the organization of the activities is carried out through platforms also digital and provided that the same relationships do not fall (under the meaning of the novella referred to in paragraph (a) above) in the concept of dependent work. According to the text of the decree-law, the discipline in question applies only one hundred and eighty days after the entry into force of the law of conversion of the same decree (paragraph 2 of this Article 1). On the basis of the rewording proposed by amendment 1,100 and sub-amendment 1,100/18 (text 2), approved by the Joint Commissions 10a and 11a, the new rules would come into force at the same time as the entry into force of the said conversion law, with the exception of: compensation rules, which would enter into force twelve months after the entry into force of the conversion law; compulsory insurance rules against accidents at work and occupational diseases; occupational safety rules, which would enter into force ninety days after the entry into force of the conversion law. The same amendment 1,100 proposes: a specific discipline on the form of the individual contract with the workers concerned and the information to be received by the workers concerned; a revision of the rules on the compensation of the workers concerned, compared to the version laid down by the Decree-Law; the inclusion of the reference to the anti-discrimination discipline and to that of the protection of the freedom and dignity of the worker provided for by the employees. Again with regard to the self-employed, this point (c) also defines the terms of application of the INAIL compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases and the general rules on safety at work and provides for the establishment of a permanent observatory at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Forgive me for coming into particular detail on this article - I will try to be faster on others - but I think, as I said earlier, the provisions really approved a major step forward for the protection of the rights of all workers in this country. The following Article 2 reduces the contribution requirement for the so-called DIS-COLL unemployment benefit. This treatment relates to workers with a coordinated and continuous relationship of collaboration, checkers and PhD students with a scholarship, who are registered exclusively for the above-mentioned separate INPS management, who do not have a pension and do not have a VAT number. Article 3 provides for the quantification and measures to cover the costs arising from Article 1 (1) (b) and Article 2. With the approval of amendment 3.0.100, the Commissions meeting 10a and 11a have also approved a provision to provide that mandatory communications by employers on recruitment, change and termination of employment relationships are transmitted electronically to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, instead of the ANPAL, as currently envisaged. Article 4 amends the rules on the use of an existing appropriation of EUR 2 million per year from 2019, relating to additional staff costs ANPAL Servizi SpA. With the approval of the identical amendments 4.2 (text 3) and 4.3 (text 3), the Commissions joined 10a and 11a propose to allow the said company to employ without a time limit all the staff who have already served with a fixed-term contract and to ban in the three-year period 2019-2021 specific competitive procedures, for the permanent recruitment, for the staff who have gained, by 1 January 2019, specific professional experiences with a collaboration contract with the same company. Article 5 increases, to the extent of 1,003 units for area C personnel, the organic allocation of the INPS in relation to financial resources already allocated by existing rules. With the approval of amendment 5.0.100, the Commissions joined 10a and 11a have planned to entrust to the Italian society of services for the supplementary pension (SISPI), entirely participated from the INPS, the activities of multi-channel contact center (the so-called CCM) towards the users, the natural expiration of the contracts in existence within the same activities, in compliance with the provisions in the matter of in house providing. The Commissions also decided to strengthen their efforts to combat accidents at work and to protect the health and safety of workers by increasing the national labour inspectorate for 2021 by up to 150 staff units, with the approval of amendment 5.0.1 (text 4). Article 6 postpones, from 31 October 2019 to 31 December 2019, the time limit for possible extensions of agreements and fixed-term contracts relating to socially useful workers (LSUs) or engaged in public utility activities (APUs). In the latter respect, with the adoption of amendment 6.1, the Commissions, meeting 10a and 11a, propose to extend the scope of public administrations which may use these recruitment procedures. With the approval of amendment 6.0.3 (text 2 corrected), the Commissions together provide for a revision of the transitional rules on the validity of the rankings of competition procedures for recruitment of staff in public administrations. This transitional framework, both in the current rule and in accordance with the novel proposed by the amendment, is intended to gradually restore, without prejudice to the lower periods of existence provided for by regional laws, the three-year period of validity, which is applicable to the rankings approved from 1 January 2019. Article 7 amends the rules on updating the data contained in the Single Replacement Declaration (SSU) relating to the determinations of the equivalent economic situation indicator (ISEE). Article 8 allows the fund for the right to work for disabled people to be fed also through payments by private individuals, on a spontaneous and supportive basis. Coming now to Chapter II, which brings, following the amendments approved by the Commissions, as many important rules as Chapter I, I refer in particular to Article 9, which allocates additional resources to the Regions of Sardinia and Sicily for the continuation, in 2019, of treatments of extraordinary wage integration by derogation or mobility by derogation, recognized to employed workers or already employed in areas of complex industrial crisis. For the new financial intervention is established a limit equal to 3,5 million euros for the Sardinia Region and 30 million for the Sicilian Region. With the approval of amendment 9.0.0100 (text 2), the Commissions meeting 10a and 11a propose to increase, for 2019, the financial resources allocated to the extension of extraordinary wage integration treatments granted for reorganization, corporate crisis or solidarity contract. Article 10 allows, within the expenditure limit of EUR 1.5 million for 2019, the application of the above-mentioned rules on mobility treatments by way of derogation in favour of workers in the complex industrial crisis area Venafro-Campochiaro-Bojano and areas of the induced person who, on 31 December 2016, are beneficiaries of ordinary mobility treatment or mobility treatment by way of derogation, unless the same, on the date of entry into force of this Decree-Law, are not recipients of citizenship income. Article 11 provides for the exemption of undertakings operating in the manufacture of household appliances from the payment of the additional contribution due in the event of recourse to wage integration treatment. The benefit shall be recognised where the undertakings concerned have a staff of more than 4,000 units and production units located in the national territory, of which at least one in a complex industrial crisis area, and provided that the same undertakings have concluded solidarity contracts providing for the agreed reduction of working time of not less than 15 months in 2019. With the approval of amendment 11.1 (text 3), the activity of cableway staff, intended for sports activities in skiing and mountain areas, and the management of ski slopes is included in the list of seasonal activities for which exemption is provided for from the payment of the additional contribution for employment relationships not without a time limit. Among the amendments approved in the Commissions on support for workers, including self-employed workers, are: amendment 11.0.100, which proposes to introduce a new form of financing for certain mobility treatments by way of derogation for workers who have ceased the treatment of wage integration by way of derogation in the period from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 and who are not entitled to the use of Naspi (due to the absence of the requirements inherent in the contribution or the minimum duration of actual work); amendment 11.0.18 (text 2) which extends the compensation paid as a result of the cessation of commercial activity to persons in possession of certain requirements during the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018. Article 12 introduces rules for strengthening the cooperation structure between the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a structure for monitoring policies aimed at combating the decline of the productive apparatus. With the adoption of amendments 12.1 and 12.2 (text 2), the Commissions together propose, respectively, some important measures on incompatibility for staff who have been part of the structure and the extension of the institutional framework of cooperation and transparency to which the structure is called, providing for the possibility for parliamentarians to participate in the crisis tables covering the territories in which they were elected. Article 13 - which intervenes in actions to promote decarbonisation, on which so much still needs to be done and hopefully can be done with this Government - allocates the annual share of the proceeds from CO2 auctions, exceeding the value of 1 billion euros: to a maximum of 100 million euros for 2020 and 150 million euros per year from 2021, to the Fund for the energy transition in the industrial sector, to finance decarbonisation and energy efficiency interventions in the industrial sector; to a maximum of 20 million euros per year for the period 2020-2024, to the Fund for the conversion of jobs in the territories where coal-fired power stations are located. In addition, with the adoption of amendment 13.0.1 (correct text), the Commissions meeting 10a and 11a propose certain rules on controls and sanctions concerning incentives for renewable energy sources. We have finally succeeded in approving these rules, which will certainly help the sector, after an in-depth investigation that has been going on for at least a year. With the approval of amendment 13.0.2 (text 3) the Commissions together have the increase (in the measure of EUR 500,000 for 2019, of EUR 1 million for 2020 and of EUR 5 million for 2021) of the Fund's allocation for sustainable growth, in order to support the birth and development of small and medium-sized cooperative societies, consisting predominantly of workers from companies in crisis. This, colleagues, is the famous tool of the buyout workers that is doing so well in some areas of the national and global territory and that could do even better. With the approval of the identical amendments 14.1 and 14.2, the Commissions meeting 10a and 11a propose the deletion of Article 14 of this Decree-Law, which intervenes on the provision that excludes the criminal and administrative liability of the extraordinary commissioner, the tenant or the buyer of the Ilva of Taranto in relation to the conducts carried out in implementation of the planned environmental plan. With the approval of amendment 14.0.3 (text 3) the Commissions together propose the intervention in the matter of the cessation of the qualification of refusal (the so-called end of waste), quoting to this end Article 184-b of the environmental code, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 152 of 3 April 2006, and bringing to paragraphs 4 to 10 further provisions in this regard. This is also a subject that we have committed ourselves to resolving as soon as possible to give the outlet to many companies operating in the circular economy and that we are particularly proud to put in place with this measure. Finally, Article 15 introduces several amendments to Article 47 of Decree-Law No 34 of 30 April 2019, converted by Law No 58 of 28 June 2019, which established the Fund saves works to ensure the rapid completion of public works and protect workers. With the approval of amendment 15.1 the Commissions together propose the postponement from 31 October 2019 to 31 December 2019 of the deadline within which the municipalities benefiting from contributions for the implementation of projects relating to investments in energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development must start work. Colleagues, these are those famous 500 million which could be used by many municipalities which were, however, late with the questions. Therefore, we give them two more months to take advantage of these funds. With the approval of some identical amendments, the Commissions together propose the abolition of the Italian Youth Hotels Association (GIA) and the establishment of a non-economic public body called the Italian Youth Hotels Agency (EIG). Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me once again thank all the staff, the legislative office and all the officials who helped us. The measure was really complex and was also the first, so the mechanisms were not oiled at all. In particular, I would like to thank the Leaders - both my group and those of majority and opposition - who have not spared themselves at all, with absolutely stakanovist working hours. I thank the majority, but also the opposition, because all the work has taken place in an absolutely respectful and collaborative atmosphere, which has allowed us to bring this measure to the Chamber, albeit with some delay, but in time for its conversion into law. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u7	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Piazza Capri in Rome who attend our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u8	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it is a pity that Mr Catalfo has left because my speech will be focused on riders. I understand the urgency of dealing with corporate crises, particularly that of Ilva, and I do not want to make any reflection in this regard, but I would have expected that the extraordinary and emerging theme - let's say so - of riders would have a little more in-depth reflection and not be included in this decree-law, and therefore contemplate an umpteenth amendment to Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015. The two subjects of tax and labour have always been truly distracted in our country; they are faced with little organic reforms within them, and not only: they are also little organic in the areas of overlap that necessarily exist between tax and labour and that influence the economy and society. On the other hand, the riders' theme had to enter into a more in-depth reflection on the new industrial relations that characterize the 21st century, that is that century - alas - which is very much driven by digitalization. Senator Paragon in the 10th Commission, when we spoke on this subject, said that we must strike a balance between the needs of globalisation and the protection of workers' incompressible rights. I would like to say to Senator Paragon and this House that we are far beyond globalisation: we are in the age of digitalization, that it is at an incredible speed and that it has dark areas on which we have not yet been able to reflect in Italy, because this market is still uncertain and at dawn. We are at least fifteen years behind other countries: I compare myself with the United Kingdom, Europe, the United States and China, in the rest of the world. The riders, with all due respect, represent a small portion of the digital workers, of the digital workers. They are not even 10%, they will be 10,000 people to whom - for goodness sake - we certainly need attention and respect, especially because we believe that a worker should be paid, in accordance with Article 36 of the Constitution, for the quality and quantity of his professional and working performance. However, I repeat, there are at least 700,000 workers in this area that we do not consider. That is why I say that this issue should not be dealt with in this way. The way in which you are dealing with it sees two opposing categories, that of the employee and that of the self-employed. We must try to go far beyond the confrontation between capital and labour and far beyond the contrast between self-employment and self-employment, which are certainly two distinct categories and which must be treated in terms of insurance and social security protection in a balanced and homogeneous manner. So, of course, those who characterize this phenomenon are self-employed. We have heard in the 10th Commission many representatives of the riders, who have asked us not to make them employees, because they want to continue to be VAT-code workers. Clearly, these workers must be guaranteed all insurance and social security protection, which have those who are included in a national collective agreement of employment. To extend, however, by analogy, the characteristics of a similar contract, such as that of logistics, to this category, means not to face the industrial relations of the 21st century with the right vision, which requires a lot of knowledge and I believe that none of us, in here, has gained due knowledge about this sector of the economy of our country and the world economy, because - as I said at the beginning - it is an immature sector, which must still be observed. Then, of course, there is the theme of the digital caporalate, which is also defined as the theme of intelligent clickworkers, which must surely be followed, with control actions and subsequent sanctions, but which must be put at the head of those who hold these digital platforms. Let me explain better: the clickworkers, i.e. the workers who click on the keyboard, have found very intelligent methods to deceive the robots, who coordinate their work, that is to say they have divided the micro-tasks entrusted and subcontracted them to other micro-workers, who are called micro-jobbers and who are underpaid. We must certainly intervene there, because around the data, which are central to the real economy and which are generators of wealth, as I have said so many times, is about to proliferate an economy, which is quantified, in a very short time, around EUR 200 billion. They are stratospheric numbers and therefore we have to find a way to intervene there, but not by decree-laws, to go to regulate small sections, because this, to be very clear, means not having control over the digital phenomenon, in its vast complexity. I am referring above all to the other part of Parliament, the left, which has not governed the phenomenon of globalisation in the twentieth century and now thinks of governing the phenomenon of digitalization, which alas has already slipped out of hand. I repeat: we find a point of balance in this contrast, which cannot be ideological, between subordinate work and self-employment, because - I say it really aloud - there are many of these workers, who are part of the so-called ghost workers, the workers ghosts, who are on the other side of the world, not only in the industrialized countries, but also in those not industrialized and who want to work in the shadows. They are those workers who bring wealth by working around the machines. External observers sometimes think that machines, with artificial intelligence, do everything, but that's not the case and we have seen it in the progress that artificial intelligence has made on machine learning: there are so many workers back there, who control the data and control the process. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I must invite you to conclude, Senator Tiraboschi. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). I will finish now, Mr President. They are workers who do not have great intelligence, but who carry out an important part of their work and want to continue to do it independently, managing their time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u10	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u11	Mr President, we are about to discuss today a very important measure, a decree-law which contains urgent provisions for the protection of labour and, in particular, to ensure the economic and regulatory protection of certain categories of workers. I certainly appreciate the Government's commitment to solving the issues contained in the measure. However, I would like to make a few points in view of the debate last week on the President-in-Office's communications to the Senate. I would point out that we are certainly pursuing issues relating to the measure, but it must not be relegated to a broader vision, to what legislative activity does, however, involve on it. I am talking about the Update Note to the Economics and Finance Document and the financial maneuver that, however, go towards this. I read in the dossiers that small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of all businesses in the European Union and 85% of the new jobs created in the last five years. In order to facilitate the welding of small businesses and innovation, the new European Commission intends to present a strategy through which small and medium-sized enterprises can thrive by reducing red tape. There is a Member speaking to you who, before being a Member of Parliament, is mayor and, before that, an employee in expectation of a small and medium-sized enterprise, an industrial expert with a contract of a metal worker, therefore not an entrepreneur. That is why I hope for a broader vision with the next tax decree and the budget law. You already have in hand, you of the majority, a measure, the flat tax, which I have news will not be expanded on the audience of 100,000 euros for the flat-rate. Let us remember that companies have the opportunity to benefit from tax reductions, having tax at 15%, with the emergence of undeclared work and the possibility of hiring new employees. The flat tax goes precisely towards the decrease of the taxes, but also of the bureaucracy and however I have learned that on the audience of the 65,000 euros have been approved modifications that go to put of the stakes and therefore put in trouble those who want to be part of the regime of the flat tax. Recently with NADEF, which is also connected to the measure in our examination, we are talking about a recovery of seven billion evasions. I would point out that I do not justify evasion, but let us put ourselves in the shoes of companies, which are not only in the North, which are subject to a tax burden of 65 to 70%. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These companies work for the state, and it is not right that this should be the case, as at the time of the Soviet Union. These companies are the locomotive of the Italian economy and in this way you go to vex them again, putting in trouble not only them, but also the employees, workers that in Veneto, in Triveneto and also in other areas of Italy, breathe both the positive moments and the business difficulties, that give everything for their company, where an employer is in symbiosis with his employees. When the Conte- bis government with the entire left, Democratic Party, Italy alive, Movimento 5 Stars and Free and Equal, will give the input to these controls to recover 7 billion, the Finance Guard will certainly do its job diligently, but it is only right that we know - even through this Assembly - who are in charge of such controls, when the Finance Guard will ring the bell or call our entrepreneurs in relation. Dear entrepreneurs, dear employees, here you want to help through the resolution of corporate crises, but corporate crises will increase exponentially, with the risk of closing VAT matches of our companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I come from Veneto, but I also listened to Umbrian entrepreneurs, who are also in difficulty. They saw a note of hope with the previous government, but now they're very scared, and I think they're right. The current Executive, in my opinion, is making a mistake: tax cuts and investments on the Finance Guard are to be made. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Staying on the substance of the measure, it is certainly a good thing - I thank Senator Saviane, the first signatory to Amendment 15.1 - to extend the time limits so that the municipalities can make capital investments. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the League, particularly, as I said, Senator Saviane, for their attention to the small communities, the local authorities, the municipalities that are the heart of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u13	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of work has been central in this parliamentary term and will also be central in the months to come. This is because what citizens are asking for are answers and solutions. In this sense, today we face only a niche of the Italian working fabric, a niche never considered. But first of all, I want to stimulate reflection. Let's talk about the future, let's talk about a vision of the country for the next few years, if not decades. Today I want to play a game that probably all of us, when we were kids, have done at least once: that of the "if I were..." Do You Remember? If you were an animal, if you were a color, if you were an object. It's not trivial, it's not. Psychologists tell us that children with their answers project what they really are or think they are. If, then, we apply the same concept to the world of work, what would come of it? Well, if it were an animal, I'd say it's associated with an elephant: it's big, strong; one of the smartest animals, but pachydermic and very slow to move. If it were a color, I could say it's gray: not because it's a bad color, but because it's something that's halfway through, it's not white or even black. If we were to compare it to an object, I don't know, I can think of the typewriter, certainly authoritative, prestigious, capable of presenting an ordered text, but not as fast as a computer could be. I mean, I'm playing, but not a lot, because when we talk about work, what do we think about? The rights often denied, the protest pickets, the trade unions, the unemployed and the Social Security Fund. If our image is really this, it means that, beyond the many words spent in these years, there is still much to be done. They told us that the gig economy has arrived: it is an unstoppable reality, it is the future. What is this gig economy? If, in fact, we do not understand deeply the transformations that are affecting society, we cannot even guide or govern them. We must bear in mind that in recent years we have witnessed the crisis of so many national jobs and contracts, which in many cases cannot be applied to new ideas and ideas of work. This fast and changing change of work is difficult to synthesize; it travels at the same pace as new technologies, professions that arise from the idea of start-ups and platforms that sprout like mushrooms. This is why the legislator's approach to new forms of work also needs to be changed. If jobs change, however, they must not change the rights of people and workers, rights that must also be preserved in this decade of transition. It is not possible to think of workers without rights that can be exploited as numbers, to be called to necessity and to be thrown when they no longer need it, without recognizing their minimum protections. We strongly believe that young people, who are employed thanks to the opportunities provided by the gig economy, must also have certain guarantees belonging to all workers, whether employed or not. For this reason, the text of the law under discussion today has examined the demands of all to arrive at a synthesis that makes a step forward to the Italian riders. One step at a time, the Movimento 5 Stars is facing all those normative holes in which they find themselves despite many Italian workers. Today we make clear about riders, but this is only the first step to tackle many issues related to the gig economy and sharing economy. To date, Italy is one of the worst places to work as a rider. That's a fact. In some countries bellhops have been recognized as employees, in others they are autonomous and payrolls are higher. From us everything is entrusted to the individual platforms that intermediate the deliveries. Among other things, we must also debunk the myth that riders do so by considering it a work or temporary occupation. Most of these workers have this as the only and only job that engages them all day long. Finally, those people will have a subordinate relationship with their employers, insurance protections and minimum wages to respect. They're not gonna be B-series workers anymore. I have concentrated in these first few minutes on the first articles of the measure in question because - as I mentioned at the beginning - the pressing request of the Italians is to have a decent job. But I could quote other fundamental articles included in the text: we finally manage to launch an end of waste standard that will make Italy look like a modern country, in which waste is not only waste, but also become resource, second raw material. Dozens of companies that work recycling waste and creating a new usable material will now be able to work without the sword of Damocles of the bureaucracy that so far relied on their innovative activity. With a similar sword of Damocles hanging on their heads they lived together for decades the inhabitants of Taranto. The measure at issue initially called for an article to protect Ilva administrators from any criminal penalty. Such an approach has fortunately gone down. Like Movimento 5 Stars, we cannot think of continuing, nowadays, activities that involve the simultaneous poisoning of an entire population. The National Epidemiological Study of the territories and settlements exposed to pollution risk by the Ministry of Health, carried out since 2006, showed that mortality in Taranto is in excess of regional and national data. It has been pointed out that in the resident population the mortality of lung cancer and, in particular, acute respiratory diseases among men and chronic diseases among women is excessive. So tell me, what's the point of working if your son gets cancer? It is the duty of the State to safeguard the employment issue but, even more so, it is the duty of those who make the laws think about the health and well-being of those same citizens. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that tourism and, above all, the travel of young people and young people will have a new sap from a small and fundamental amendment. As legislators we have the duty to recognize to the Italian Association hotels for youth the goodness of the activity carried out since the post-war in the management of the hostels located throughout the country. Its meritorious activity has already been recognized over the decades through recognitions as a moral and welfare body and with the granting of direct funding by the Ministries. Now, at last, we make official what has already been substantially clear but not formalized for bureaucratic twisting. AIG is a public body and young people, Italian and foreign, can continue to stay in its hostels. After an intense year in which I personally spent my time on this cause, I would like to thank the Government for having accepted such an instance, signed by all the majority and opposition groups. This proves that, when a cause is right, divisions are cancelled. I know that this will no longer be the case in many cases in the future, but as a citizen I am proud when politics works together to solve small and large problems. This is why we are preparing to face a law of demanding stability. There are those who perennially stay in the election campaign because it is more convenient, easier and at no cost. We learned that. We now have more awareness, we know our responsibilities from which we do not back down. There are many expectations. We keep the bar straight and work with a low head following the compass that has always guided us: the voice of the Italians. The results will come and, at that point, those who live on slogans will have to change strategy because, from saying to doing, we will have crossed the sea! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u14	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u15	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite easy to imagine that, in a draft law dealing with the protection of work and the resolution of business crises, the weakest part is represented by people who, in some way, are handicapped. In the draft law that we are dealing with these subjects are taken into account in Article 8. Law No. 68 of 1999 - all of us remember - on the rules for the right to work of disabled people, with subsequent amendments and additions, stated bluntly that the same aims to promote the integration and integration of disabled people into the world of work through targeted support and placement services. We recall that in that case the reference to disabled people was addressed to very precise categories; it had a restrictive character and imposed obligations on companies that could easily be eluded, so much so that, when legislative decree n. 185 of 2016, amending paragraph 4 of article 15 of the previous law, tightens the sanctions for the non-fulfilment of the obligation of hiring disabled people, refers to the fact that the fine to be paid was, all in all, easier for companies than to take charge of a targeted professional integration of people with disabilities. Later, we developed a much broader and deeper concept. The work that refers to people with disabilities is a right and not a sign - as it were - of benevolence on the part of the system towards the most disadvantaged groups. We are trying to defend and protect a right that belongs to them on the basis of Article 3 of our Constitution, which not only does not tolerate discrimination of any kind, but also requires the Government to remove the obstacles. Having said that, it surprises how Article 8 of the current bill - the one referring to the creation of a fund for disabled people - transforms what in the first decree-law was in some way a sign of attention to a category; what in the second decree-law was a sanction - so to speak - tightened compared to companies that did not take charge of those people. And in the current bill in essence it is said to create, through a fundraising operation, a fund with which to pay people with disabilities who will be hired. For those who know the complexity of the world of families in which people with disabilities live and the social sensitivity that, at times, is built around associations that refer to their needs, it is like saying that they put in the condition to build the fund to pay salaries to those people, going back many years to that vision of charity - whose value does not fail - that moves the theme from the law recognized also by the UN document, which we all knew and wanted to appreciate in the famous Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And I am referring not only to its initial version of 1948, but also to that of 13 December 2006, which speaks precisely of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We moved the theme. Article 8 has the grave fault of deleting an acquisition of conscience and competence that looked to disabled people and their relationship with work as a right. The fact is that a fund is subordinated to general benevolence. The law speaks, even, of solidarity and puts in charge to the private, in the form of solidarity, what the State, in the first person, is not able to do. This is a return of decades. We are totally accustomed to the great birth of associations, however almost all of a Catholic type and, moreover, many linked to religious families of very ancient origin, especially located in large houses at the beginning of the 900. This, however, which is a gesture of benevolence, does not replace a duty of the State before a right of the person with disabilities. The fund in question, which refers to solidarity - let me say this - can have that desire similar to those of those who claim to pay the new maneuver, which we are going to meet with the budget law, through recovery from the evaders. And Europe itself, in a letter, tells us that the one with which you want to face all the costs of general taxation these days does not seem to be a definite entry. In this case, linking the right to work of people with disabilities to this alleged solidarity, which is fine but belongs to the liberality of people and which I cannot budget, really represents a great humiliation. Without removing anything from the principle of charity, which represents - however - one of the cornerstones also in the bioethics vision, this, however, empties the concept of law and refers it to a solidarity society, which felt humiliated and defrauded of rights that belonged to it. On this point - in my opinion - the government will have to make a serious reflection because the whole world of disability is deeply wounded, humiliated and sorry and - let me say - even on the foot of war. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Romeo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u17	Mr President, I am very pleased with the measure that we are going to vote for the conversion of the decree-law which protects work and resolves business crises. I am happy for what it contains, for what is not foreseen and for the principles it affirms; principles that put a stop to the blackmailing of piecework and contemporaneate the protections of work and those of the environment and human health. In particular, as far as the blackmail of piecework is concerned, the norm reminds me of a film from 1971, still very current, titled "The working class goes to heaven" in which a great Gian Maria Volontè plays a worker well seen by his employers because he is well placed to work with piecework; and this because, with the rhythms that he manages to impress on his production, he manages to maintain his two families. And all this goes on until, in order to maintain the angry rhythm of production, which both he and the employers like, he loses two fingers for an imprudence, as he tries to disintegrate the machinery to which he is used. From that moment he realized the blackmail and alienation to which he had been subjected in the assembly line and, therefore, the injustice perpetrated against him. I say that this film is current because the incentive mechanisms underlying the piecework institute are the same that we find in new works and in new technologies that control the timing of production. In particular, with regard to the new type of work of riders or, however, of all those who work through computer platforms, we see that the mechanism is the same. In order to be able to make more deliveries, and therefore to have more payments, it has been encouraged to do things careless, so we are seeing more and more accidents in the performance of the new jobs. With the standard under consideration, let's put a brake on this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And we do this by predicting that the mechanisms for the composition of hourly pay must be based not only on production and timing, but also on a minimum fixed time, in order to ensure that everyone has, in fact, a minimum gain and, therefore, not to be strongly encouraged to take risks. In addition to this, the decree-law takes another step forward by contemplating the protection of employment with that of the environment and health. I am referring in particular to the establishment of the Energy Transition Fund, to finance decarbonisation. This fund includes up to 250 million a year for next year and the following year, plus 20 million annually until 2024 for the Fund for the conversion of jobs in the territories where coal-fired power stations are located. We want these power stations to be converted, but we do not want jobs to be lost. This brings me right to what is not contained in the bill of conversion under consideration, but it makes me happy and proud of the Group to which I belong, because it imposed the deletion of Article 14 of the decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Consequently, in the conversion measure we will not have criminal and administrative immunity for the former Ilva of Taranto. As a Group we have understood the reasons why we have been asked to maintain this immunity - I remember that it lasts since 2012, from the first seizure of the plant - linked to occupational protection and also to the very strategicity of steel production in Italy. But we must respond to these needs by means of an ad hoc measure which we are sure the Government will be able to develop. We have, however, facts that weigh like boulders: we know that in Taranto we die; we know that in Taranto children get sick much more than in other parts of Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; We know that, when the wind rises, the clouds of dust make birds fall from the sky; we know that no multinational must come to Italy with the license to kill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars, and in particular the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Senate, said no in a very compact and firm manner and I am proud to belong to that Group and happy to announce to everyone that, thanks to us in the Senate, the immunity of criminal and administrative immunity will be removed from the decree-law that we are about to convert. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u18	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the conversion into law of this decree-law, we obtained a very important rule for the stabilization of the precarious ANPAL Servizi, both for those who have a term contract (even for those who have already expired) and for those who have served in collaboration during these years. In this way, at last, an unjust Italian paradox is being stopped, for which precarious ones help other precarious and unemployed unemployed people. Giving security and serenity to workers and workers of ANPAL Servizi, an in-house company of the Ministry of Labour, is a major political and symbolic victory. And it is primarily for those who have the task, today, to direct the Ministry of Labour, Minister Nunzia Catalfo. These people, to whom we are restoring dignity, are endowed with great professionalism and competence, unique and rare in the Italian panorama. For us it is necessary to give strength to active labour policies, in a world in which we witness technological revolutions, the need for investment in the green economy, a difficult rethinking of a relationship that I would call almost anthropological between people and machine. All this must lead us to see work as training, skills, updating, guidance, relocation after employment crises. The first thing to do when the situation changes around us is to learn how to find the right way and the precarious, professionals and professionals of ANPAL Servizi, know how to do it: they support employment centres; they help unemployed young people and workers who have to be relocated following company crises; they run school-work alternation programs and for disadvantaged people. Colleagues and colleagues, this decree-law contains, in the second part, many measures to support territorial crises, from Sardinia to Sicily, and sectors in employment crisis. During the examination of the bill of conversion into law of the decree was also increased the financial envelope of the extraordinary integration fund. It is really right: we cannot leave workers and workers alone in relation to job losses. But public policy must revolutionise the approach to work and help the workforce more with active and less passive policies, activating horizontal processes of guidance and retraining. We should also protect new sectors, unknown jobs until recently. This provision contains rules on riders. We would have written differently the norm. The main way to intervene on the protection of riders would have been to strengthen Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, the so-called jobs act, in which some derogations are established for those situations at the limit between employment and self-employment; derogations entrusted to collective agreements. The way to the agreement between the parties is the one that is following - for example - French legislation and it is working. As legislators, we must take care to guarantee indispensable rights and safeguards, rather than the qualification of the employment relationship, such as health and safety; INAIL insurance; third-party insurance; social security; privacy; trade union rights; compulsory training; certification of skills and hourly compensation. The law must be slim and then allow specific safeguards to be declined to the bargaining. But the mandatory rights must be indicated by law, in order to prevent collective agreements from introducing too few safeguards. Not having taken this route has produced rules, especially in the second part, the one that concerns the exquisitely autonomous riders, which will generate not a small amount of interpretative confusion and complicated access. But that's it. The whole measure is affected by the change in the majority and, ladies and gentlemen, despite the differences between us, we have often found difficult mediations, but we have found them. The measure also contains other important measures, such as safeguarding the employment level of the Italian Association of Youth Hotels, examples of community and cohesion of our country; the cessation of the qualification of refusal; the birth of working cooperatives in companies in crisis, as the rapporteur has well mentioned. In short, finally - and I conclude - when we really bring the demands of workers, workers and productive worlds into these classrooms, we must not think of ultimatums. The dialectic, even among political forces, is a democratic enrichment. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u21	Mr President, you are about to approve the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, probably with a vote of confidence. This is the first vote of confidence on the first serious measure to be examined by this Assembly since the birth of the new Government, the Count II Government. If you need a vote of confidence on a decree-law made by you in such a short time, this says a lot about the state of the majority and the government, a few days after the exultation for the birth of an Executive that should not only be parliamentary, but that - according to the statements of the political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars - should even direct Italian politics for the next ten years. In the decree-law in question there is everything that should not be done. In fact, the measure was approved except on August 6 by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal of Prime Minister Count and then two-minister Di Maio; and I say two-minister because he was Minister of economic development and at the same time of labour and social policies and, therefore, had a dual competence to elaborate this extraordinary decree-law, approved - I repeat - except on August 6 by the first Count Government. Then the rescue agreement continued and the text was finally approved in early September, but it was basically the one that was approved unless otherwise agreed. Later he was brought to the Assembly after weeks of political blackmail within the 5 Stars, because one of them would not want to vote a decree-law drawn up by their political leader when he was Minister of Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy; in the meantime, in fact, the geography of the MoVimento had changed and those who were no longer in the government have maneuvered to blackmail him so that a fundamental norm was abolished. Everything happened within the 5 Stars in the drafting of the decree-law, which was profoundly modified by a confrontation, confrontation and blackmail within the Movimento; at the same time the Government has changed, but the 5 Stars are still the majority and relative party in Parliament and obviously not in the country, where it is in the process of disappearing. The decree-law has several souls: that of the work, which my colleagues will deal with, and that of the alleged resolution of corporate crises. And I'm talking about alleged corporate crisis resolution because when it was announced, during the first Count Government by the two-minister Di Maio, there was talk of an extraordinary measure that would deal radically with the issue of crisis tables. I confess that Mr Patuanelli seems to me much more serious than Mr Di Maio, because the other day in this House he finally said what was denied before, namely the numbers. According to the Minister, we have reached 158 crisis tables that accumulate more and more day by day and we are at 300,000 direct employees at risk, many more considering indirect ones. The measure under discussion, approved except on August 6th and then again by the new Government, should have intervened on two fundamental issues that concern two important companies in the country, on which there is a strong debate and discussion on the social and trade union level. The first question, the one that has been announced, concerns Ilva. The rule was written by Di Maio and I do not understand why today the Movimento abolished it. What has happened in the last few months within the Movimento for which a standard approved on proposal by the biministro Di Maio of economic development and labour and social policies is then abolished? Moreover, today in the newspapers we read that this has happened blindly, i.e. without any intercourse with the new ownership of the company to which that criminal shield had been promised. And I remember that it is not a small company - once it was said that it was the first steel company in Europe - that operates in a small sector: it operates in a strategic sector, because all the Italian metal industry is based on Italian steel production and, if this situation was broken, it would make one of the main production sectors of the country less competitive, with an extraordinarily negative impact on Italian companies and employment fabric. You delete that rule in the dark, without any intercourse, after you yourself have introduced it. It is a legislative madness that only creates confusion: changing the rules continuously in the same Government, with the same political subject repeatedly, create confusion in the country and of course discourage any kind of investment. You don't know what's gonna happen here a few weeks away, paradoxically with the same men of government. There had been an election, we had a new government with another program, I would understand it; but here the same people get confused, turn around and return to the starting box, as in the game of the goose. And that's about Ilva. But even more serious, if you will excuse me, is the silence in this House, on a decree-law of this kind, on the drama of the workers of Whirlpool. Is there or is there not that rule that was announced as salvific (for Whirlpool) by Minister Di Maio himself when he approved the provision? Is there or is it not in this provision? And that rule saved Whirlpool, as announced and trumpeted in the international press? Or was it proclaimed a general strike by the unions on 31 October, that is, in a few days, that will paralyze the whole Campania region? Whirlpool - I remember - is a strategic industry of Campania and you have abandoned it to the predatory activity of a multinational. It is the example of this decree-law: we approve a decree that was to save Whirlpool, when it is known that Whirlpool closes and there will be a general strike by the unions against your defaults. Do you realize how you're legalizing? You only do this with propaganda ads (Twitter, Facebook), never confirmed by reality, that you often change yourself, because you regret what you have proposed and approved. But Whirlpool is something more: it is the example of the new Government Count, who brings together the precise responsibilities of the governments of the previous left, who agreed to the sale of the Merloni group (Italian strategic company in the field of appliances, leader in most of Europe) to a multinational (Whirlpool) that was his competitive company, and not only in Europe. And everyone knows that this happens very often only to eliminate a competitor, as it is happening for the plants of Whirlpool in Italy, that only - already understood then - of the duplications of the plants of Whirlpool in other parts of Europe and the world; of the duplications of an aggressive competitor, very qualified in some markets, that had to be eliminated. Therefore, the governments of the left have agreed, giving important public resources, so that the Merloni group would be sold to the Whirpool group, well knowing that then this would shut down the plants in Italy. Today the Government of Movimento 5 Stars and PD sum up the two nefariousnesses: the first is of those who, in the absence of a serious industrial policy, limit themselves to postponing the problem, often selling to multinational companies whose second purpose was clear already then; the second is that of the 5 Star Government, which from the beginning of the legislature with the two-minister Di Maio (Minister of Labour and Minister of Economic Development) has announced several times that he has saved Whirlpool and has inserted new resources in the decree-law today under discussion. It's a paradox. It is a dramatic farce that Parliament will be able to approve a measure within which there are new resources for Whirlpool, when the company has already announced so long that they are insufficient to maintain the production site, and has planned a closure moved over time, with a fictitious sale to a Swiss company, while the workers are on general strike in Campania. The general strike is yes on the Whirlpool case, but the general strike is against your industrial policy that does not exist, made only of announcements that you often deny, even with measures such as that on Ilva, that cancel and of which you are ashamed. At this rate, you will take the country to the abyss. Do you realize or do you not realize - I say it above all to the most discerning left - what is happening in this fatal embrace with the Movimento 5 Stars? [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u22	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education - Eugenio Montale-Nuovo IPC - Genoa, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u23	Mr President, I will speak on Article 13 and on Article 14, which has been deleted, because something has to be said, which is also called for by the rapporteur. Let us start with Article 13, in which the rapporteur referred to interventions for decarbonisation and energy transition, as well as the safeguarding of employment levels in certain areas subject to employment crises for the conversion of electricity generation plants. Reading the text, however, says something else, as there is no mention of decarbonisation or transition to a low-carbon economy. On the contrary, Article 13 specifically contains two rules, the first of which concerns the allocation of part of the auction revenues for CO2 allowances to resolve any problems of employment shortage which might arise in the case of closure of electricity generation plants by coal. The text (specifically in the heading) lists which coal-fired power plants will be disposed of and for which an employment crisis could arise. I had already pointed out in the Commission that, before making these lists, it would be necessary to find out whether or not the right things are being put in. In this particular case, obviously not. For each plant I looked at a card, available in part on the ENEL website and in part on the operator's website and owner of the plant. The Brescia plant, owned by the A2A, is mentioned as a possible site to be abandoned. I have news for those who wrote the norm: the A2A plant will not be abandoned because, together with the waste incineration plant in Brescia, it is the heart of the district heating plant that serves the city. To stop the plant means to stop the district heating system. Therefore, this power station will not be shut down. As for the Monfalcone power station, also owned by the A2A, has already been stopped and is in disposal. A regional protocol has also been made which will safeguard the possible problem of redundancies. Therefore, even this power station should not be listed. There is another interesting one: the central "Andrea Palladio" of Porto Marghera (Enel), which had already been included in the list of power stations that Enel wanted to quit. In 2014 representatives of Enel came to audition in the Senate to say what would quit. Some of you were present and obviously you don't remember, but we know that since 2014. For this plant, Enel has already completed its work completely and a solution has already been found without loss of employment. So let's not put into the list of power stations that could cause problems those that can't do it. The list includes, however, two power stations that are nodal: the Torrevaldaliga Nord power station, which is one of the two power stations that insists on Civitavecchia, and that of Brindisi Sud (or Cerano di Brindisi), which together have so much generative capacity (one produces 1,980 and the other 2,640 megawatts). Enel has already said that it is authorized to operate until 2033-2036 and, therefore, has no intention of releasing such power stations. However, what is inherent here, combined with the famous decree on capacity market, consists in facilitating the transition to methane of such plants, paid precisely with the money of the capacity market. After saying that moving from a fossil source to another fossil source is not decarbonisation and that this non-decarbonisation we pay it with the A3 component of the bill, it is obvious that the thing is not beautiful because it is not energy transition. Someone has reminded us - as if there were need - that we no longer have time and, therefore, we cannot afford to pass from a fossil source to another fossil source, as we must make the final jump directly. Another important thing to remember is the measures of CO2 auctions. I am not open-mindedly opposed to a tax of disadvantage to polluting products and activities, but the proceeds of such taxation should not go to the state budget to cover current expenditure. Well, most of the proceeds from CO2 auctions are to amortize government debt securities. Of this part exceeding the billion, a small part is destined to those who are called decarbonization interventions, but they are not: instead, they are interventions that want to prevent carbon leakage, that is, the fact that a company that emits so much CO2 goes to emit it somewhere else and, therefore, they give incentives so that this does not happen. This is also a very serious mistake. I had therefore proposed - in amendments that will not be discussed because trust will be placed - that, if we really want to do something sensible, the whole source of auctions should be devoted to interventions of real decarbonisation, but not to those mentioned in the 2013 decree, but only to those specific points that allow the removal of CO2 from the atmosphere. In particular, there was a point that promoted reforestation programs in developing countries where there was a destruction of the primary forests, which would also be a good example of "let's help them at home," since with this "let's help them at home" the mouth is filled. As far as Ilva is concerned, I would just like to point out that, when ArcelorMittal won the race practically as the only participant, and therefore he paid the rent for the plant in Ilva for the part not in extraordinary administration, he put as a condition that immunity should remain for all the actions put in place for the realization of the environmental plan; Otherwise, she would've left. Now we - if there is no next trick - do the same thing with a year and a half late. Therefore, we do not come to fill our mouths by saying that we protect the health of Taranto citizens, because this could be done a year and a half ago. We have left that plant to vegetate for a year and a half; we have also lost money to the property; we have made the most total disaster and now we come to say that we want to protect health. At least let's save this. Finally, I would not like this actually to be a way out for ArcelorMittal, who perhaps realized - if he had not already understood it before - that the plant is not profitable, because there is no way to make it work at full speed since he was stopped blast furnace number 2, having been kidnapped without the power of use. He has already asked for the possibility of using it and, while waiting for this to be established, production has dropped so much that the plant has ended up losing more than a million per day. I applaud the deletion of Article 14, but I wouldn't want it to be just an escapism to redo my face and cope with something that was already a written event, namely that ArcelorMittal would leave and leave the production site. Then, if we want, we can also quantify how much money between bridge loans and emoluments towards extraordinary management was spent to keep a bubbon standing for a year and a half. But this will possibly be a debate for another decree-law, which I am sure will come, regarding the management of the complex crisis area of the tarantino. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am speaking on a subject which is very dear to me and which is part of this measure, namely the issue of business crisis tables, the management of business crises and business disputes. It is particularly dear to me both because I have followed him extensively during my first parliamentary term and because I continue to do so in this current. In fact, it is an important topic for all of us and for all of the national territory. Very often we have been confronted also with other parliamentarians and representatives and we have seen that the problems related to the resolution of corporate crises, but above all characters that revolved in the past around the crisis tables, were common to many other events of our national landscape and, indeed, they shared citizens, workers and businesses in unfortunately common destinies. I come from Umbria, a region that has been affected by some of these tables, some of which are really very important that I want to mention so that the House can remember them. The most important was what saw the workers of the Terni steel works, starting in 2014, crashing into a very complex business crisis, discussed many times at the Ministry of Economic Development and which, on some occasions, also saw my participation. A crisis in a particular company has profoundly marked my entire stay in this House and a large part of my political activity and, not even to do so on purpose, yesterday we were on an institutional visit to it, or at least to what remains of it. Yesterday we visited a factory recovered from a cooperative of workers, what some call a workers buyout. It is in a bakery factory, which produces bread, in Umbria. The story is linked to the fate of the former Novelli company, which in 2016 was sold to a Calabrian company for one euro in a business crisis table at the Ministry of Economic Development. I want to remind you that because around that table and all of its history is my legislative activity in this area. I can therefore list some of the acts that I have presented, in addition to the public and press releases, as a Member of Parliament and also as a citizen. I began by presenting numerous parliamentary questions and then moving on to the draft laws, to try to manage the crisis tables more carefully. And in the end I also came to make procurator exhibits, and not only to know how the resolution of the corporate crisis was managed, but also to understand the management of crisis tables within the Ministry of Economic Development. It is no secret that also the Finance Guard, thanks to our exhibits, has addressed the Ministry of Economic Development to ask for documentation on certain disputes. I wanted to remember all this because the Unit for the management of the disputes of companies in crisis, the famous UGV, established at the MISE, has a troubled history: the former minister of economic development, Guidi, suddenly prevented the participation of parliamentarians in those tables. Colleagues, try to imagine the embarrassment of a representative of the territory, even more so of a senator elected on a territorial basis, who cannot participate in the corporate crises of his territory. This is indeed a mockery: in this way we are completely crippled in our political activity. But then something happened when the Ministry of Economic Development - fortunately, I say - entered, at the time, Minister Luigi Di Maio: in the first eight hours of his mandate as Minister of Economic Development he has put into effect - it happens - precisely the text of the bill at my signature, which allows parliamentarians to participate in the crisis tables and reinstates the possibility of being able to manage disputes, in extremely democratic ways, providing such a possibility to members of both the majority and the opposition having territorial representation. The time available to me is really too little to be able to tell such activity, its modalities and the characters that revolved around those tables and that - from what I learn - still try to do so today. On the occasion of this measure, I tried to propose amendments in order to have greater transparency, greater democracy and - why not? - greater legality, given what has happened in the past - fortunately before our arrival - of extremely obscure. I believe it is essential that, during the discussion of corporate crises, parliamentary committees are also involved in order to be able to express their views on the possibilities of development and resolution of the crises themselves. Very often, in fact, in the wake of a company crisis, there is not only the purely industrial or economic aspect. And I am referring above all to the story, which I mentioned before, of the Novelli company, then Alimentitaliani - and we will see what it will be, having been generated chain failures, just to make you understand the effectiveness at the time of the crisis tables - that concerns not only the Ministry of Economic Development. I have also asked for the intervention - for example - of the Ministry of Justice because, if faced with a company crisis, it is discovered that the relevant papers are found in four courts and three prosecutors, scattered over national territory. We realize that this is no longer a corporate crisis, but a judicial crisis. I therefore believe that the interest in resolving these crises sometimes goes far beyond the legitimate competence of the Ministry of Economic Development, which should also be supported through other instruments. There is a need for greater participation by Members of Parliament in the work of the tables under management, because they represent a link with the territory, arriving at requests from citizens, workers and entrepreneurs themselves who ask us to take them to the parliamentary classrooms. It is therefore important for Members themselves to be able to participate not only in the tables convened monthly, or when necessary at the Ministry of Economic Development, but also in the management of business crises. It is essential that the work of the crisis tables (especially the meetings held from time to time) is quite transparent and communicated to the outside world. I say this because at this moment we have only one instrument with which the publicity of the work is given, which is the minutes of the meeting; a report built to some extent among the actors present at the table and which, therefore, responds to a merely communicative requirement. On the other hand, a proper publicity of the meeting would be essential to leave a trace of what is actually being said at the table. Finally, I recall a fundamental issue, the conflict of interest. It is important and imperative that those who have worked at the Corporate Crisis Management Unit do not then come into contact at work with the companies with which they have been working in crisis management. Let me give you an example. We have noted that we are improving the crisis unit also in terms of personnel; if a Head of the Unit who has managed the trade union disputes of certain companies, then become consultant to those same companies, to which he has asked to proceed with the bankruptcy agreement and for which he has appointed the founders, it would be really inconvenient. You are all wondering - I understand from your interested eyes - if this really happens. It is happening and, thanks to the measure at our examination, I hope it will not happen anymore: for the next five years the staff who will participate, as representative of the Government and the Ministry, in the tables of crisis management will not be able to maintain relations with the enterprises with which he has come in contact. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u26	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, the Poet sang: Ahi serve Italy, of hostel pain, ship without knuckle in great storm. It could have been better. I can say that by now the "yes could do better" has become a litany, which seems repetitive and addictive, if it is not that it is not a litany, but a cry of alarm, a cry of concern that from these benches - they are still those of popular representation - we will not stop to launch. We will never be complicit in a wrong Government and a political system whose leitmotiv has been the downside compromise for too long to govern, and Italy and Italians are the playing field. Governing a country is not a game, and it should not be done by forming coalitions that have irreconcilable visions - if one can speak of visions - and that therefore risk eventually producing arrogant and sterile measures, if not even when, even, harmful, deleterious measures for the support and development of the country. Gentlemen, this is business and business crisis. Here we are talking about companies that are at risk of closure and jobs that are at risk of jumping. And when a company goes into crisis, when a company closes, when an entrepreneur fails or sells its company to foreign investors, it does not enter into crisis only that company; it does not close, it does not fail, it is not only bought that company, but it enters crisis, it fails - starting from that territory and the community that composes it - the whole country. Much more could be done; much better could be done. For once, one could have tried to give something more to a measure, if not always and only the character of the urgency to buffer the emergency. Corporate crises must be resolved by giving the opportunity to work, and not only with social shock absorbers endlessly. Once again, there is a ghastly government, with a bunch of opposing, conflicting thoughts, with Ministers who will work in watertight compartments or who will undo the measures with each other. Meanwhile, the country is languishing. One could at least - with the advent of this new, even more patched, Government - try to stop acting by closing the holes, putting pieces; stop acting by looking at the tip of the shoes. Instead, it could begin to define a serious, constructive economic and social policy that revealed a minimal vision for the support and development of the country. We still think of Italy as a country without raw materials, forgetting, or worse, not considering that the raw material of Italy is Italy itself [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , with its landscape, with its cultural history, with the ingenuity of its artisans and entrepreneurs, with food and wine, even with its system of environmental protection through the circular economy, in which we are far ahead, despite this Government and the previous one. Well, in the face of the shortsightedness of those who claim to govern such a country, with the sound of taxes and the blocking of infrastructure - have you noticed that there is no more talk of infrastructure? - we have the duty, representing the voice of the other Italy that is not recognized in this Government and suffers, to shout loudly all our dissent. Here's what's missing: there's no vision. There is no strategic and structured economic and industrial policy. A serious and concrete infrastructure policy is missing. There is no competent, structured and decisive policy to support economic development. There is a lack of broad overall vision for the country. There is no serious policy of address. But above all there is a lack of real, real, concrete policies of intervention on the founding article on which our Constitution - the one concerning work - is based in order to realize that, on the one hand, training must be taken care of, and therefore school, university and research - mah! - and, on the other hand, it is necessary to create the conditions for employers to grow and hire. Just call the entrepreneurs "prenitors," stop it! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the other hand, when a government bases its work on the income of citizenship, it is understood that the country is destined to a devastating implosion, and this is the first consideration to be made: we must have the courage to eliminate the income of citizenship, which is an immoral measure for our young people, [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] that will annihilate them and suck up their energies, because at twenty years a job is always found, without the need of the income of citizenship. At the same time, we understand that the income of citizenship will serve more and more as a refuge for all those who will lose the job or who will never find it, because of the dissensionate policies of the Government that today, if possible, as I said before, is composed of a group that perhaps only on one thing is found in agreement, that is the assistantism end in itself, that will complete the action of degrowth of society. On the other hand, the guide is always the same: that Premier Count who, I or II, seems to have never acted personally to make a synthesis of the conflicting guidelines of the yellow-green government before and of the yellow-red-red government today. One invocation comes spontaneously to me, therefore, at this moment: poor Italy, strangled and mistreated, tramples and ridicules. Instead, we need two things, trust and reputation: the trust that we must bring back to those who have the function and responsibility to represent the citizens and the reputation of Italy that we have the duty to safeguard as a primary and indispensable asset for a country. In this measure there is no trace of concrete resolution on issues that today are the real economic, employment, environmental and reputational emergency. I think, for example, of a tragedy like xylella, which is kneeling an entire section, the olive grove, in which we were once the first in the world, while now we are running behind Spain and Tunisia. I am thinking of the case of the end of waste, which today will be flagged as a problem finally solved by this Government: not really; maybe it will solve a small piece of it and the already authorized plants can continue to work (we are talking about the issue of waste), but it is a small piece. Among other things, it is such a military measure, which will see the State control the local authority, that is, even the Regions, as if it were the only one able to represent the people and to protect the system of legality, while the Regions and the Provinces were ancillary entities: on the other hand, when we talk about a Jacobine system, we do not cite it at random. The end of waste is therefore not a matter of company crisis: waste, which today is considered to be the oil of the future, in Italy is even transferred abroad with costs that are not indifferent. There is someone, however, to whom we can certainly compliment, with bitterness in the heart, that is the titlers, the true masters of the ephemeral masterpiece of every measure: the unlocking of yards that does not unlock anything; the saving crisis that does not solve any crisis; the saving sea that I do not know what will save and a whole series of wonderful titles to effect. To conclude, let's make a standing ovation to the masterpiece of masterpieces: the question of trust, which - if it is placed, as we think - will be the only thread of this Government as well and the only absolute certainty in the magnum sea of uncertainties. You can put your trust in this House whenever you want, but be aware that even the smallest entrepreneur would not entrust this government with the keys to its smallest forklift. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, it is useless to deny that the decree-law we are about to convert has had a difficult path. It was in the midst of a hot political crisis, not just because it was held in August, and a troubled political majority passing, which sees the new majority starting now with this measure. The Democratic Party has approached the text to our examination with a sense of responsibility towards the country and the people involved, from the interventions it provides but also towards the new majority, in an attempt to find a common ground to solve the problems it does not contain. With my colleague Laus in the Commission we have tried to make our own the motto of Theodore Roosevelt: do what you can, where you are and with what you have. In this spirit we have tried to concentrate on two axes of work with respect to this decree-law: to solve small problems today and to give concrete answers to the workers and companies involved by the interventions envisaged by it today; to sow some traces of work and some tools to intervene forcefully in order to extend protection and opportunities in the labour market. In this decree-law - and I limit myself in my speech to retracing some of the points that have covered the Commission's work most closely - there are several first answers, but also various elements (a small toolbox) for a work law 4.0, which can do much more. I am referring to the rider rule, which we continue to define as such, even if it is not just about them, but it speaks to all workers and workers organized by digital platforms. I am also thinking of the standard on DIS-COLL and welfare protection for all workers, including self-employed workers, and the standard on ANPAL Services and the enhancement of skills and professionalism in labour policies. On the riders and on the digital platforms we finally have a rule that gives certainty to these workers. They are still very small numbers, but we are faced with a labour market that is changing before our eyes, with 700,000 workers involved in digital platforms and 150,000 who have this employment as their main source of income. The riders are only the small component of an area of the labour market that is widening and now the decree-law in question gives some certainty and certainty regarding the protections and discipline that must apply to this work. I believe that the real answers will come from long-term work, which we will have to do together, as Parliament and Government to identify, in a labour market that changes too quickly so that the legislator can write on the stone some decree or some law forever, the safeguards to be given to forms of work that change too quickly. In the long term we will have to make an effort to identify a hard core of rights that embraces the whole area of employed and self-employed work and that speaks of fair pay, of protection against accidents and illness for all workers, of social security protection, of extended welfare for subordinates and self-employed and of the right of union association, but also to privacy and disconnect. Pending this rewriting of a labour law that embraces and protects all forms of work, autonomous and subordinate, this decree-law does a very simple thing: it extends Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, the so-called jobs act, to clarify that all workers intermediated by digital platforms are recognized the protections of subordinate work. This is a simple and clear rule, which provides that, even where an algorithm or platform coordinates, controls and sanctions a work performance, the safeguards of subordinate labour apply, unless - here there is an investment of that norm and this decree-law extending it - collective bargaining does not intervene in its autonomy and responsibility to clarify that the sector of the digital economy (that of the riders, but also others affected by these changes) has specificities that require protections and protections sanctioned by collective bargaining. This standard therefore gives first answers, but it also starts a construction site, widening the task of collective bargaining in these sectors. I think that the best answers and the greatest protections will come in the coming months, when the social partners will, as I hope, meet the challenge of this decree-law and that rule of the job act which it extends. The second point concerns the DIS-COLL. It seems a small rule, but here we intervene on an income guarantee instrument for employees, for the self-employed, by broadening their generosity, because we reduce the contributory requirements for access. I hope that such a small signal in this decree, in favour of welfare also for employees and self-employed workers, will be a signal that this majority wants to give to the world of self-employment. A law of 2007, the jobs act of self-employment, extended the protections also to this world, but provided for delegations that have never been exercised. There is a construction site to be reopened, that of welfare for the self-employed (all, also VAT matches, not only employees). There is separate INPS management to be expanded, to make more maternity, sickness protection and income guarantee, which comes from that management for non-orderist VAT consignments. There is a path to be made with the professional coffers, in their autonomy, to strengthen the welfare of self-employment, also providing new guarantees for significant cases of declines in activity and loss of income for workers and new professionals, often left alone in the face of an increasingly dynamic market. It should also be remembered that the first social shock absorber is the fair compensation, the guarantee of fair pay, the principle that we introduced in the last legislature, for self-employment: now we must move on to the implementing decrees, but above all we must give sure rules, that prevent public administrations all from underpaying old and new professionals; there is no fair compensation, in fact, if the public employer is often the first to exploit the weakness of young workers in new professions. The third point, with which I conclude, concerns ANPAL Servizi. The standard that we have prepared, in agreement with the Minister Catalfo and with all the forces of the majority in the path in the Commission, gives certainty to the start of a path of stabilization of professionalism and competences in ANPAL Servizi. We too, perhaps, have talked too many times about the stabilization of precarious people, while we should talk rather about the enhancement of professionals, because this rule is within a vision of relaunching active labour and training policies. We cannot think of saying that, in the new labour market, no one will be left alone in the face of an increasingly difficult and dynamic market, because there will be labour policies that will take responsibility for the workers and guide them within it, if we do not invest or value the skills and professionalism that, even in difficult years and with few funds available, have tried not to leave the workers alone and invest in labour policies. In this rule it is stated that, former legislative decree no. 75 of 2017, the so-called Madia decree, all fixed-term works of ANPAL Servizi must be brought to a path of stabilization towards the indefinite time. It is also stated that, for collaborators who have often passed many selective procedures that recognized their professionalism and have alternated periods of fixed time and collaborations, there are special and unique procedures that guarantee their stabilisation. For us, this is only a first step towards a redesign of the active training policies that also rethinks the role of the State within guarantees that cannot vary from one regional border to another and that must, in this case too, have univocal answers so as not to leave anyone alone in the labour market. All work in the digital age and algorithm, welfare for new jobs, also for self-employed, active policies and training are the three ingredients that in this decree-law find small, very small answers, but they are fundamental, if we want to take up the challenge of a new labour law. There is much to do on these three fronts: let's convert this decree-law, but let's get to work immediately, from the next day. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us presents a structure that addresses a number of issues, all of fundamental importance: from the fund that guarantees the right to work of disabled people to the node of recruitment, from the resolution of corporate crises to the protection of workers. It is precisely workers who are protected by Article 6, which takes urgent measures in favour of those who are socially useful or engaged in activities of public benefit. The article postpones from 31 October to 31 December 2019 the time limit for possible extensions of agreements and fixed-term contracts of socially useful workers or engaged in public utility activities. I therefore intend to refer to the conventions stipulated annually by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the Regions Basilicata, Calabria, Campania and Puglia. This article, the sixth one, gave me the opportunity to speak with an amendment, accepting a requirement that has sharpened especially with the effects of quota 100 (a measure that still remains fundamental and has allowed us to dismantle the absurd Fornero reform). I am referring to the harmonization of the time-limits for the classification of public competitions: the amendment which I am referring to extends the old rankings for recruitment in the public administration, constituting an important response to the emptying of administrations, due to the acceleration of pensions, which is the result of a quota of 100. In particular, the amendment extends the validity of the rankings approved in 2016 until 30 September 2020, those approved in 2017 until 31 March 2021 and those approved in 2018 until 31 December 2021. It also provides for a three-year period for those approved from 19 January 2019 and regulates the possibility of sliding those approved from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2015, by 30 September 2020 at the latest. Finally, it provides for the possibility for the year 2011 to slide the rankings by 31 March 2020 at the latest, subject to compulsory attendance by the appropriate training and refresher courses organized by each administration and after passing a special examination-colloquium to verify the continuing suitability. I would stress that this measure does not entail any burden, as it is an intervention that harmonises the deadlines for the approved rankings, aligning them with those currently in force, and does not intervene in any way on the recruitment capacities of the individual administrations concerned. The reasoning behind this measure is simple. In recent years, with the easing of recruitment constraints, many bodies have drawn from the rankings of suitable non-winners to hire personnel on a fixed time basis, with the aim of facing the lack of staff, but a sword of Damocles hangs on the heads of many women and many men who just wait to cover the posts that are still empty in the staff of public administrations. We are talking about a large number of precarious or unemployed people who have already served in the public administration or have successfully passed the competition tests. In this way, for example, hundreds of our fellow citizens, after 30 September 2019, without this amendment could no longer have relied on a working future in the public administration; although they were prepared and had lived long years as precarious. We are talking about a sensitive issue, which has mobilized numerous committees and trade unions, and a subject that could not leave us insensitive. It is important to close old rankings and organize new competitions, but we must consider the current status quo: on the one hand, many public administrations are technically unable to carry out new competitions; on the other hand, the effects of quota 100 have generated many retirements even among public employees, however, offering wide possibilities of generational replacement. In this context, the possible completion of new competitions would entail additional months of waiting and expenses not always sustainable by a public administration. For the Movimento 5 Stars public administration is a fundamental resource in the management of the country, which must be valued and encouraged with the utmost constancy. With this operation we lend a hand to those who have waited far too long to get a deserved job, in spite of what someone has claimed; at the same time, however, we do not give up our big bet: to make room for all those young people whom public administration needs to modernize and digitize more and more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Italy has a serious problem with the maintenance and competitiveness of its industrial system is sadly well known to all. It is difficult to introject innovations and the digital revolution and to compete on markets that are now globalised. The blame for all this, of course, must also be attributed to the absence of successive governments in recent years and to the absence of anything resembling an industrial policy worthy of this name. This, of course, has an impact on employment. In recent months, the previous Government has greeted with enthusiasm and trumpets the Istat data, according to which, in fact, the number of employees had returned to pre-crisis levels; it has not been said, by the members of the previous Government, that in reality the hours worked had not returned to pre-crisis levels, because they were 550 million less (and there are not few). What is happening, then, is that work is being redistributed to a larger audience of workers, but it is always what it was before: little, of course. Unfortunately, this redistribution is a constant that unites the previous Government with the current one: it probably could not be different, since the President of the Council is the same, as is the main majority power that supports the Government. We do not seek to create opportunities for the development of the economy, in the belief - which belongs to our political side, but obviously not to yours - that it is development that creates jobs and induces entrepreneurs and industrialists to reinvest their profits and create opportunities for new jobs. It is believed that it is simply a matter of having to distribute what is there, moving the post - according to a paternalistic and dirigistic logic - from one part of society to the other. It is clear that in this way nothing lasting can be built nor is the interest of those who are looking for work today or who have precarious or underpaid it, that is, the majority of Italian workers. When the Minister Di Maio settled at the Ministry of Economic Development, as well as at the Ministry of Labour (because, as is well known, he assembled the two areas, evidently having a high opinion of himself), the industrial crises that lay at the first Dicastery were 144; in the past weeks when he left the previous assignment to go, with trumpet rings and felucas at the head, towards the Farnesina, had become 158: it is evident that no problem has been solved, but that indeed they have multiplied. I do not believe that the decree-law today at our examination can solve the situations, also because it is limited to the industrial crises of Sicily, Sardinia and Ivrea. It is all right, of course, to intervene on emergencies that have been left latent for too long (on Ilva, on Whirlpool, on Blutec or on the former latter), but, since Italy is made up of so many regions and industrial crises, as we have just said, are more than four or five, I felt obliged to submit an amendment, signed by many colleagues and friends of Forza Italia, to Article 10 of the decree-law. The amending proposal calls for the introduction of a revolving fund for industrial crisis areas, funded with 100 million and available to the Minister for Development. An agenda that we presented encouraged the Minister to take on this new perspective and to use this instrument (in my opinion it is essential to put in hand the many, too many industrial crises in place). This is not a whim, but to equip the government, and therefore the country, with an instrument capable of intervening promptly on an Italian structural problem, because the backwardness and crises of our industrial system unfortunately are. Having been elected in the Marches, I did so thinking of the crises of the Region that I represent, the area of crisis complex skins and footwear and that of industrial crisis Antonio Merloni, as well as the need to reconvert and requalify the area of the Valley of Tronto and Val Vibrata. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected for no reason, obviously consistent and consistent with the approach that characterizes this Government and which characterized the previous one. It is a matter of making a living, of living day after day, of not even trying to give oneself necessary and urgent tools to deal worthily, with a minimum of vision, effectiveness and efficiency, with the structural problems of the country. It is a short-sighted approach, renunciation and destined to turn off the enthusiasm that in these classrooms (but not in the country) accompanied the birth of the government in office. For me it is right that the voters of the Marches and the Italians as a whole should be informed of this choice, take note of such a radical and total lack of vision, perspective and innovative capacity of this Government and of the majority that support it and that on these bases they can rightly and consciously judge you [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u34	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by thanking President Girotto and the members of the two Committees responsible for the climate which took place during the examination of this measure: when these things happen, it is certainly a good time for politics. The topic in question is of fundamental importance for the territory and for the country, so it is right to address it with common sense by all political forces. I would like to focus on the business crisis side, which is of course particularly close to my heart, also because of the competence of the Commission to which I belong. The decree-law under consideration was long overdue, perhaps too long. In Italy, more than 150 crisis tables have now been opened and there are many areas affected by complex or special crisis areas, a worrying and urgent situation for which I believe that we could have dared more; indeed, I am sure that this should have been done, to speak with a clear and strong voice to those who have long been waiting for concrete answers. The decree-law finances the integration banks of Sardinia and Sicily, such as the crisis area of Isernia, and through Article 11 grants exemption to the additional contribution, an instrument that wants to give relief to some companies, large or particular, that perhaps start with a precise letter. Don't get me wrong, attention: this action, however, could certainly have extended also to small and very small enterprises, true fabric of our country, which unfortunately very often, even too often, are neglected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The structures of the Ministries are strengthened in order to prevent the productive decline: this is undoubtedly a positive fact, at least on paper, but it certainly cannot and must not be the only tool to counter the serious corporate crisis in which our country is pouring. The end of waste also deserves attention. After the strong, very critical issues emerged in the country following the decision of the Council of State, which foreshadowed to the Regions the assessment case by case and inflicted a setback to the end of waste and therefore to the circular economy; and after for more than a year - I emphasize - the colleagues of the 5 Stars have continuously opposed a refusal to accept the historic amendment signed by Senators Arrigoni and Briziarelli, who has always been greeted with favor by the whole business world, unanimously shared by the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces and presented many and many times during the past months; After all this, in short, the 5 Stars - repenting, in my opinion - share its goodness. Of course, we welcome this change of course, but we cannot fail to point out that the famous indecision of the same has produced many additional costs on families and businesses and that in the majority's amendment there is the introduction of an ex post control mechanism with double cocktail and worrying regime, which will be ineffective for the protection of the environment and which calls into question the work of the Regions, diminished in their role. On this very subject, the amendment by the League signed by Senators Arrigoni and Briziarelli was, in our opinion, the right answer to the problem of the end of waste. It is regrettable to note that the majority unfortunately missed a good opportunity to give the right answer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] About Ilva, then, in Rome they say: "But what is it really?" The news these days, with what happened yesterday in the Commission, cannot leave us indifferent: the reverse of the government is really resounding and leaves us speechless. This move is likely to represent a fatal blow to the company, which now has the alibi to leave. The Commission first said one thing and then made another: this is a change of course on the skin of thousands of families and workers, which is a cause for great concern for us. If from the point of view of the Movimento 5 Stars I have to admit a consistency on this topic, at the PD I really compliment their triple and quadruple carpy jump on the subject, which really envyed the Bagnotto, father and daughter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Now I have not quite understood whether they speak as a Democratic Party or as a Viva Italy, it is not very clear: in fact, however, the change of course was extraordinary and in the Commission, honestly, we noticed a bit of embarrassment. I close my speech on the complex crisis areas of the country. This measure, in my view, does not go far enough in terms of how to resolve situations. The deal I proposed and promoted with the support of the whole Commission (which I thank), was able to deal on a case-by-case basis with the various areas of complex crisis, trying to deal specifically with the different issues and to propose resolutions to the Commission, the result of a hearing and comparison process. In this respect, the Commission has unanimously fired two resolutions on the complex crisis areas of Savona and the Marche, Senator Cangini. I demand this and, at the same time, I would like to thank the Commission, which voted in favour of two agendas yesterday evening which commit the Government, in the next budget law, to increase the resources for these two areas. For this measure, of course, I can only be proud and thank you all. I just hope that this can be extended following all the crisis areas that we will evaluate during the deal assigned, also because this country and its economic fabric deserve our attention, without ideological positions preconceived, to put our companies and our workers out of the market and without future. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end this speech with a little regret, because a lot more and better could have been done. It would have been enough just more courage, which is obviously missing from everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Government has demonstrated all the approximation in having inserted rules on riders in a decree-law that it itself amended shortly afterwards, which therefore were neither necessary nor urgent. With the rules on riders, which the latter do not want, the links of subordination are extended. Just as recent reforms have led to an increasingly fragmented labour market, in which, while reducing hours worked (which amount to 550 million, as we have heard from Mr Cangini's previous intervention), the number of workers increases, the number of occasional benefits, intermittent contracts and, to a lesser extent, seasonal recruitment, in a context that will create a social security system and welfare increasingly difficult to sustain in the future. Compared to this system, the income of citizenship is creating additional iniquities in the face of occupational pensions and social shock absorbers which are often lower than the average allowance. In my speech I would like to focus above all on the rules that, acting on complex crisis areas, allow the activation of additional tools in favour of workers, with particular reference to the corporate crises affecting the area of Portovesme, in Sulcis, one of the poorest areas of Sardinia and, consequently, of Italy. I will therefore focus on Articles 9 (social shock absorbers) and 13 (transition towards decarbonised energy) of the measure under consideration. For this area of Sulcis the Government allocates new funds for 2019, after the previous ones (I refer to Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Extraordinary and Mobility). Funding is conditional on the simultaneous application of active policy measures aimed at re-employment of workers through the implementation of employment recovery plans. Many workers, although elderly, are still far from 100 or other forms of early retirement, but they cannot continue with social shock absorbers, which often consist of a cheque of about 500 euros per month, lower than that of citizenship income. In this context, therefore, further problems are intertwined. First of all, there is an economic framework in which it is not easy to relocate workers in a territorial context of a weak economy, which also affects other sectors, as well as industrial sectors. It would then certainly be more appropriate to consider the possibility of reactivation of production processes, enabling these factories to do what they were born for. In Portovesme, the two large factories of Alcoa and Euralumina are characterized by products - steel and aluminium - that distinguish them for the high energy absorption and the high environmental impact. Both are now in foreign hands and controlled by new shareholders, but they are willing to invest important figures in order to reactivate them. We must therefore overcome, with great determination and will, the limits placed above all by a guilty delay in politics, which often misinterprets European rules and objectives. The government's decision on decarbonisation would lead to the closure of the island's two coal-fired power stations. Doing so by 2025 would also weaken the agreement with Enel for the transfer of thermal energy through the vaporduct, a vital condition for restarting the aluminium plant, which - it should be remembered - has 1,400 employees. This passage needs to be clarified. We cannot, in the name of environmentalism and a green new deal outlined only in words, throw thousands of jobs to the wind. The two power stations, in addition to providing energy for businesses, are themselves, and therefore cannot be closed overnight. It would be more appropriate to gradually convert them to methane, then eventually switch to biomethane and, in the near future, also to hydrogen to produce clean energy. Moreover, the creation of the dorsal, indispensable infrastructure, and the connections connected to them would allow to bring methane not only to the power stations, but also to the cities and the whole island. The energy transition should therefore be pursued in a more reasoned way and above all in the interests of the island's economy. If Germany has also set itself the deadline for the transition to renewable energy, 2038 remains incomprehensible for Sardinia to anticipate it to 2025 and how it can do so. In Sardinia, the industrial sector contributes less than 10% to regional value added, compared to Italy's average of almost 20%. Moreover, the island's economy cannot be made only of tourism or agriculture (fact that it is leading us back to Objective 1, which is certainly not the aim that Sardinia intends to give itself). The decision to be taken with regard to the aluminium factory must come by November this year, otherwise the shareholder, who is willing to invest another EUR 167 million, will move his investments elsewhere. It is also a site and type of production where the amount of electricity required, now produced by the neighbouring coal-fired power plant, for primary aluminium production can be progressively reduced through research and new plants. The date of 2025 therefore cannot and must not be a dogma, if the drama suffered by the people of the island and its economy is greater than the environmental benefit. It should also be said that the need for thermal energy, required by the aluminium factory, could not, however, be covered by electricity possibly coming from a cable line connecting Sardinia to Campania and Sicily. However, such a link would be essential if Sardinia were to be included in the national energy programme, which should be seen as complementary to the gas backbone. It should be remembered that the production plants close to the industrial sites allow to balance the balance between energy produced and required, producing only what it needs, eliminating waste and polluting less. The energy issue must therefore be tackled with the right planning and must be one of the drivers of the island's economic and industrial recovery. The demands of the industry, the economy and the Sardinian citizens to have ever cleaner energy and at ever cheaper prices must therefore be met with the demand not to disperse the needs of the productive fabric. Aid to companies in crisis must be able to translate into real and concrete prospects of business and employment continuity. It is therefore necessary to create a framework of greater certainty and a competitive labour cost, which triggers the confidence of companies and, before them, entrepreneurs, so that they return to planning investments in the territories and it is not necessary to resort again to social shock absorbers. One idea could therefore be to operate a reduction in the tax wedge before anything else in these realities that it is necessary to restart. The resolution of the employment problem must therefore have a long-term perspective, otherwise the emergence of any new crisis risks the repetition of interventions that do not resolve, but postpone, while the workers, their families and the whole island need certainties. Mr President, I would invite you to speak with the members of the Government, especially with Prime Minister Conte, to review the deadlines for the decarbonisation of Sardinia. Otherwise, it would be a fatal blow to our businesses and the whole island. We are in favour of decarbonisation in the times and in the ways due, replacing the coal in the first phase with methane and then, as I said before, creating the infrastructure that can also support the use of hydrogen, in order to achieve clean energy. This is what we would like for our island in due time and manner. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u40	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, following a request made by the President of the Group, Senator Marcucci, to the Presidency of the Senate, we would need to convene a Group Assembly, partly because the work in the Commission last night ended at a very late hour, so there was still no chance of doing so. I have already told the other groups that we need to do so, so I would ask you, please, to suspend the work of this House from 12.30 a.m. to 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u41	Senator Ferrari, Senator Marcucci's request came to the Presidency and we are informed by the informal channels that the other groups have been informed. The Presidency intends to accept this request, so work will continue with the general discussion until 12.30 a.m. and then resume at 3 p.m. I announce to the Assembly that Senator Gasparri has been requested to be able to make an intervention to remind Senator Bonaiuti, who recently disappeared. The Presidency intends to authorise it to resume its work. Let us continue with the general discussion. She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u42	Mr President, I rise on one of the issues dealt with in this decree-law and, in particular, on an epochal legislative innovation, which it brings with it. I am referring to an amendment which bears, yes, my first signature, but which is the result of a choral work of the majority, serious and tight, on a very complex and delicate subject: I am talking about the end of waste, i.e. the cessation of the qualification of refusal. Personally I worked on it for over a year, during which there were many requests to make soon, but also the inaccuracies declared and written both on the subject, and especially on the fact that it was the Movimento 5 Stars that did not want to unblock the situation. It is good, then, for me to say how things stand today. The Movimento 5 Stars has always wanted to find the best solution, but it was to protect all those involved and not only in the interest of companies, who rightly want to invest in recycling and processing waste in second products or raw materials. Above all, however, we must protect the environment and the health of our citizens, because - alas - we are all aware that there are also companies operating in the field of waste and committing crimes in this area; and we, as legislators, must also foresee these cases. The amendment to my first signature, approved by the Joint Commissions, on the one hand facilitates companies, providing for a procedure for the granting of authorisations that are sufficiently slim, as provided for in Articles 208, 209 and 211 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006; on the other hand, it provides that they are issued in compliance with Article 6 of European Directive 98/2008/EC, but also with the specific criteria referred to in paragraph 3, in order to ensure homogeneity on the national territory. It is also essential to have a control and monitoring system entrusted to the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), which will be able to use the Regional Agencies for Environmental Protection (ARPA), not only for the verification of the correspondence of the authorisations to these requirements, but also for a check on the operational and management modalities of the plant, so that it achieves what is provided for in the authorisations, respecting the targets for incoming waste, recovery processes and substances or outgoing objects. We have also provided for a national database which collects all information on this type of authorisation, both new and re-examined or renewed. We have also planned, in order to speed up the ministerial decrees on a case-by-case basis, which usually require a very long investigation, a strengthening of the staff of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which specifically devotes itself to these decrees, with five new units, in a task force dedicated exclusively to the end of waste. You can see then that, thanks to a work of loyal confrontation between the various political forces that make up the majority, we managed to find the most balanced solution possible, demonstrating political maturity: no one within it asked the other to take a step forward or backward, but simply worked for the best solution (which - I must admit - was lacking instead with the previous majority, in which there was always a refusal to sit at a table and to discuss the subject). I asked my opposition colleagues in the Commission for a signal of responsibility, voting in favour of this amendment, but - alas - political opposition often prevails over common sense. To my colleagues who make up the majority, I say that if we work on environmental issues with the same loyal cooperation we have had on the subject of the end of waste, we can really demonstrate, as announced, that the environment is at the heart of our government programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Giovanni Falcone School of Poggiomarino, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u44	Mr President, there are many measures in the measure we are considering, so I shall confine myself to a few thoughts on what is most relevant to the tourism sector, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to riders and to ex-Ilva. The failure of Thomas Cook for the hotel tourism sector is comparable to that of Lehman Brothers for the banking system, with heavy repercussions even among Italian operators. In the Commission there has been widespread discussion about this, starting with the most immediate problems, namely tourists who have already paid through the agency for the overnight stay in Italian facilities, but who, because of the failure, have not cashed this advance and still have a contractual agreement with tourists. That failure is therefore about to be dumped on a sector which is already experiencing a difficult situation because of the unfair competition of the new forms of tourist accommodation. Added to this is the resumption of the tourist market of countries that, in the eyes of tourists, did not represent places totally safe because of the threats of international terrorism. It is beautiful and important that it is no longer so, but, from an economic point of view, this is a further variable compared to the future development of a sector on which today the failure of the oldest and most important tourist agency in the world rests. Tourism is an essential voice of various regional economies, which is why we have already expected from this measure an intervention in support of a sector that risks a significant loss of competitiveness in favour of countries such as Switzerland and Austria for the mountains or Croatia and Albania for the sea. An agenda was adopted in the Commission, which I too supported. The hope is therefore that the budget law will already enable us to intervene with instruments to support all those who have fallen into a situation of serious difficulty. The consequences of Thomas Cook's failure should not be taken under ambush, because the sector is in real danger of entering into a serious crisis. On the former Ilva I think that we must never forget where we started, i.e. from a plant that was kidnapped for environmental disaster and from continuous and sacred interventions by the State to prevent Taranto from adding to the environmental tragedy the social one. It was a long and difficult journey, with an important agreement, which was able to keep in jobs and environmental reclamation. It is therefore necessary to urge the company to keep true to the agreements, while changing the cards on the table is yet another negative message to foreign investors, i.e. that in Italy it is not appropriate to invest, because the right is always floating and uncertain. I therefore hope that all political forces will also look at this issue from this point of view: small political positioning battles cannot be consumed on Ilva. On the contrary, I find the rules on riders acceptable and positive. In this case, a virtuous synthesis of the different sensitivities has been achieved and progress has been made with respect to the previous regulatory plan. As Thomas Cook's story also reminds us, digital platforms, the places of disintermediation, are radically transforming the economy of services. Rules are therefore needed to avoid exploitation and to protect workers from forms of control, including at the personal level. These rules must become a positive precedent for all times that the legislator will face up to these unpublished lands of the world of work. The real challenge will be, each time, to grasp the emergence of these new areas, which are not always immediately intelligible and reputable in their size or duration. In this case, great help was the presence of organized subjectivity of the bellhops, who were able to build attention and sensitivity on the part of the public. However, this will not always happen. In any case, I believe that the approach must never be ideological, but, as has been done in this case, finding a fair balance between the protections and the margins of flexibility that must never be lacking, especially when it is really and concretely about forms of occasional work and income integration. As far as employment is concerned, it is very important for our territory to accept the amendment that I have tabled, which clarifies and expressly confirms the competence of the provincial employment control committee. I would like to thank the members of the Commission and the Government for this. Finally, but not least, I would like to focus on a subject which at this moment is extraordinarily felt by the entire system of small and medium-sized enterprises and on which protests have been made over the past few weeks by professional organizations. I am referring to Article 10 of the Decree-Law on Growth, which introduced the obligation - for companies operating in the fields of building redevelopment and energy efficiency - to apply discounts on works, to be recovered in the form of tax reductions in the twentieth years. I am very much in favour of giving the consumer an economic benefit in the form of a discount, that is, without seeing it spread over several years and in the form of tax deduction, as it was up to now. However, as the rule has been drawn up, the cost of this operation will fall on the shoulders of the companies, which - not in some isolated cases, but in most of them - do not have the liquidity to cope with it and still have living and personal costs that certainly cannot delay over time. Already in the discussion of the decree-growth law we had asked for the deletion of the norm, but there was not. Yesterday in the Commission it was not possible to go beyond the adoption of an agenda and for this reason, as in the case of the tourism sector, the budget law must be the ground for a regulatory change that protects small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the Italian economy. In conclusion, Mr President, I take note of the acceptance of our amendment on labour appeals, as well as that relating to the protection of seasonal work for cableway installations. However, there are still the issues that I have highlighted and which affect many economic sectors already experiencing the difficulties of an overall picture of economic stagnation and which ask for answers: it is necessary to give them as soon as possible and in the most appropriate direction. I hope that the problems I have posed will be resolved with the adoption of the next budget law. [[Applause from Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u45	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u46	Mr President, I want to speak on one issue. In recent days, discussing the measure in the Commission, we have strongly supported some amendments, in particular the 15.0.1 and 15.0.2 - which I have signed with the whole Group - relating to the issue of the provision of citizenship income for the benefit of persons who have reported final sentences for serious crimes of terrorism or belonging to mafia associations. It is well known that this issue has emerged in recent days. I am referring in particular to the Saracen case, a member of the red brigades involved in the dramatic affair of the killing of Professor D'Antona - one of the last heinous crimes, of blood, carried out by the red brigades, in particular in Rome - which, despite the events we had predicted and denounced, ended up benefiting from the income of citizenship (and not only her, for the truth). When the subject was discussed in the parliamentary classrooms, we had tabled some preclusive amendments to avoid this fact (it seems to me that Senator Aimi, who is here next to me and reminds me of him, had been among the promoters). In the House, the question was then raised, with even greater force, by Mr Zanettin. It did not take the glass ball to prophesy that terrorists, mobsters and others would also be stuck in the broad meshes of this measure, but unfortunately, in the Chamber of the House, when Mr Zanettin, already a member of the Senate Assembly, had reiterated this matter, our amendment was rejected by the whole majority of the time, colleagues: the whole majority of the time. This was not the Government, it was another; then we see that some now share our thesis: welcome, I do not want to make controversy. Well, I have put this matter back together with my colleagues and I thank Senator Toffanin and Senator Paroli, who follow the measure in the Commission. I went to the Commission and I tabled these amendments and other groups also tabled them (some of them in the past supported this argument like us and others did not) but the amendments were considered impossible. Article 4 of this decree-law explicitly mentions legislation on citizenship income, so the functional link, which is a relevant element for the admissibility of amendments, was there. Then, even for the House, this matter cannot be proposed and trust will come. I find it shameful that we have not given rise to the adoption of our amendments against the mobsters and terrorists. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The President of the Commission, to whom I raised the problem, literally said: I have to think about it. I went the next day and they told me that the amendment was improbable. When I asked why, you didn't get the answer. I think it is a serious political choice. The decree-law at our examination could at least contain a positive fact among many errors: the cancellation of the income of citizenship to terrorists and mafias. Instead, the Red and Yellow Government did not want our amendment to be debated and voted on. Shame! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u47	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u48	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the conversion of Decree-Law No 101 of 2019 will allow us to have some additional instruments aimed at ensuring an organic system of provisions for the protection of labour, in order to ensure economic and regulatory protection for some particularly weak categories. On the other hand, it is a measure that allows the use of instruments aimed at the recovery of companies in crisis and the recovery of employment with the investment of new resources in order to restore the strength of productive sectors at risk. It is a measure that is characterized in the first part by a series of rules that increase the protection of precarious work. We have welcomed, as a Group, a measure that increases the prerogatives and safeguards for the self-employed and certainly we have also welcomed the rules that improve the conditions of the riders, but we would have liked, and this is what my colleague Annamaria Parente said before, a measure that had a simpler character, perhaps the extension of the norm of the jobs act, Article 2 of Legislative Decree No 81 also to work organized through computer platforms and to the work characterized by the hetero-organization, that is the organization prepared by the client, but not the creation of a different discipline for the riders. We would have preferred a simpler, more homogeneous discipline, covering certain specificities of self-employment. We have, however, welcomed this measure during the work of these weeks. We believe that this is a step forward and we believe that it is a response to the changing world of work, because the theme of those who build their job offering through computer platforms is a current topic in the economy and affects tens of thousands of people. In our country this is the exclusive mode of employment for 150,000 people, so some answers had to be given and it is right to have done so. It is clear that this measure will have to be the beginning of a journey. In the long term, we will have to think of building a core of universal guarantees for workers in this category, so that we can combine flexibility and protection. This must be the medium- and long-term objective. I believe that one important aspect of the measure under consideration is that there is still a job-act system, a reform that is so vicious, but still produces significant results. It has produced them in the past with job creation, with the cancellation of fake VAT matches and fake collaborations, with the elimination of that type of work that was self-employed, while in reality it was subordinate work. We believe that reform extended protection to precarious work. There remains that plant that has been very attacked and controversial over the years, while in my opinion it has produced results. Today we modify it partially, but we leave it unchanged. I would like to make a few comments, moving towards the conclusion of my speech, on the importance of the measure on the side of resolution. I think there are important tools to stem the current corporate crises in many territories of the country, starting from Sicily, Sardinia and Isernia, so that there is a guarantee to support income and to safeguard employment levels. I believe that the rules on setting up a fund to reduce energy prices for companies operating in areas where coal-fired power stations are to be closed have been very important. We also welcome the establishment of the Energy Transition Fund and the Job Conversion Fund in the territories where coal-fired power stations are located. Finally, I come to the Ilva affair. I believe that this situation must lead us to an important and united reflection. The article extending the criminal shield to those working in the framework of the implementation of the Environmental Plan is deleted. We take note of this choice, but we think that the Ilva theme must again be central in the coming months, for the protection of employment, for the realization of the environmental protection actions of that area and, above all, to put in place all the tools that will serve for the environmental conversion of those areas, also making faith in the programming foreseen by the complex crisis area of Taranto and the surrounding realities. We must see this stop as an element in order to strongly relaunch the issue of the protection of that important industrial area of our country from the point of view of both the safeguarding of employment, and the protection of the environment. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u49	As agreed, we suspend the work until 15, works that will resume with the intervention of Senator Gasparri and, to follow, others, in memory of Senator Bonaiuti. (The sitting was suspended at 12:34 p.m. and resumed at 15:01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u52	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to point out in this House that he has seen him as a protagonist of his intense experience as a politician, as a journalist, as a person who has made an important contribution to the debate of this last phase of Italian life, Paolo Bonaiuti. Born in Florence on July 7, 1940, Paolo Bonaiuti left us on October 16, 2019, after a disease he was unable to overcome. He was a politician, like the parliamentary mandates and the prestigious positions of government he held testify, and journalist of race and high quality. He was for a long time, for fourteen years, spokesperson for Silvio Berlusconi, undersecretary of the Presidency of the Council in the Berlusconi II, III and IV Governments. He animated the political experience of Forza Italia, the People of Freedom and the entire bow of the center-right. Graduated in law, he taught English; he was head of the economic service of "Il Giorno" (The Day), sent who followed many events mainly economic. On Friday, when we greeted Paul in the adjacent church of Sant'Ivo, some of his colleagues recalled his travels, experiences, wisdom and the ability with which he told oil crises and many other chapters of contemporary economic history. The Messenger also became Deputy Director. In 1996 he started a phase of political activity, which, as I recalled, saw him elected for many legislatures, from 1996 to 2013, first to the Chamber of Deputies and then, finally, to the Senate. Paolo Bonaiuti has had a unanimous acknowledgment in recent days by journalists who have had him for a long time, in search of news, an authentic interpretation, sometimes achieved by a denial; sometimes he was ironized with him about the preventive denials, that those who play such a delicate role in the Presidency of the Council must send out to relieve news, controversy, misunderstandings, misunderstandings or phrases that sometimes pronounce themselves not evaluating, then, the relapse. Paul has always interpreted, explained, blunted, even with an elegant trait, with the culture that so many of us in this Group, but I also think in the wider parliamentary arc and in the world of journalism, have been able to appreciate. Even in the last few years, even at this stage of his illness, I had maintained, like other friends, the custom of meeting for morning coffee, even in a phase when the physicist created an obstacle in speaking, in communication. However, even in these phases its basic culture, its knowledge of classical texts, but also of economic and political issues, have always made it a valuable reference point for all. In the most glorious phases of Forza Italia, with "Il Mattinale" and other publications, began at dawn to give an address and orientation to an entire political world. These qualities have been remembered and witnessed by all journalists even these days. He has collected flattering judgments: on the "Corriere della Sera" they remembered his ironic but also melancholy smile, his refined elegance, his culture; on "La Repubblica" they spoke of a lovable and very civilized person. It has also been remembered the attitude sometimes a little' scanned that led him to dedramatize the difficult moments, as there have been, that for its function lived in the front line having to filter the first reactions and the first interpretations of this or that fact. I therefore believe that it is not only the Forza Italia Group who remembers it with emotion; I also remember some bitterness, but this is not the place to remember them. With great style, Paul was able to live the days of glory and those in which perhaps some bitterness struck him and always did so with great discretion. In these years, after the closure of his parliamentary experience, he could have written books not on the background, but for example on international meetings and the many positive events that have seen him protagonist alongside Berlusconi; however, he has made confidentiality a lesson of style for everyone, because even when a delicate and important function ceases, the seriousness and rigour of behavior do not fail. Among the many teachings of quality, wisdom, culture and balance, I also believe that the Senate must recognize Paolo Bonaiuti, whom we remember with emotion and friendship. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u55	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, with Paolo Bonaiuti we had different political ideas, but we have always respected each other, in fact we were two old friends. I want to remember him as a very decent man, a cultured man, attentive to institutional issues, very keen in the eyes of people and full of attention to anyone who happened to meet him. We can talk about him by remembering the many faces of a rich and complex life. He has done many trades and has always excelled in everything he has done: he has been a great journalist and, in a profession that often succumbs to sensationalism and unfortunately also to the excesses of partisan politics, Paolo Bonaiuti has always maintained the deontological and professional line that he considered indispensable: fidelity in the story of facts and honesty in the expression of judgments. He was President Berlusconi's spokesman and I think it is very difficult to find a more complicated and more delicate job than a close collaboration with Berlusconi. Well, Paolo Bonaiuti managed to keep his professional figure intact while living with a personality as overflowing and charismatic as that of President Berlusconi and even in that circumstance he remained himself, he remained Paolo Bonaiuti, for example for all of us, and taught us that having a straight back is better than political servility. He was also a colleague of ours here in the Senate, in a difficult legislature, in which we all appreciated him for the balance of his positions, but also for the composure that always, on every occasion, he was able to maintain, even when the Assembly was agitated and, sometimes, he even seemed to lose control of parliamentary correctness. Paolo Bonaiuti was a gentleman and demonstrated this also in his life as a senator. Finally, I would also like to mention this as a person. In recent years, I have had lunch with him several times: meetings of old friends with different ideas. He was a great gourmet, always in a sparkling and ironic mood and was also an extraordinary conversationalist. He was above all an intellectually honest friend; he knew the things of politics and also the things of life. Ironic and cultured, I liked above all for the richness and depth of his humanity, for his always being a gentleman and for the ability to see the problems of our country and the world. That's how I remember it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u58	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I, too, was moved by Senator Bonaiuvi, whom I had the pleasure of knowing, as Under-Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council by delegation to publishing, when I was in the 7th Commission, during the 16th legislature. As my colleagues have already mentioned, we all have a fond, cultured, refined and always balanced memory of him. I imagine his entry into politics has taken place gradually. As a journalist, he was involved in foreign affairs and then he was involved in politics; I imagine that there was a great passion and so, with Silvio Berlusconi, he began his career as spokesperson, a career that then lasted six legislatures. He was therefore a person who was able to have a great deal of influence, also thanks to his four-time role as Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I think that they are more than obliged a greeting and a remembrance respectful of a figure that has been important for Italian politics, from 1996 until now. For this very reason, on behalf of my entire Group, I present the senses of the deepest sympathy not only to the Forza Italia Group, but also to all the family members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u61	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is very nice that today the Senate, with the words of my fellow Members Gasparri, Zanda and Rivolta, has addressed a greeting to a colleague whom we have seen for many years in the parliamentary classrooms. Politics sometimes does not have a great deal of humanity; sometimes it also has a certain inhumanity. Well, today, with this common moment of remembrance, we want instead to give back to politics the value of an experience lived together; together with other people, together with people who may be political opponents, but with whom we share a common path of one's own life, an important phase. I belonged, together with a group of colleagues from the 17th legislature, who usually meet at the home of Senator Viceconte, to a community of colleagues from that legislature who usually, together with Bonaiuti, were to discuss politics. They were and are to reflect together, with much serenity and objectivity, but also with great passion. Well, Paul was a gentleman, he was a man - as colleagues have said - who really can be an example of good politics, but not only, an example of lordship even in his journalistic profession. I would like to recall one thing, which was outlined by Senator Zanda when, with a lot of education, as he usually does, he mentioned the very long and significant period of collaboration of Paolo Bonaiuti with President Berlusconi. Well, I would like to refer to the last phase of your political experience, recalling the confidentiality, respect and devotion that have never failed in your relationship with Berlusconi compared to that phase of your professional and political experience. [[Applause from Senator Calenda]] The human figure of Paolo Bonaiuti is this: in moments when many times we have been scattered in chatter, maliciousness and small criticism, Paul has been plastered. If sometimes a colleague approached him, perhaps to ask some details about Berlusconi, Paul became silent, got up and left if there was a hut of colleagues, just to avoid in any way being involved in chatter that did not belong to him from the moral point of view. Paolo Bonaiuti was this: a lord of politics, a lord of journalism, a man who has always respected all, opponents and friends. In this sense it is nice that the Senate is today remembering the figure of this colleague of ours, of whom we will long keep a memory full of affection and friendship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u64	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, after the fine words of my previous colleagues, I too will use a few seconds to remember a person on behalf of Italia Viva-P.S.I, because I had the pleasure of meeting Paolo Bonaiuti in the last parliamentary term and often meeting him near the Senate, on the walks that I sometimes took. It is nice to remember Paolo Bonaiuti who made every parliamentary group, in a very transversal and free way, a little informal (maybe he would have liked it this way). We also remember him as a good person, a colleague of great humanity, curious and attentive to the changes of society. We also remember him for his way of being, very simple and reserved, with that passion that unites each one of us who is sitting in this House, so important. It was a pleasure to talk to him; he liked to talk to young people and was attentive and respectful of the sensibilities of all. I think that today the best way to remember an important figure of journalism and politics is precisely this: in a simple and careful way, as perhaps he would have liked, not to go too much in detail, knowing that each of us had a thought, even today, to remember this important figure of Italian politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u67	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we too, Senators of the Free and Equal component (but I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole of the Mixed Group), want to associate ourselves with the fine words and remembrance of our colleague Bonaiuvi, whom we have also known in this House for his work. We want to remember it with affection. Over the years, even on positions so different from ours, she has always been a very attentive and polite person. With elegance he has also dealt with moments that are not simple, linked to his role. Above all, he was capable of dialogue and of paying attention to the positions of others, even those, like ours, very different from his. I think it is absolutely right and proper for this House not only to associate itself with the grief and mourning of the family, but to remember it today, just as all colleagues in the other groups have done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u70	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, we from the Brothers of Italy Group in the Senate are also associated with the words we have heard from all our colleagues about the figure and the person of Paolo Bonaiuti. I had the honour of knowing him and working with him for a few years and I must say that he was a truly extraordinary man, considered also the difficult task that had been assigned to him and that he has always been able to carry out with great passion and also with great confidentiality. Paul had a great gift, that of listening. Although very often we had different visions, different characters, different ways of dealing with certain issues, he was always the person he listened to, who had the ability to make a synthesis, who could help you understand and direct you, giving you a help or a contribution. I believe that we will miss him, that he will not lack only his family, to whom goes our great embrace and my personal affection. I think there will be a person like him, a good person, animated, in journalism and political activity, from passion, which I believe is a very, very important element. We say to him: 'Goodbye' and we are glad that today, in this House, we are all reminded of this with the right words. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u73	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I too, on behalf of myself and the Group, offer my condolences to the family. When I arrived in the Senate, Paolo Bonaiuti represented, like many other MPs of Forza Italia, a man seen only on television and of whom I had not yet been able to appreciate the politeness and kindness he had shown in dealing with me, especially in the RAI Supervisory Commission, where we spent five years, facing, on one side and obviously us on the other, problems relating to the public service. Always wisely - I must admit - and calmly could say the right thing at the right time, perhaps to bring forward a useful speech to everyone in the work of the RAI Supervisory Commission. That's why I remember him. I have not met him on other occasions, however, even when I met him on the street, he always stopped to exchange a few words, even in recent times, when he was - it was seen - really suffering. We therefore express our condolences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u74	The Presidency supports the memory and calls on the House to respect a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u75	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Fratelli d'Italia Group has tabled a number of amendments on the current Decree-Law laying down provisions for the protection of work and for the resolution of company crises - on 3.0.1 and on the following - to remedy the shame, which has been denounced by many, concerning the income of citizenship. We have seen, in fact, in these days, that it is being given to terrorists, to ex-Brigatists, to mafias and today we have discovered that it is also being given to smugglers. Colleagues, you will not have missed the news, which today is in many newspapers, according to which a gang of smugglers, who traded in cigarettes bought from abroad, for a turnover of 600,000 euros, for about 3,000 kilos of tobacco, was paid the income of citizenship, from 300 to 700 euros per month. It has in fact been distributed to five members of this band of smugglers, which has been arrested. Well, our amendments, aimed at putting an end to this shame, were declared inadmissible in the Commission, despite the clear reference, in the text of the decree-law to our examination, to Law No 26 of 28 March 2019, which established citizenship income. To those who do not believe me, just read Article 5 of the Decree-Law in question, which explicitly intervenes on the organic endowment of the INPS. Then you have to explain to us why you ruled out and I ask the government... Mr President, I would ask the representative of the Government if he can listen, because it seems good and fair to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u77	I would ask colleagues to allow the Minister to listen to the senator who is intervening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u78	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). I ask for a matter of mere education, even if they may not respond. I asked the government why our amendments in the Commission were declared inadmissible, despite the clear reference of Article 5 of the measure under consideration to Law No 26 of 28 March 2019, which established citizenship income. I would like to ask the Government why our amendments have been excluded, since, as far as we know, this decision is absolutely unfounded and is certainly not a technical decision. So the government must have the courage to say that the choice made was exquisitely a political choice, because all of you, all the representatives of the red and yellow government, from your political leader, ministers, sub-secretaries, parliamentarians, in every television broadcast denounce this shame and say that as soon as possible it will be put in place. However, I would like to remind you that we would not have needed to put it right, because I recall the amendments signed by Senator Balboni, who we all of the Brothers of Italy Group presented in this Chamber with which we proposed something very simple: those who had been definitively sentenced to more than two years in prison should not have received the income of citizenship. In that case, too, the Government, at the time of the Giallorossi, was against it. You go on television, make proclamations in which you say that it is absolutely a shame, but then, when in the Assembly or in the Commission Brothers of Italy gives you the solution and offers it on a silver plate, say no, say that you do not want this solution. Moreover, I remind the Government that also the sample controls carried out by the Finance Guard show that a very high proportion of those who receive the income of citizenship according to the law in force, with meshes not wide, but very wide, is not in order: in particular, from the checks carried out it turns out that at least one person in three would not have the right. Another information I want to give to this House is that, as has been shown, those who receive the income of citizenship who, after recognition of income, should have signed the contract with the commitment to move forward and to carry out everything necessary for the famous jobs, are not even presenting themselves to do this. Beyond the fact that the income of citizenship, as I think the majority of Italians have now understood, is a total failure, I ask why our amendments have been declared inadmissible today: we probably do not want to resolve the situation, which is good for the Government. You will remember that all this speech was born when we talked about the Saracen case, the brigadeist, daughter of a famous red toga, sentenced to twenty-one years and six months in prison, who did not even serve five years in prison and is still under house arrest, however, Saracens, makes all Italians pay the income of citizenship that it perceives. On that occasion - but at this point I would like to understand how much it is worth and how much weight it has the word of the Ministers that make up the Government - the Minister Catalfo, on 2 October, promised a technical table for an immediate regulatory response to put an end to this scandal and to all those similar. So today it is clear why the amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy have been declared inadmissible: because if they had arrived in this Chamber and had been put to the vote, dear representatives of the Government, you would have fallen the mask, the one you wear when you are in public, when you are on television and when you denounce that it is shameful and unfair that brigadeists, terrorists, smugglers, rapists and paedophiles perceive the income of citizenship. Today, however, it is clear that your mask has fallen because, if our amendments had arrived in this House, you would certainly have voted against them. We of Brothers of Italy therefore want to make Italians understand well what the Government thinks about the income of citizenship and what it does not want to do, that is to put an end to the shame represented by the recipients of the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u79	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Comprensivo di Atri, in the province of Teramo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u80	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this measure addresses a number of issues, certainly not in a completely decisive way, but in a very important and decisive way. I am referring, first of all, to the concrete progress made in relation to what we call the work of riders, the work organized by the platforms: it widens and gives a fundamental response on the protections that otherwise those workers and workers have not had until now and would not have. The measure collects - and I want to stress this here, because it seems to me to be a very important merit - the experience of the Bologna Charter. This is a journey and a process that these workers and workers have made, also meeting the institutions like the Municipality of Bologna and making a decisive contribution to addressing the issue. But why is it so important, as other Members have already pointed out? Not only, I repeat, for the engagement with national bargaining, to bring out a radical change in the way work is organised, but because the issue stimulates us to address in more general terms the issue of rights and how to protect and organize work. We are now in an era where the vertical organization of work may no longer have the pregnance it had before. We need - and we will have to work on this for a new statute for workers, for a new charter - to build, given how the work has changed, a network that guarantees all the work in their different forms. The way in which self-employment and employees are understood also requires cultural innovation because, until now, a significant part of the self-employed has in fact been a category of super-subordinates, with fewer rights than permanent workers. This is about technological innovation and the structural changes that the production methods propose to us. So, this is a significant first step, which has allowed us to give an answer to so many people, who can finally feel that institutions are able to understand their problems, read them and not simply comment on them in a talk show. The second issue I want to propose, which has also raised a number of opposition colleagues, concerns business crises. Now, that the tables are over 150 is not the responsibility of the previous government, nor of the current government. This measure, meanwhile, deals with some concrete and specific issues that, through shock absorbers, can give an answer but it is quite clear, and I am sure that the Minister wants to move forward in this direction, which we, as some colleagues from the opposition have said, need to define, beyond Industry 4.0, a new strategy of industrial policy in this country. This new strategy cannot, of course, be satisfied with the instruments relating to shock absorbers. We need to think of innovative policies which also refer to the public service in industrial policies. Let me give an example: I have never considered that the arrival of a multinational in itself represents evil, but it is quite clear that we cannot fail to have a plan of industrial relations with that multinational which defines the commitments, prospects and framework in which this multinational operates. It is quite clear that we must address the strategic problem of how to support 95% of our companies, those with less than 10 employees, who do not have capitalization and therefore do not have the resources for the technological challenge; it is called credit, it is called research, it is called business networks or it is necessary to build a process of evolution. We must propose ourselves not only with policies of support, but with a new protagonism of the public and the Government in relation to the sectors that strategically are at the highest added value and growing in the coming years: life sciences, biomedical, nanotechnology. On this land, colleagues and colleagues, we are not the second manufacture in Europe. In these areas we are far behind and from this point of view the problem challenges politics and the government, but it also challenges enterprise, entrepreneurs and social forces. The key concepts for me are a new social pact, ecological transformation, transition and the need to redefine a long perspective, linked to training and the possibility of giving a strategic response. We are in a country where entrepreneurs are looking for engineers and do not find them, when we have hundreds and thousands of graduate people who go outside of Italy. We need a strategic facility. I see that there have already been threatening positions on Ilva, but I am convinced that Minister Patuanelli will give a very serious answer - as he has already said - to the worried letter of the unions. Let us be clear: here the problem is that that industrial plan that is already in great difficulty, as demonstrated by the change of the managing director, requires a clarification and the definition of a strategy not so much of shields, as on where we want to go, as will the real ecological transition and how this industrial plant will be supported. With regard to other interventions, I am very pleased with the solution we gave to ANPAL Servizi SpA, which should make active policies, while risking the boomerang of passive policies. We finally give an answer to those 654 people who would otherwise have been expelled. We therefore value those competences and relaunch active policies. New recruitments in the INPS are also important, first of all on the issue of safety at work. I would like to conclude by referring to something very important that a colleague has said today in relation to the issue of waste declassification. I would like to say this in this House during these hours: we have made a virtuous journey there. None of the political forces of the majority attached themselves to the chest of the Scudetto and instead sought a solution; it will not be definitive, but it is a good step forward. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if I may, that this and only this is the right way. We in Italy must give tranquillity and define a clear perspective; do not hang on to this or that opposition, perhaps to the detriment of someone else in the majority. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u83	Mr President, I do not deny you that we are very concerned about the way in which we have worked today and the measure we are examining. The working methods have seen the majority quarrel, hold meetings and against meetings and 99% will come to trust. Consequently, this measure, which was intended to protect our companies in order to help our workers, has once again become the object of confrontation in a very abnormal majority. We are also very concerned about the content of the measure, which is expected by companies and workers. Once again, however, people who may not have worked much in his life do not listen and, consequently, listen to companies, as in the case of Ilva does something totally different from what is required. There is also the example of the riders, who ask for a certain measure, but who does not know what it means to work makes a totally different one. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are most concerned about is, in fact, what is not within the measure. Let us give two examples because it is always good to do them. The first is agriculture, which we do not talk about and do not have to talk about. We do not speak simply because the Minister of Agricultural Policy has transformed the Ministry of Agricultural Policy into Via Venti Settembre, 20 in the headquarters of Italy Viva and, consequently, does not even know where to start with agriculture. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Precisely because we have an agricultural policy minister coming from the world of work, we expected that at least on the world of work on this measure would put his hands on us. The only thing this Minister has told us today about the world of work is that, in order to overcome the problems of agriculture, more immigrants must be imported. You will be happy this way, but we are not happy because we want to give more rights to all those who work in our country and, above all, to the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Given that there is total decommitment in this sector, we did not realize that companies in this sector are asking for action. They asked us and we had already started working on it. Let's think about the issue of xylella, the issue of climatic emergencies - even these days there are some Provinces and Regions of our country that are asking for help - the issue of the Asian bug, for which the Minister tells us that they will intervene with 80 million. You can put in even 200 million, but without a project, an idea or a way of working that money will be wasted. Let us think about the problems of wildlife, the problem of falling prices, which is currently afflicting Italian agriculture. So, the goal was to give a signal to this sector. On the other hand, there is no intervention on agriculture. We tried with amendments, which were not invented by Senators Centinario, Bergesio, Vallardi or Sbrana. These are amending proposals tabled in cooperation with the trade associations, which asked us why such a measure should not be applied to agriculture. So, we took care of it and introduced them. We have tabled amendments on the Caporalate, since we are filling our mouths on the Caporalate and the Minister is talking only about this. Unfortunately, they have not even been taken into account, as happened, on the other hand, for vouchers. The question we ask ourselves is: are you interested in this sector or are you interested in agriculture only when you go to conferences to cut ribbons or perhaps to eat and drink? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The other problem, the other issue that we have put on the table, is the issue of tourism. Here too, we have a minister who does not really understand much about tourism. We hoped, however, that the Undersecretary, who is, instead, a decent person and who understands about tourism, would explain to this Minister, who had already done the Minister, at the time, in a disastrous way, what it means to do the Minister of Tourism. At the TTG at the Rimini Tourism Fair, he didn't even show up. There is a crisis in the tourism sector, which is called the failure of Thomas Cook, a foreign tour operator who has left problems in our country. The problem is that Minister Franceschini did not even consider the professional associations that asked for a hearing in order to explain this situation. What is involved in Thomas Cook's failure? 400 million euros estimated losses for the Italian tourism sector. On average, 118,000 euros of average Italian companies' credit against a company that failed internationally. The problem is that, on those credits, our companies and, above all, the hotels pay taxes and VAT, that we are making them pay while they are asking us for help. And you, nothing. Nothing! Mr Patuanelli, you who also deal with production activities, go to explain that tourism is a productive activity and, perhaps, you go to explain to your colleagues, since we estimated it when you were a Parent Company, that tourism is a serious thing. It is not enough to say: yes, tourists come to Italy. Because Franceschini always said so. It is not enough to say that tourism goes on alone. It is not enough to say that we have the Colosseum and, as a result, people come. Tourism is a very delicate sector, where the marginality of companies is so low that a failure of a large tour operator like Thomas Cook is enough to send into crisis an entire sector, which is the Italian one. You don't even know where you're headed. But how do you want to talk about this sector? Do something else in life! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Also on tourism, we asked to include vouchers in tourism. We asked even when, in his place, there was, alas, Minister Di Maio. We asked him to include vouchers in tourism and the answer, for which I was quite angry, had been: yes, we insert them for accommodation facilities with a maximum of eight employees. The tourism industry had laughed at us. We have asked to give an answer, because the tourism sector is asking us, it is asking us to increase and improve vouchers. Nothing. They're not even considered. It is better, however, to give citizenship income, so at least there are people who take citizenship income and go to work in black in the tourism sector. That's it! [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] On the question of youth hostels, thankfully, now, after two months, you have approved the proposal that I had made in the Council of Ministers on this measure. I had asked the Council of Ministers to include that rule. The answer was: yes, then we see, we have to agree politically. Well, the first measure you took was to take it off. Luckily, at least this one has been inserted. Mr President, I shall end by saying that at least I do not take too much time in this House. [[Senator Bressa's comments. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u84	I call on my fellow Members to maintain a proper language in this House. Colleagues, I didn't hear. The offices have reported it to me and I have arranged to call my colleagues back. Senator Centinario, I invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u85	Mr President, this really does not affect me any more. Donkey's boy in heaven doesn't go up, as my grandmother used to say. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Mr President, there are three of us and four of us are fighting. Renzi quarrels with Zingaretti, who quarrels with Di Maio, who quarrels with Conte, who quarrels with Renzi, who quarrels with Zingaretti. As a result, there are three of you and, in a month, you have done more damage than last legislature the Democratic Party together with the new center-right. The hope we had, dear colleagues in the Democratic Party that you criticize us, is that, by joining you in the majority, you might have been able to explain to your colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars how to manage the public thing. We have not succeeded in 14 months. The problem, ladies and gentlemen of the PD, is that it is they who have infected you and now you are in the middle of the 5 Stars and Renzi and you risk disappearing. Do our country and your constituents a favor: pull the plug and let's go vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u86	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u87	Mr President, this decree-law was issued on 3 September just a few days after the new government was set up. I would therefore like to fill the amnesia of Minister Centinario: he was also in the Council of Ministers who approved it at the beginning of August. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; if he doesn't remember, we remind him. We wondered why it was necessary at that time to issue this decree-law. Beyond some roboating statements by Minister Di Maio on several issues, after a year and a half of Government, Whirlpool, Ilva and Alitalia are still there and on the table there are many other corporate crises. We will also talk about the rest, former Minister Centinario, because this is the first time we have heard about tourism in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But he is no longer a Minister, so I do not know how to define his speech. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). He's a senator! COLLINA (PD). I want to stress the change that has occurred in this majority, because a phase has changed: we have taken on all the issues, overcoming also the doubts that perhaps there were at the time of the enactment of the decree-law. I want to stress this because the Government is clearly born out of political will, but in concrete terms I believe that first of all its foundations arise from parliamentary leadership - even before those political leaderships - that have worked and collaborated and interloquito to bring about this Government, demonstrating dialogues and capable of involving parliamentary groups and senators. I believe that for this Government it is an asset not to be lost. Unlike what appears in the press, here in Parliament there are conditions for us to get out of the flag logics and deal with the concreteness of the issues, even if we are dealing every day with the dialectic and quarrelsomeness of political leaders. This attitude that we have found in Parliament in order to carry forward the content of the decree-law under consideration and improve it, dealing with some issues that we have not always found a way to bring to the bottom completely, but on which some agendas certainly represent binding commitments for this Government - I say this to myself out of conviction and confidence in all of you - will also be positively decisive in the examination of the next budget law. Here in Parliament we will therefore find the conditions for making the right choices that strengthen and give perspective to this Government. I believe in it because we are facing a path that must give us the opportunity to make irreversible in our country the changes that we are trying to impose, because they need graduality and time, as well as being able to carry out in an articulated way, but also irreversible. This also concerns our businesses: entrepreneurs, you see, need certainties to carry out their own business. In Italy there is always that retrothought that leads to saying that a change has been made that goes in that direction, but then will it resist? Is it true it's gonna end like this? With this Government, in these three years that I believe we have before us, we must succeed in giving irreversibleity to the change in the conditions that form within the enterprises, in the entrepreneurs and in the workers within our society. I quote some of the contents of the decree-law. Some issues have already been addressed by my colleague, Mr Nannicini, with regard to riders and gig economy workers. I will focus on other issues that have been addressed. Clearly the interventions that concern the areas of complex crisis, the corporate crises and the tables currently open to the Ministry are important issues. Having refinanced with an extension the extraordinary earnings fund allows us to still be incisive on this plan. Of note is the agreement on the end of waste, which unlocks the mechanisms that are not working, taking into account the sensitivity of the theme. The circular economy must be favored, but above all implemented: we must ensure conditions of certainty and with this measure we reactivate many virtuous paths. We have brought to the attention other issues through agendas that have been accepted, but of course we are waiting for subsequent actions and subsequent developments, which will have to address the issues in practice. I am referring first of all to Thomas Cook's failure, which took place on 23 September; after a few weeks the analysts assessed the extent of the impact of this failure on the Italian tourist system. At this point we must definitely open a table that allows us, in comparison with the tourism sector, to put in place those actions that can allow our companies to face this sudden difficulty. There was also talk of the discount on the invoice compared to incentives and the bonus for energy restructuring and efficiency, on which an agenda was presented. We know that the Minister has addressed the issue and is building a solution in this sense, to protect the fabric of the small and medium-sized enterprise present in our country that, compared to the large volume of interventions generated by bonuses and incentives on renovations and energy efficiency of buildings, cannot be put out of the market by a legislative intervention that surely meets the needs of citizens, but that cannot only favour large companies. I would also like to highlight the theme of the buyout workers, which is a fundamental aspect. I come from a land where this solution in so many corporate crises has had a positive outcome. In many small centres, entrepreneurial initiatives that gave opportunities for development to the territory have failed and the great will of the workers, gathered in cooperative, has allowed to save these productive sites and the local economy. This is an issue that needs to be addressed and we believe that the agenda can represent a significant commitment to the Government. Let's get to Ilva. We have declared it a "establishment of national strategic interest" and we must understand what this definition means. A country like ours, which is an economic power, a member of the G7 and the G8, represents one of the places in the world where economic development is produced and cannot be deprived of steel production. This is a fundamental issue. With regard to this, there must be an awareness that it raises a number of issues. From 2013 to today, throughout the legislature, we have been looking for the conditions that held together the safeguarding of employment levels with a path of environmental improvement that, with adequate investments, moved credibly towards a point of compatibility. That's the goal. Otherwise, if we are not convinced that in Taranto there is a balance between steel production and sustainability and environmental competitiveness, then we are telling ourselves stories. That's the point. We have this conviction: that there is this point of balance and that we can work in that direction. Other points of view I see and recognize only as ideological, pre-constituted; points of view that do not try to find a solution, but that deny it because it is already decided that you can no longer reach that point of equilibrium. We have to find this way. In my opinion, what the Minister will tell us in his reply will be important, because our agenda represents this very request, it means our conviction. Certainly there is also a topic of our country's credibility vis-à-vis foreign investors. I do not believe that all the responsibilities (as the data show) lie with the definition of those aspects, which I would also call partial, relating to the so-called immunity, but which I would call an exemption of the group buyer's liability. There are also industrial problems: the closure of blast furnace No. 2 has lost the plant, so there are issues that go beyond the environmental one, such as the sustainability of the site. These are the themes on the table, the topics that need to find a balance and a space within the government's action. I believe that Minister Patuanelli has the will, the possibility and above all all all our support to address this issue and to be able to give a perspective to a strategic sector for the country and important from the occupational point of view, but also a future compatible from the environmental point of view for a site, for a place like Taranto that has certainly paid dearly the presence of this plant and that today must have a new perspective. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u88	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u89	Mr President, Mr Collina is right in reminding us all that the decree-law under discussion had been issued by the previous Government in the Council of Ministers. We had before us two choices: that of not converting it and that of doing an important and serious job in order to try to improve it and to make it more adapted to the needs that gradually emerged, not only because the sensibilities and ideas in the majority have changed on some very important points, but because this is a measure on the corporate crises that in itself must follow and deal with the dynamics and problems that are created in the country itself. I have to say that a good job has been done here, demonstrating that this majority has been able to deal with problems not simple and has been able to deal with the work and sensibilities of all, producing a situation in our opinion absolutely advanced on some points, which perhaps some time ago was not even conceivable; at the origin of the measure, in fact, these innovations were not there. I'm thinking about riders. I would like to remind the Ministers present that this was one of the first points to be evoked at the time by Minister Di Maio, when, as soon as he arrived at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, he received the riders themselves. In the meantime, however, the situation had not found any defining points. On the question of riders, I believe that we have taken advantage of some important experiences which, in the meantime, even from the regulatory point of view, had been carried forward. Mr Errani recalled the Bologna Charter; I would also like to recall the regional law of Piedmont and the regional law of Emilia Romagna itself, which began to indicate a road. The legislator cannot fail to see what is happening in the world of work, in a very specific sector, that of the gig economy; this majority, having as a point of reference values and of coagulation of the majority itself that of guaranteeing protections and rights, taking inspiration from these experiences advanced from the point of view of regulation, has produced a result and of the norms in our opinion certainly still improveable, because we can still make some progress, but that are however very important. They represent a significant step forward in the area of workers' rights and protection, in the light of these new trades and changes in the world of work. The legislator often struggles to prevent or keep behind the dynamism of the world of work, but I believe that in this case we have marked a point forward. We must never forget, as legislators, that we are dealing with the lives of people in the flesh; we often work here doing some kind of abstract operation, but in reality behind the standards that we approve there are people, men and women, young and even less young, who will benefit from it and who, if we fail, will be penalized. These rules give rights to about 20,000 workers, improving what was initially foreseen by the decree-law that we are about to convert, just as it was approved by the Council of Ministers of the other Government; these workers, up to now, were absolutely without rights and without protection, practically at the mercy of algorithms and digital platforms. Many hearings have been held in the Commission and we have heard many points of view, of which I believe we have taken into account, because the rules that have been approved in the Commission will give the same guarantees of subordinate work for continuously employed riders and important safeguards also for those who do this work on an occasional basis. Above all, some principles are restored, which at the moment seemed completely overwhelmed. I am thinking of the question of the prohibition of piecework, which is part of the legal culture and also of the history of the struggle of the workers' movement, as well as of the civilization of work, as regards precisely the defence of the safety of the workers themselves. I am referring specifically to the fight against piecework. But we know that in this world, and not only in that of the gig economy, it has been abused and continues to do so. These rules re-establish the principle of the prohibition of piecework, which for many was no longer obvious, and - above all - a very important impetus is given, because these workers are pushing towards collective bargaining, both to determine what the minimum hourly compensation must be for the minimum tables laid down by national collective agreements, and for the existing protections. In addition, if you do not reach the union agreements, however, a series of important safeguards are established which I would like to mention here: a supplementary allowance for night work, during holidays or under adverse weather conditions; the daily sickness and hospitalization allowance; maternity and parental leave. So, a number of rights that are taken for granted for many, but that certainly were not for these workers. This is certainly a first step - we know that - but it is important. Again with regard to the world of work, I would like to point out here a result that is of all the majority and to which all the parliamentarians of the majority have worked with dedication in the last few hours. I am referring to the issue of the precariousness of ANPAL Servizi SpA. In this area, too, important work has been done and, above all, an oxymoron has been avoided, that is, the fact that those who are parliamentarians to find work for others are ultimately precarious. If the indication contained in the amendment, as approved by the Commissions, is not fully applied, there is a risk of a company producing only precarious. A great deal of work has been done, for which we must thank all our colleagues from the 10th and 11th Commissions and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. In addition to the availability, we must thank for the work carried out so that 650 workers who have been precarious for a long time (many of them even come from Italia Lavoro SpA) can start - I am referring both to workers with a fixed-term contract, and to those with a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract - finally to a stabilisation, with all the procedures provided for by the laws. Once again, this problem has not been resolved for a very long time and the solution can be attributed once again to the good work of this majority. I turn to two important aspects, the first of which concerns the end of waste rules. You will remember how many times, even in the past months, we have tried to take a step forward in a very serious situation with regard to the issue of the cessation of the status of refusal and to implement the directive. It could have been done better and on some things I would have chosen other ways, but a step forward has undoubtedly been taken. The second question concerns Ilva. But do we really want to tell ourselves that, today, the question of Ilva lies in the fact that that amendment has been repealed and deleted and, therefore, the criminal shield? I believe that the issues before us with regard to Ilva require serious reasoning (if possible, conversion), for the protection of workers and the health of all citizens of Taranto. That is the question on which we must reason. I think that this majority - and we will hear the Minister now - has all the necessary capacity and consistency, demonstrated during the month of work on the measure, in order to take a very important step forward. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u90	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u91	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion today, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 10 of 2019, contains urgent provisions for the protection of work and for the resolution of corporate crises. It takes on particular significance in the presence of new forms of work performance made possible through certain technological applications that need adequate protection. This measure also includes provisions to deal with major industrial crises taking place in various territories of the country, in order to safeguard employment levels and ensure income support for the workers involved. But not only that. Among the actions envisaged by the Government, I want to highlight for its significant social impact Article 13. Although indirectly, it aims to build a greener, fairer and more inclusive future, ensuring sustainable, secure and affordable energy, thus helping to accelerate the energy transition. In order to achieve these objectives, the article in question works on a double track. On the one hand, with paragraph 1, we finance, interventions of decarbonization and energy efficiency of the industrial sector, giving rise to a special Fund for the conversion of employment in the territories in which coal-fired power stations are located. In this respect, I had asked with an amendment to specify the areas of use of the Fund's resources, namely to ensure the maintenance and enhancement of employment levels by giving priority to productive activities aimed at enhancing the territorial production system, vocational training and retraining, as well as the development of entrepreneurial initiatives in the areas of the circular economy and the bioeconomy. Paragraph 2 establishes at the Ministry of Economic Development the Fund for the energy transition in the industrial sector, to support the energy transition of sectors exposed to a high risk of carbon leakage due to the costs related to greenhouse gas emissions transferred to electricity prices. Again, I had asked with an amendment to give a very precise address: a full turn towards a sustainable policy. In fact, I have asked that in the context of the maneuver of financing of the processes of energy transaction, priority be given to totally sustainable conversion operations, characterized by processes of decarbonization that do not foresee the use of fossil fuels strongly impacting on the habitat. I would like to mention briefly, at a territorial level, a case related to my region, Puglia: we have the coal-fired power plant Frederick II in Brindisi (known as Cerano), which is part of one of these cases. It is a necessary aid, a public accompaniment to the world of enterprise towards a new way of supply, and that looks above all to a sustainable future. The path taken by the government and this parliamentary majority is clear: it is a sign of how politics turns its gaze and actions to an ecological and circular economic model that has at heart the health of the citizen and our common home. The measure under consideration today also puts an end to the tormented history of the end of waste. What's this about? At the end of life a waste or waste ceases to qualify as waste, in order to become raw material entering a production cycle. Thanks to this forecast you can finally close the circle and think that the discards are not only a rejection, but a resource on which to continue to invest. To do this, we must continue to work and work together alongside stakeholders. The agreement reached by this parliamentary majority on the end of waste gives breath and hope to all sectors and to the entire network of Italian companies and, at the same time, protects the health of citizens and the resilience of our habitat. Authorisations to use a waste as second raw material may be granted by the territorial authorities, but according to clear criteria, defined by European regulations and by the indications of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. In this way it avoids creating unfair competition between Italian companies allocated in different terrors, avoiding asymmetries in the internal market, which is thus regularized. ISPRA and ARPA will monitor and monitor authorisations and installations. The most important thing is then the creation of a database of authorizations, which will serve both to carry out the necessary checks, but also to create a network of connections between the new supply chain, which is being created in the circular economy and therefore a synergy between the circular companies. Therefore, it will be easier to place the waste in the exit, the waste of a company, entering another production process. At this point I must absolutely express the joy and thanks of all the Apulian MPs, especially the parliamentarians of the area of Taranto [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to do this with the words of my colleague, Senator Ruggiero Quarto: removing immunity is not an ideological choice, but an ecological one. We do not exchange post-ideologicalism with the absence of indispensable human values, which make humanity a community. We think that in politics it is not enough to be good administrators, but to have a vision and our vision is "life and work" and not "death and work." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The green new deal you've heard of, so it starts here. This is the path to a change of cultural paradigm, necessary if we want to preserve the network of life for present and future generations. We need to become aware that the transition to a sustainable economy requires structural change, both on individuals and on businesses. In order to trigger a real transition, it is not enough to transpose directives and adopt laws, but it is necessary to involve all actors and actors, who play a fundamental role in this transition. Participation of all stakeholders, sharing, developing good practices and the integrated approach are necessary. We need to listen to companies and our people. A way of salvation, therefore, still exists and the time has come to make a leap forward, to form biospherical consciousnesses, to support the change of a capitalist model now in decline, at marginal cost zero, as Rifkin would say, and to move from an economic model now in disuse to a circular, ecological, collaborative and inclusive. All this can be possible by adopting a systemic approach, taking into account the complexity of the productive, economic and social system. Hence the invitation to the Government to adopt as a matter of urgency, within its competence, every initiative useful to decarbonisation of the economy, favoring the transition from fossil to renewable sources, because there is no more time to lose. We therefore welcome initiatives aimed at "decarbonising" and "deoxidising" industrial production, capable of finally promoting a true ecological social model, capable of creating useful work, a decent employment, which fills the gap of inequality between citizens, which preserves the resilience of our territories, which can protect the entire Gaia system, of which we are an integral part. It is not man who weaves the plots of life: he is only one thread and everything he does to the plot he does to himself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u92	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted a number of points to which I will try to respond with some precision and then make some general comments. Mrs Tiraboschi has drawn attention to what has been our approach to the question of riders, one of the main issues dealt with in the decree-law and has criticized, of course in her view, the decisions we have taken. I want to reply to my colleague that the measure shows the attention of the Government to one of the essential aspects of these times, namely the evolution of the world of work, an evolution that, as some would say, is irreversible and that we must try to dominate in order not to be overwhelmed or, better still, to ensure that the weakest groups are not overwhelmed because, as with all the disruptive events, the first subjects that could be damaged are precisely the weakest. That, then, was the approach we have followed on times, workplaces and minimum safeguards. In particular, we wanted to introduce a minimum protection package for those who are deprived of it at the moment. We are well aware that the place of work in the classical sense, as has been said so far, will be less and less central to the development of certain types of activity, given that technology and technological innovations bring us a whole range of new possibilities. Once again, however, we must ensure that there is no disproportion of benefits between the employer and the employer, in the sense that we must ensure that these possibilities are for everyone and not just for the employer. This means, therefore, that we must be concerned about offering protection and guarantees to workers, and this was our approach to this measure and the objective of the rule that wanted to give a first order to the category of riders. I repeat, however, that this is an opening of the way to a new world that is being born, with all the new Apps, with all the new delivery and rental services. As many of you may have noticed, yesterday a well-known company arrived here in Rome with its electric bike rental. There are electric scooters; soon the electric scooters will come for hire. It opens up a whole world linked to new technologies and smartphones, to these devices that truly open to us possibilities to which at the moment only imagination seems to mark the limit. (The sitting was suspended at 16.33 p.m. and resumed at 16.33 p.m.) We are simply paying a great deal of attention to these changes which, I repeat, are affecting an increasing proportion of the world of work. Senator Binetti made a very heartfelt speech on Article 8 of the Decree-Law concerning the Fund for the Right to Work of Disabled People. What I can answer you, Senator, is that with the rule contained in Article 8, we simply confirmed the desire to pay the utmost attention to the inclusion of people with disabilities in the world of work. This attention is not limited to and will not be limited to this measure alone, because colleagues in the Commission have already asked for and received permission to carry out a cognitive survey - which will start very shortly - on the functioning of targeted placements, bearing in mind that we are actually very focused and engaged in this area. With this article, we have simply given civil society the opportunity to make a concrete contribution to the integration of these people into work, and we have also filled an important gap. It would be a question of why we had to come here to fill such an incomprehensible and unfair gap. If we are all so worried, we could give way even earlier to those who wanted to contribute to this fund to be able to do so. So I would commend the fact that we finally fill a gap that was truly incomprehensible, unjustifiable and unbearable. Senator Gallone spoke a lot about the income of citizenship, deprecating it in an absolute way, to the point that he called it "immoral." Morality is an extremely subjective philosophical concept, so - out of charity - everything can be called immoral at the level of personal opinion. We sincerely believe, as a political group, that it cannot be called immoral a measure that has helped and raised hundreds of thousands of people from a situation of poverty; for goodness' sake, it will not change their lives and certainly not make them become rich, but it has given them a chance. Let us remember that it is 6 million in Italy who live under the poverty line and hear this instrument defined, which has helped so many people, "immoral", personally fills my heart with sadness and I am sure to speak also on behalf of my colleagues of Movimento 5 Stars. We want to protect the weakest and those who are in a position of disadvantage and difficulty for reasons many times not attributable to him (for the sake of charity, the idlers and the delinquents are there, we do not want to hide behind a fig leaf). Just as we have protected the riders, considering them the weakest, even with the income of citizenship we wanted to protect the weakest, those who do not succeed or fail to come back from a crisis situation, who may have hit him without having to blame. I would also like to refute what Mrs Gallone said when she called us enemies of entrepreneurs. I would like to stress once again, although our ministers and our political leader have already done so dozens of times (but I see that this needs to be repeated), that we are not against entrepreneurs. I say this as President of the Industry Commission, but above all as a son of an entrepreneur who up to twenty-five years has breathed the air of the family business and then, in the next twenty, has always worked, first as a freelancer and then as an employee. So I live in the world of small and medium-sized enterprises. By the way, you will also hear from the accent, I am Venetian and I am part of that North-East that is still one of the Italian industrial trains. So hearing me say that we are enemies of entrepreneurs really gives me the creeps, also because I would like to remember very briefly a series of measures that we have taken in the last year: the flat tax to 15 percent, the cut of the rates INAIL, the doubling of the deductibility Imu of the sheds, the payment of the debt that the companies have towards the public administration with Cassa depositi and loans, the mini-Ires, the coupon dry of 21 percent on the commercial properties, the bonus excellence to hire the graduates with praise, the 83 billion that Cassa deposits and loans has in program, in the next three years, for the innovation, the simple investment companies, the fund innovation from a billion. Gallone, you know perfectly well that in Italy venture capital has never taken off. We have a banking and financial system that has never venture capital as it exists in most other countries. We, after decades of lack of this essential tool for entrepreneurs, put it in place in six months because we announced it in the Stability Act last year and, a few months ago, a venture capital fund of EUR 1 billion was already ready. How, then, can we say that we are against entrepreneurs when we were the first and only ones to give venture capital funds, so venture capital on projects? I really don't get it. We have refinanced the revolving fund for research and development with 500 million. A month ago, moreover, the Spin program for South Italy was launched with a series of facilities also in this case. Having said that, I would have liked to give more specific information to my colleague Gallone who has made many general criticisms and invented a new decree-law, the "save-crisis." I do not understand that we have issued any decree called "save-crisis." We want to overcome the crises, we do not want to save the crisis, we want to save the companies affected by the crisis; perhaps there has been a small verbal refutation of our colleague. (The sitting was suspended at 16.41 p.m. and resumed at 16.41 p.m.) Mrs Garnero Santanchè deplored the fact that we did not make the amendments on citizenship income acceptable. It is true that we have not made them available because citizenship income is not a matter covered by the decree before our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we had decided otherwise, the decree-law on our examination would have been like everyone else. We would have made it omnibus and we would have immediately criticized those who said it was yet another omnibus decree. Maybe we've been pretty strict. It was also the first decree-law of this new majority and we adhered to the merit of the decree itself and this matter was not part of it. She also made a statement on irregularities, saying that one in three people who receive citizenship income is not entitled to it. Honestly, I don't know where he got this data. The official data provided by the Ministry and the INPS at 31 July say that 1,490,000 applications for citizenship income were submitted, 922,000 applications were accepted and 400,000 were rejected immediately. Linked, the verification process is working because 400,000 questions were immediately blocked and 170,000 are highlighted for further investigation and, therefore, will be deepened if the person requesting it is actually entitled. To date there have been 1,025 renunciations and 32,000 nuclei have fallen from the benefit. Perhaps he referred to those 32,000, who have fallen from the benefit because they have found work or have changed the household and, therefore, were no longer entitled to it. In addition, President Tridico INPS - they are not, therefore, my words or the 5 Star Movimento - reminds us that the cross-checks of the INPS with the linked databases have been massive and preventive compared to the acceptance of the applications. It recalls that their effectiveness is demonstrated by the fact that more than a quarter of the applications were rejected. We have used the famous technology that I mentioned earlier for citizenship income, as well as the crossroads of databases to cancel already immediately and in a preventive way more than a quarter of the questions. President INPS declares that there is a close relationship of collaboration with the Revenue Agency, with the National Labour Inspectorate, the Financial Guard and other supervisory authorities and, therefore, a synergistic action is being taken between the administrations of the State that is bringing out the black work of those who have tried anyway to ask for the income of citizenship, even if - as President Tridico says - the majority of those who work in black do not apply for the income of citizenship. Evidently, our message that we would be very strict and that we have the technology to do the checks was served, because most of those who work in black did not apply for citizenship income. I repeat that these are not my words, but of the President of the INPS. In particular, the INPS has indicated to the Finance Guard 600,000 beneficiaries, whose risk profiles will be examined, and will identify a small part that will then be subject to further checks. I would like to say one more thing to my colleague and to the whole House. The scams are always there. So what do we do? We eliminate the New Employment Social Insurance (Naspi) because there are scams? Do we eliminate disability benefits because there are false invalids? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, Italians are also this. The scams are always there. Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). That's not true! Shame on you! GIROTTO, rapporteur. Are scams never there? I am informed that scams in Italy do not exist. Great. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] I'm very happy with that. Scams exist all over the world. The important thing is to have a law that punishes scammers and we have done the law to help the weak and punish the scammers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] Mr Centinario also spoke about the fact that we did not accept the amendments on agriculture. In this respect, I can only give him the same answer as I gave to my colleague in relation to the income of citizenship. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Time. GIROTTO, rapporteur. Agriculture is not the subject of this decree-law, otherwise it would have become an omnibus. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Many Members have spoken on the issue of the end of waste. This is an amendment introduced by the Commissions themselves. The amendment was passed to the first signature of the President of the Moronese Environment Commission and, instead, no other similar amendments have passed, but different on the same subject, on which we have expressed a negative opinion. I shall skip the technical part about why we rejected the amendment, but I have already passed it on to my colleague, Mr Toffanin. Therefore, you may possibly ask her or me. I can pass it to you quietly. I just want to reassure all my colleagues that we do not put an end to the end of the matter of waste. With this amendment we certainly solve the emergency of the companies that were receiving, indeed, that had already received, by autoguard from the Provinces, the withdrawal of authorisations. So, surely we block emergencies and give way, to the whole chain that was already working, to continue working. In our opinion, we also make sure that new initiatives of circular economy are launched. As President of the Industry Commission - therefore, the circular economy is absolutely in my power - I assure you that I have been talking to all stakeholders for months on this sector and I will continue to talk to us for the next few months until they tell me that everything is all right. And if it's not all right, we'll intervene. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u94	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the measure specifically, as the rapporteur, Mr Girotto, has done, which I thank for having pointed out on time elements in the debate and for having also illustrated on the substance every single passage of the decree-law under discussion. There is very often talk of transition, especially in the area of economic development: energy transition, ecological transition, digital transition. This decree-law is also, in some way, transitional. Born with a government, today it is converted by a different majority. Perhaps for this reason too, today's debate, despite certain moments of fair political opposition, has nevertheless highlighted the fact that there are elements of unity throughout the House and within the framework of all political forces on some passages of the decree-law. It could be done better and more could be done. This is always true, and on every measure. I agree with Mr Errani when he says that the issue of business crises is not resolved and that the text we are debating today is not over. That's absolutely true. I take advantage of this, because it is one of the two issues that I would like to address in this brief reply, to say that, in recent weeks, on several occasions both in the House and in the Senate, I have answered a few questions instantly on various corporate crises. I have provided some data and elements that I would also like to bring to this House's collective contribution, because I think it is important to clarify certain aspects. The first aspect is that there is no procedure for identifying a corporate crisis at Mise. We're talking about the famous tables. There is no procedure for which the table opens, the table takes place and closes it, precisely because, very often, the Mise arrives tables of crisis that on the territories cannot be managed by the Regions: either because the plants involved have different locations on the national territory or because the dimension of the crisis needs some interventions of the Ministry of economic development; and this before that crisis moves from one side to the other of Via Veneto and ends, in this case from my colleague Catalfo, or, however, to the Ministry of Labour, where the protection measures are put in place, which are, however, welfare measures and certainly not those that have to do with economic development. I say this because, of the about 150 crisis tables, many (over 70 percent) are monitoring, where a crisis has been solved that is monitored over time, in order to be able to intervene at the right time, in case again the market establishes that a product, which is in production, a productive element or a production chain have a time of difficulty linked to the market. Then the Ministry of Economic Development tries to put in place the elements it possesses - at this moment unfortunately few - to prevent crisis situations such as the one I am describing. And I say that because I believe it is clear to everyone that there is no willingness on the part of any Minister to intensify a corporate crisis. It is not my will today, it was not that of those who preceded me, neither in the previous legislature nor in the XVI or XV. There is no Minister for Economic Development who enjoys seeing a company shut down. This must be clear and we must take away the debate that is present from the political debate in the strict sense. We need to identify the tools that enable the Minister of Economic Development to anticipate business crises: only in this way will we be able to solve the problem of crises and tables, only when we have a carnet of possible solutions for the different cases that may concern the market, the production sector and the individual company. Therefore, only if we have a series of solutions and tools available before we reach the spiral of a vortex that then - as I said before - leads that crisis to move across the street, towards the Ministry of Labour, we can act in time to save those companies, those businesses, those entrepreneurs, those workers. Why am I thinking about crisis tables? Article 12 - in my view - is at the heart of the measure, in the area of business crises. I do not believe in man only at the command of either the superheroes or the possibility, regardless of who he is, that a single person or a microstructure can solve the many crises that we face every day. I believe that having finally created at the Ministry of Economic Development a structure that, in addition to having additional tools available - as I hope will soon happen - to deal with crises, also has a physical structure of people, skills and skills to be made available to companies in difficulty, is the first step to finally tackle seriously the issue of crisis tables. I have heard a few examples mentioned earlier, such as Whirlpool. I remember, however, that there are cases like Mercone Uno, Embraco, Blutec or Alitalia that are open and come back cyclically, perhaps because they have not been dealt with in the right way, but I think above all because you don't always have the tools to deal with them. Regardless of who leads the Ministry of Economic Development - I repeat that I will never believe that he voluntarily wants to bring down a productive sector or a company or create a crisis in the sector - perhaps we should think about the tools that we have at our disposal. There is a second topic that I obviously want to address - in the way I believe it is expected, and to which I do not escape - and that is the need for our country finally to have a serious industrial plan: I want to make it clear that there cannot be one within this country without steel production. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]] The Government must ensure adequate steel production. An agenda was adopted in the Commission and voted in favour of by the Government, containing in itself important elements that I undertake to pursue as the Ministry of Economic Development and on behalf of the Government. We believe that we can find that point of balance that Senator Collina mentioned earlier, namely the possibility - also through a retechnologization of the plants, which we will always do in agreement with those who manage them and produce, without making unilateral choices - to hold together the production capacity and give employment responses with the impossibility of continuing a road that has sickened a population. I believe that these elements are able to be together in an overall reasoning that we will have to do together with the company whose representatives I will meet in the next few hours. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]] I believe, however, that we must speed up the response to all the fabric of Taranto, to that area so tormented. I believe that the permanent institutional table for Taranto must deal with the issues ahead with greater speed and incisiveness, because the people involved can no longer wait. I believe that there must be a common effort to ensure that the projects and ideas we have for that territory finally become reality, in order to respond to its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Bressa.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u96	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u97	Mr President, I rise to ask for a suspension of work until 8 p.m. for the presentation of the maxi amendment, on which we would like to raise the question of trust, which is currently being evaluated by the General Accounting Office of the State. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bravo! Bravo! Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. I therefore request a recess until 8 p.m. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you for being there! [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u99	You have the floor, if your colleagues will allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u100	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. It was a little overwhelmed by applause and, therefore, I did not understand if the Minister said that he would put his trust in it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You got it right. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). But I didn't understand when. I didn't hear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister has requested a suspension. Therefore, I am allowing you to speak before you suspend the sitting. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). That is exactly the point I wanted to make. We, who were also in opposition to the previous Government, have strongly contested the habit not only of asking for confidence at all levels, but also of leaving the Assembly waiting for the famous boiling, of this and that, but, in reality, of the necessary time to put the Government in agreement. But at least that happened after a while. This is the first measure of this government. [[Applause from the FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] We have not yet examined a measure that already puts trust. And patience. But I ask Senator Marcucci, who so vehemently insisted that there were... [[Applause from the FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP groups. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u101	Senator La Russa, speak to the presidency, not to my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u102	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). ...so that there would be certain times, if with me he wants to ask the government for certain times for this incredible confidence in the first measure. [[Applause from the FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP groups. Comments from the PD Group]] If this is the new government, it is much worse than the old and - I believe - always for the same part that remained in the government. There was before and there is today, with the expense of PD, that it must understand whether or not it changes the idea about the times. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you - and this is the reason for my speech - to offer the senators reasonably certain times, so that the deep disagreements of this Government may compose themselves and bring us the text of the sub-amendment or amendment on which they are asking, already today, to vote the first of a long series of confidences. [[Applause from the FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u103	I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u106	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I too would like to stress the habit of using trust, which is criticized in others but then practiced. I would also like to add that once - I am referring to the governments chaired by Silvio Berlusconi - we could not trust a text which had not been approved by the Commission. It was undoubtedly a constraint on those majorities, but perhaps it was also an advantage for Parliament's work, because the government is evidently contemplating putting trust in a text other than that approved by the Commission. It would be more convenient to have this constraint, so at least we are working seriously in the Commission; otherwise, if one text is proposed in the Commission and another is brought to Parliament, it is not respectful of Parliament's prerogatives and the transparency of its work. Parliament's prerogatives are the prerogatives of the citizens to be able to see the measures and their individual parts discussed with those who vote for and those who vote against and not a single block in which there is confusion and who does not understand what they want. That is why I agree with Senator La Russa's request for reasonable deadlines, because a postponement until 8 p.m. means that, at that time, they will deposit the text on which the trust will be placed, follow the debate and end at midnight. If there is this understanding, say so. But I think it would be more serious to say at once what is likely to be said at 8 p.m., namely that we vote tomorrow. You have all night to work; I hope to save you a few hours to even sleep, because maybe when you're awake you work better. But make a reasonable request. Do not make the requests in pieces so at 8 p.m. you again ask for a postponement at 10 p.m. and then tomorrow morning, hoping that that will be enough. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u109	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have less experience than my previous colleagues who have highlighted some critical issues. Being one of the last arrived, with all humility I just see the glass half full, and that is the fact that this government asks for confidence means that it presumes to have it and perhaps this for the minority of the country is good news [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u110	I am suspending the sitting until 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.06 p.m. and resumed at 20.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u111	I communicate that at 7.30 p.m. the Conference of the Leaders was held, which established that the Senate will return to meet again tomorrow, at 10 a.m., with the continuation of the discussion of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law of 3 September 2019, n. 101, with urgent provisions for the protection of work and for the resolution of corporate crises. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u114	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt an important measure on the protection of work and the resolution of corporate crises. By an unexpected coincidence, I am speaking in this House on a case which, in some respects, is part of the same scenario. It has shaken national public opinion in recent days, the news from Calabria of the dismissal of 52 people - mothers and fathers of families mostly single-income - full-time or part-time employees since the mid-nineties of a hypermarket in the northern outskirts of Crotone (shop so far linked, through franchising, to the Carrefour group). The scandal lies not in the dismissal - that almost no longer makes news given the frequency with which similar facts, in itself very serious, are repeated - but in the double mortification of having been fired - or, better, put on forced holidays, but without prospect of returning to the commercial exercise, where the utilities have been cut and on 25 October will trigger the eviction - and, in addition, of having received the news through a message WhatsApp sent by the Lametino entrepreneur who had in dense license and local and who now corrects the shooting talking about reduction of the staff, instead of collective dismissal. The message was sent to the former staff manager, who, moreover, is one of the employees of the Carrefour Market who, having his wife employed in the same shop, suddenly saw both sources of income that his family could rely on. Colleagues, I remember that in Crotone, the capital of Calabria that aggregate only 28 municipalities, the unemployment - especially youth, but not only - is very high, even higher than that of the rest of the Region, so much so that the perceptions of citizenship income are 2,822, compared to about 60,000 inhabitants, against the 2.828 of Cosenza, which however has a population close to 70,000. Therefore, the loss of 52 jobs in Crotone - I would add, however, that the whole community, the institutions and the Carrefour group are moving to avoid it, while the workers are in protest at the outside of the shed - is a tragedy of far greater proportions than the arithmetic says, nor the precariousness of the work can be considered a solution, rather than a breach of the system. Speaking in this Chamber at the Carrefour Market in Crotone is a simple tribute, for my part, almost a modest moral compensation to my fellow citizens, whose dignity, frankly, has been trampled beyond the legitimate. We will have to act in other places - of course - in order to guarantee them the preservation of their jobs, but I think it is important to publicly stigmatize an episode to which everyone's consciences are rightly rebelled - and fortunately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u117	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, let us save the Bellini theatre: this is the cry from Catania, from Sicily as a whole; the call of artists, intellectuals and citizens, who today, on behalf of all Sicilian colleagues, want to get out of this Chamber as well. The situation of the Bellini theatre is very serious: regional funding for the theatre has increased in about twenty years from 44 million to 12 million, up to the current 8 million, with dramatic forecasts for 2020 and 2021. The Region for 2019 has allocated 11.6 million euros, for 2020 has allocated 8.9 million and for 2021 has allocated zero euros. That's right: the Musumeci Regional Government has withdrawn all contributions to one of the most important Sicilian theatres. The Bellini is a theater of tradition, which is already unusual because it is unique to have stable artistic masses, which receives from the FUS a minimum share of about 1.2 million euros. If we consider that the fixed expenditure for staff (including eighty orchestral and sixty chorists) is about 12 million and that to this we add the utilities, we arrive to a requirement of 13,4 million euros. Without adding any other production expenditure, the budget is likely to be in surplus for both 2019 and 2020. It is immediately apparent that the ax of closure is imminent, already today, because with these numbers it is impossible for the theatre to draw up a three-year budget which - as we know - by law must be in balance. The Bellini, active since 1890, stopped its activity only during the two world wars. So, with short intermezzo, the theatre in Catania was a garrison of culture and - allow me - of legality on the Sicilian territory. Today the desperate cry of the workers, of the artistic director, cannot remain unheard. The cry of culture that wants to survive must not remain unheard. The closure of the Bellini theatre must be absolutely averted, both to ensure a working future for the dozens of workers who work there, and not to erase the memory and history of one of the most important theatres in Sicily. From this very Chamber I want to make an appeal to the regional government to restore the funds for the theatre and, above all, to stop the deafening silence that in these days dominates the sound of the orchestra and the choir that, despite the difficulties, are continuing to alternate on the stage of Bellini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u120	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the wave of bad weather in the south of Piedmont, particularly in the province of Alexandria, and it has caused the death of a taxi driver whose family pain we are close to, just as we are to all the populations seriously affected by it. The damage generated is enormous enough to be able to define it, without half a word, an emergency in the emergency. We have come from a complicated, difficult summer in which particularly complicated phenomena have occurred: water bombs and severe floods. Piedmont continues to respond in an excellent way. All areas at risk are chaired by civil protection groups operating throughout the territory. We have a special mention today of those who are committed, namely men and women of civil protection, who have been engaged in these hours since the early morning with perseverance and perseverance. First of all, safety comes, and I want to reiterate this with my fellow Senators from Piedmont. First of all, the safety of the citizens comes and our gratitude goes also to the many volunteers and operators of the Red Cross who throughout the territory hit by the bad weather are working tirelessly to give support to the affected population. In Piedmont, Serravalle Scrivia, dozens of people spent the night in the elderly center, where volunteers of the Italian Red Cross distributed basic necessities and provided social and health care. Warm meals were distributed and beds and blankets were offered and psychological support activities for displaced persons were guaranteed. It is right, therefore, as well as necessary and strictly necessary to ask for the state of calamity, as today the President of the Piedmont Region has reiterated. And it is also necessary to ensure the safety of people, until the emergency has returned. The emergency, however, continues, as the storms and the fragility of the territory continue: for all these reasons an immediate, strong and concrete intervention by the Government will be indispensable, slimming down also all that bureaucracy, to allow us to safeguard the so-called riverbeds and make sure to restore the path of the waters, when serious problems arise such as those just described. Finally, a special mention goes to the mayors, to the local administrators, to all those who engage in the territory and to all those voluntary associations that are giving themselves free of charge, to which we are close. Above all, however, we are asking the government to make an important effort at this moment, because we must immediately move from words to deeds, without having to worry about helping the citizens of Piedmont, and Alexandrians in particular, who are in difficulty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Pichetto Fratin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u123	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor to bring to the attention of the House what happened on the other night: a sabotage of silos from the social cellar "Antica Cantina" of San Severo and the cellar "Father Pio" of Torremaggiore, which caused the pouring into the countryside of about 40,000 hectolitres of wine and must, causing an estimated damage in almost EUR 2 million. It is an ignoble gesture, an intimidating act, which wounds the entire community of the territory: decent people, farmers, farmers and entrepreneurs, who have done and make work an instrument of growth, for a land that knows well the difficulties of doing business. I express all my solidarity and closeness to those wine-growers here too. For us representatives of the institutions, it is always necessary to pay close attention to the demands for more effective protection and security put forward by the agricultural sector. We cannot allow cowardly criminals, who make fear and intimidation an instrument of power and control, to continue to disturb the activities of those who, with enormous sacrifices, try to build a better future for the territory, for the people and for families. Tomorrow in the Prefecture, in Foggia, will be present the provincial summits of the Forces of the order, as well as the legal representatives of the companies, besides the representatives of the associations of category. I therefore hope that those responsible will soon be brought to justice and that such incidents will no longer have to be repeated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-157.ana.u125	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 October, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.14 p.m.
