ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 31 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. Colleagues, as you know, the Conference of Leaders is under way. I therefore suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference. (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as is sadly known, this night an explosion destroyed a farmhouse in Quargnento, in the province of Alexandria, causing the death of three firefighters and the injury of two other firemen and a policeman. The victims are Matteo Gastaldo, Marco Triches, both of Alexandria, and Antonino Candido of Reggio Calabria. Investigations are under way to ascertain the causes and the real dynamics of such a serious and devastating event. According to some sources, the explosion could be traced back to an act of arson, a circumstance that would make even more disconcerting the tragedy that struck the Firefighters' Corps. Our thoughts go to all those who carry out surveillance activities on the territory and put their lives at the service of the security and serenity of the citizens. In expressing the condolences of the Senate of the Republic for the victims and the closeness and solidarity to the wounded involved in the tragic event, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, decided that on Thursday 7 November, at 4.30 p.m., the Minister for Economic Development would make information on the situation of the Ilva company with subsequent interventions by the representatives of the Groups for 10 minutes each. With regard to the work of the first standing Commission, the beginning of the discussion on the decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries is postponed until tomorrow morning. The President's communications on the content of the draft budget law, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, will take place tomorrow in relation to the work of the Budget Committee. Thursday afternoon's question time at 3 p.m. will be attended by the Ministers for the Environment, Cultural Heritage, Equal Opportunities and the Family.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u7	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak on the subject which has been the subject of the Conference of Leaders, which we are calling for precisely for this reason, namely the announcement of the withdrawal of ArcelorMittal due to the elimination of the criminal shield, which is likely to cause an industrial damage of considerable proportions to our country, on which, as has been pointed out at the meeting of the Leaders, we have no intention of making instrumental political polemics. We're interested in the problem, we're distressed. We believe that the issue is not being dealt with with with the due seriousness, we believe that there must be not only seriousness but also respect for a sector but above all for people who have believed in the trusts assumed by a government that cannot hide behind the fact that it is not the same Government. The President of the Council has announced to us that he is in the process of receiving, or in any case to meet the representatives of ArcelorMittal and tells us that he intends to protest vigorously with respect to the decision to withdraw an industry that has, however, been entrusted and has in turn given of the entrusts, has in turn given of the economic-financial availability, in addition to the 4 billion euros and the guarantee of a plan of reclamation and requalifies for us fundamental for the realization of the environmental plan. All this, President and colleagues, has been crystallized in a contract containing a negotiation agreement that has bound our Government not only to the company and the ArcelorMittal industry, which must guarantee the continuation of a crucial sector for us that is the steel industry, in which we are leader in the world - we have exceeded Germany - but also to all the employees (more than 1,200) that ArcelorMittal has undertaken to assume on the basis of this contract. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people, and that is why we would never allow ourselves to do this political exploitation, but what the government is doing at the moment is worrying us dramatically, because it is failing to agree to a negotiation agreement with a company that has guaranteed the maintenance of steel production in our country, which represents a point and a half of GDP, which represents at least 24 billion of input, which represents work for 20,000 people directly and for 40,000 people in its definition of induced. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that in order to talk about this, with all due respect for Mr D'Incà, who has given his willingness... LANNUTTI (M5S). He's Minister! BERNINI (FI-BP). Excuse me, it was a horrible refutation, for which I deeply apologise. With all due respect for Minister D'Incà, who gave the Government's willingness, and for Minister Patuanelli, who, in turn, gave his willingness to come and report at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, colleagues, I ask you: what should he say if the Government, in the person of ministers Bellanova and Costa, is already saying two different things? We need the President of the Council! We want the President of the Council, we want the only person who can guarantee the unity of political direction of the Government. For this reason we have requested the Conference of Leaders; for this reason we ask all of you to support our request to have here, tomorrow, the President of the Council after the meeting with the leaders of ArcelorMittal, on which depends the life or death of a sector, which will determine the life or death of a territory, the South, but also of all Italy, because the crisis of the South means the crisis of the whole country. In the face of a subject of this gravity, which has been dealt with so superficially, I apologise to my colleagues because I do not want to make political exploitation. [[Comments of the M5S Group]] But it is terribly superficial to vote for the removal of the criminal shield, which you have granted under certain conditions, and then to table an amendment to put it back. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, this is terribly instrumental, this is absolutely shameful, not only towards the employees and the induced of Ilva, but towards the Italian citizens, who are once again betrayed in their trust. We call here once again for the person who says he is always available to come and who will be a President of the Council who, in the Italian Renaissance that he promised us with his programmatic statements, will always be willing to confront Parliament. When, if not in the face of such a serious situation, will it be even more so in the following? Because, ladies and gentlemen, a point and a half of GDP in the South means impoverishment of the South, the Centre and the North, which we cannot afford as we are now. Colleagues, if we lose Ilva, we lose at least 24 billion, which is exactly the amount needed to stop the increase in VAT, sterilizing the clauses. We do not know whether the Government will actually stop the increase in VAT and sterilize the clauses, but it is certainly stopping Ilva and this - I repeat - we cannot afford it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are waiting for you here, as you promised, to clarify a situation that only you can clarify. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u10	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as the Lega Group, we join in the proposal tabled by Mr Bernini, on behalf of Forza Italia, to express our disappointment and the failure to approve the timetable because we too would have liked the President-in-Office of the Council here tomorrow to take responsibility for a dramatic affair for our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As you tell the press that they will safeguard jobs, come to this House and tell us how and above all we want a commitment from this House: we do not need general information, just to tell us what happened. We want a commitment, an act of clear direction that comes from this House, to ensure that there really is a response to those 10,000, 12,000, 14,000, more than 20,000 workers if we also look at the induced that, today as today, they are experiencing moments of great difficulty. The serious issue is not so much the fact that it can be exploited or not; there could also be an instrumentalization. The fact is that, about two weeks ago, in this House - and I remember one of my comments on the subject - the League had pointed out the need to be careful to remove the miniscudo, which was a common sense action, the right mediation that the League, when it was in the government, had found between the maxiscudo Renziano and the nothing wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] The mini-scude served to realize the environmental plan and we had told all of you to be careful because, if it had been removed, there would have been the risk of a disengagement from ArcelorMittal, and consequently that the company could close, with the consequences of the case for the workers. This was our intervention, so you were warned beforehand: be careful, don't make this mistake, find a political solution now, because then it can be too late. Some of you said that the company was hiding behind the question of the shield, because it had already decided for a long time the disengagement, a question that today has been confirmed according to the statements of Minister Patuanelli. However, on that occasion, we had told all of you that, even if it had been so - let's say that really Minister Patuanelli was right, that the mini-scude was simply a pretext, because in reality there was already disengagement - providing him with the alibi would have been even more serious. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is what we have said in this House! Therefore, ours has not been an opposition on that measure - you remember well - of a obstructive type; indeed, we have tried, starting from the riders, up to all the other enterprises, (Whirlpool and so on), to give the right advice and suggestions, after all the effort that had been made to arrive at that solution of common sense. For to rule serves the revolution of common sense! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What the League has demonstrated in all the months it has ruled, using the brain, ensuring that the right to health could go hand in hand with the right to work, which is fundamental. These were our words, but you really screwed them; you voted for confidence because there was a risk that the government might even skip and today, indeed yesterday we had the confirmation of all the doubts and perplexities that we had highlighted. So, we told you this and, despite that, you went on the same, banging against the wall and today we are here talking about a serious topic: this is the theme that we must emphasize. That decree-law, as it was put in place - and it is clearly written - brings article 14, which was the solution: it is absurd to provide the alibi or even to give a multinational the opportunity to go and invest somewhere else, perhaps doing the favor of some other European country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's even worse! Then have the dignity, after that vote, which is firm, clear and clear - do not run away from this - to come to this House and vote on a resolution to ensure that there really is a clear political direction to save the former Ilva and to ensure that investment is genuinely maintained and workers are protected. But unfortunately, in today's conference of group leaders, you did not have this courage either, because you are ashamed, you are hiding. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Send Mr Patuanelli here, whom we love very much, but it is Count who must come to this House. It is President Conte, who always loves to parliamentariansize everything. Do you remember? He has always said that Parliament is the place where we have to debate, where we have to deal with the problems. In your confidence speech, did you say you wanted to save the Mezzogiorno? Is this how you save the Mezzogiorno? Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Senator Grimani's comments.]] Don't do anything wrong, Senator. You know I always have respect from everyone. We don't do anything wrong in this House. Grimani (IV-PSI). But what kind of gimmicks? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). If I've seen it wrong, I'm sorry, I don't want to argue, but let me finish. It is true that I should address the Presidency; do not call me back, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm never gonna make them look bad. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). For these reasons, we call for President Conte to come and report to the House tomorrow, immediately after the 11 o'clock meeting with ArcelorMittal. It would really be a sign of transparency and willingness to deal with problems using the communication tool. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Take your responsibilities. Set the matter in the majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] When we were in the government, I heard many times, from the Democratic Party, about the protection of companies and work. In the end, though, what happens? After all you have said about citizenship income, in light of the numbers that have emerged you have voted for a maneuver that contains citizenship income. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] MATRISCIAN (M5S). What's that got to do with anything? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). You really have a capacity to change your positions. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, can I finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, speak to me. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Do we speculate on the poor? Have you seen the data on citizenship income? Ask yourself a few questions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Get some. Look above all at the data related to Pomigliano d'Arco! I repeat: ask yourself a few questions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, with responsibility, have the courage to come here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Nencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u13	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, this issue is extremely serious and important, firstly because it concerns a large steel plant - the largest in Europe - and the largest in the Mezzogiorno. The subject is also extremely serious and important because the steel industry is at the heart of Italian industry. If a global competitive metal industry has developed in Italy, which also expresses the first voice of the Italian economy and exports, it is because it has been able to support the Italian steel industry which was the first in Europe. If it closed the former Ilva di Taranto, it would not only close a company that, in that area of the South, employs more than 10,000 people and their families and the supply chains of the pipeline, but would result in a negative impact on other Italian iron and steel plants - I am thinking of that of Novi Ligure - as well as a fatal blow for a large part of the Italian metal industry. For this reason it is so important to safeguard that plant and the production chain that is downstream. For this very reason, a few days ago, we raised the issue in this Assembly, expressly asking the senators - specifically those of the Democratic Party - not to endorse the instrumental blackmail of a part of the Movimento 5 Star Group, all the more so in the face of a measure that had been born in the previous Government, except for understanding - expression of it was the minister of labour and social policies, as well as the economic development of Di Maio - and then to be endorsed by the next Government and, therefore, by the Assembly. At that moment we had asked and highlighted the importance of maintaining that mini shield that had been developed and agreed with the company. We also pointed out that the company could seize the opportunity and justification to go back on its steps and give up the investment. Moreover, everyone in this House knows, especially those who study industrial culture, that the Indian company had thought to make that investment as an alternative to other groups, always Indian, because Italian steel companies are appealing to the tycoons of the Indian steel industry, in their competition - I might say war - within their own country for the conquest of the European market, starting with Italian production. As everyone knows, in recent months there has been a war in Italy between those who wanted to grab Terni's industry, those who wanted to grab Lucchini and those who wanted to grab Ilva. In that competition, international partners have two alternatives: to buy a factory to produce or buy a factory to close it. The ArcelorMittal group had chosen to buy the factory to produce. But to the same group it is also okay that the plant closes, because it is a way to eliminate a competitor. As all those who study the globalization of industrial phenomena know, when they want to buy something - I mean for example the Whirlpool group, which is the subject of the same decree-law - they do it either to acquire a production site and to become more powerful or to prevent that production site from being bought by competitors; so it is better to buy it, to prevent competitors from doing it. Sometimes you buy it - I am referring also to the case Whirlpool - to close the plant, favouring the plants that the same group has in other countries. We fell into the Indian trap as far as Taranto's Ilva is concerned. Whose responsibility is it? It is of many, probably today in the same Count Government. We believe that it is necessary - as asked yesterday by the leaders of my Group of the Brothers of Italy, Lollobrigida in the Chamber and Ciriani in the Senate - that Conte report in the Chamber immediately, with a communication that allows her to express herself and to give an industrial policy address on the measure in question and on that company, which concerns the entire Italian industry and must not be debilitated by accident, because it is not. It is the result of a lack of industrial culture or, better, a culture against industry that pervades large parts of this Parliament and the majority and undermines national interest, economic development and therefore employment, and not only in the Mezzogiorno. Clarification is absolutely necessary: it must be done by the President-in-Office of the Council in this House and with a debate leading to a conclusion and, therefore, to a vote by the House. I believe that this is directly - I do not use words at random - for the protection of the same majority and the same government. We are waiting for Conte, with a shred of responsibility, to come here and tell us why he underestimated what happened two weeks ago, in view of what we had said in this House and that anyone who can read the news of this country had predicted it would happen. There is a guilty responsibility of the Government in accessing ideological blackmail, burning national interest on it, which in this field is more evident than ever. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u16	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am glad that this sitting is taking place, since we had heard statements from Senator Salvini yesterday that he would have arrived here and would have interrupted the work of the House if President Conte had not presented himself. This is the second time that has happened, Mr President, and I expect the third, at least the third, to have a response from the Presidency. We have already had to suffer the fact that the senators, in the middle of the summer, had to raise their butts to come here and take care of a session that we then know how it ended. Now we have heard that Salvini would, indeed threatened on social media that this session would never have to be held if President Conte had not been there. Mr Calderoli, I think you should speak as Vice-President of the Senate so that there are no such statements. After that, Senator Romeo missed the opportunity to make us as a whole as an Assembly of a theme that we all say in words to consider a national heritage, that is, Ilva: then, when it comes to dealing with it, everyone builds propaganda and exploitation. I say this because, if Senator Romeo had informed himself and had read the contract that ArcelorMittal has at the moment, he would have seen that there is no obligation or clause regarding the issue of immunity for administrators and, therefore, the shield. There is therefore no company - ArcelorMittal - that decides to leave because this Parliament has decided to change the contractual conditions; instead, there is a private individual who decides to go away skiplessly and freely, using the pretext of the shield that is no longer there: the fact that there is no contractual agreement, however, is in matters and is concrete. On this I think it is necessary to make the evaluation, because, if ArcelorMittal goes away and does so failing the contractual agreement that he has with the State, I expect from the League, the PD, Italy Viva, Forza Italia and the Movimento 5 Stars that all together say that ArcelorMittal is not respecting the commitments. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]] Therefore, if ArcelorMittal does not comply with the commitments, there is a withdrawal and pays for failing to make a commitment: following that withdrawal there are very onerous penalties to pay to the State; we must all say it together. A minute later, we will have to figure out who will replace ArcelorMittal, because of course - in our opinion and according to the law - there is a second that he had participated, so we have to look to see if we can move forward on that investment. Since the action to be taken by the League, on the other hand, is to exploit the event more than to deal with the problem, we have had to listen to Senator Romeo inventing the story that, if President Conte does not come to this House, nothing can be resolved. Mr President, we are of the opinion that Mr Patuanelli is coming, who is the Minister who has made a commitment with this Parliament to address this issue. [[Comments of Senator Ripamonti]] , regardless of what is written in the provision that has been approved without the shield; let us tell you how it will go forward: tomorrow the meeting with the private, ArcelorMittal, will take place, and we will discover the intentions of the company. I repeat that, if this one were to unilaterally decide to stop the commitment made with our country - with Italy, not with Conte or with a political force - and fail there, it would have to proceed to hit a company that, after taking the responsibility to go ahead with the investment and having built the conditions to safeguard 15,000 jobs, besides the environmental conversion, says that it is no longer so. On this I think we must all be united. In conclusion, Mr President, in the light of this premise, in order to avoid any pretext, it is necessary for Mr Patuanelli to come and report here. I also remind the League of being the political force that first removed the shield from the decree-law growth; provision that therefore was brought to the Chamber without it, on the indication of the League itself, which was then to the Government. [[Applause from Senator Garavini. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I understand that Romeo forgets this, as he forgets that he voted in favour of citizenship income and now blames this majority on the fact that there is that measure. He also forgot to remove the shield in the growing decree on Ilva. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Since, however, now we must not give any pretexts to anyone, I challenge the League: there is a provision in question in the Chamber, the tax decree, and there is the possibility of intervening to remove any pretext to ArcerolMittal. So instead of standing here whining... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; instead of sitting here chatting and demanding that Count come to the Assembly, we do not understand to make that, the League votes in favour of our amendment to the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No. 124 of 2019, presented to the House, and we move forward. Since, unfortunately, it will be discovered that ArcerolMittal's corporate strategy, regardless of everything, is to go away, we political forces must, all together, responsibly, if you want to solve the problem, understand how to make up for this decision, besides of course to sue a company that has failed to all the commitments made. Mr President, we are in favour of the timetable and the presence of Mr Patuanelli in the Chamber, who - we repeat - is the institutional figure who has followed this issue also in the relationship with Parliament and owes us an answer. We asked for the presence of the Minister when the conversion of the decree-law on corporate crises was approved; we asked that he return to the Assembly and the Minister made a commitment to an ad hoc measure on Ilva: Let's hear it. If it is necessary to hear also Count, we will hear him; it is instrumental, however, to make the continuation of the debate subject to the presence of the President of the Council. Since we must take care of the workers, who are at risk of work, we cannot deal with the exploitation of Romeo and the League. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u19	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for calling the Conference of Leaders, in which we were able to address this issue, which was raised by the Democratic Party with the written request, which we sent to you today, to request the presence of President Conte in this House, to report on such an important affair for the whole country, for our economy and perhaps also for Europe as a whole. Obviously we are talking not only about the economy, but also about the health of our citizens, so the issue is very sensitive. All the political forces present in this House have shown themselves to be sensitive and, therefore, I am delighted to make an appeal to all of us for responsibility: we cannot joke about the people of Taranto; we cannot joke about the workers of the former Ilva. These are such sensitive and important issues, which concern thousands of families, that I believe is at least due to seriousness. Precisely because the seriousness is guiding us, we have asked President Conte to come and report to the House, because the situation is serious and needs to be addressed. President Conte cannot come this week, but we are happy that Minister Patuanelli comes, that - I remember - he is the Minister who has decided to accept the agenda in this House at my first signature, signed by all the majority group leaders, who had precisely the objective of guaranteeing the commitment of the Government, with - I believe - the support of the whole Parliament, so that that productive activity could be healed in environmental terms and continue to produce steel, important and strategic for our country. So let us welcome Patuanelli's timetable and commitment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Parliament has the need, on such an important issue, to be constantly and adequately informed and to take the necessary measures, including regulatory measures, to ensure that the commitments on that agenda are maintained and that the objectives are achieved. I am pleased that President Romeo has decided on a critical review of his political work, including his recent decisions and his votes in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I repeat here what I also supported at the meeting of the Leaders, precisely because I think that on a matter such as that of Ilva should - it is an appeal that will obviously fall into the void - to avoid exploitation operations. The story of Ilva - you all know it perfectly - is very complex and delicate and it is certainly linked to the problem of thousands of jobs. But I would like to remind myself first and then this House that there is a huge problem that affects thousands of patients and thousands of people, including children, who have suffered a devastating health impact. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and M5S Groups]] It is such a huge and complex problem that so many Ilva decrees have been issued so far, of which we have lost count. And when I say that, you all know that. If we had in our pocket the wonderful project and the desire for conversion, which accelerated the environmental recovery plan through an advanced technological operation, it is clear that we would not be here. There are many issues related to the story that I too personally would like to clarify: for example, I wonder why Mittal was chosen and not the other roped one, since there was talk of decarbonization, while here things are a bit different. Today we need to know exactly what the situation is like. You know perfectly well that, even before the business measure came into the Chamber and before we even began to discuss the substance of the amendments and the abolition of the criminal shield - on this then return - Mittal made a unilateral act: not only for weeks he had been announcing other redundancies and Cassa Integrazione for 5,000 people, but he did an act whose meaning was very clear to everyone. I am talking about the appointment of a CEO who, wherever he went, has only cut heads and closed offices; he certainly has not started any rehabilitation operations, nor has he started to restore production. We know perfectly well that everything that is happening and the path of the criminal shield are only and only an alibi. If we can then tell it all, that criminal shield had not really been removed, because in all the stratification of the regulations had remained a part of immunity. What did they complain about? After the death of the worker in the oven, the magistrates of Taranto intervened. Do you think we can predict a criminal shield on the deaths at work? You know perfectly well that this is not possible and you have also excluded it from the norm. Then I believe that it is necessary that Minister Patuanelli comes to report, also because he followed the story and also met that CEO, to take stock of the affair of the contract and the history of the rent of the plants. Information should be provided. Obviously this does not exhaust the issue because, if we had solved the problem of Ilva through information and parliamentary debate, perhaps they would not have passed in vain all these years. This is without prejudice to the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council can too - and will certainly - come here to bring further elements. If we are a responsible Assembly, which really cares about the fate not only of the workers, but of all the citizens of that area and of Taranto, we must listen with responsibility to the information of Minister Patuanelli and then see how the situation will evolve. In a serious country, beyond the exploitations, this should be at everyone's heart and we should not allow everyone to bounce the matter over the other. On the matter of Ilva, I think no one will be able to say that they didn't put yours in it. All the more so, I believe that we should all, with tranquillity and a sense of responsibility, wait for the information and then everyone - we too - will have the opportunity to take their own initiatives. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u25	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Before any other assessment, I would like to say that I have always been against immunity, the criminal shield, for a matter of legality and the rule of law, and I must thank the League, because it is thanks to them that we abolished the criminal shield at the former Ilva. So, thank you! [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] My position on this has never changed and I can say that I have many witnesses, both in Taranto and in Italy, of the fact that I have always fought against the abomination of having to choose whether to starve or die of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am fully aware that there is a problem, but I also know that different ways can be taken to solve it. And think, I even agree with Senator Pharaoh when he says that political forces must be put together without schizophrenia, without going back on what this Parliament has done twice, first with the League and then with the PD: abolishing the criminal shield. Among other things, there are many lawyers in this House and they are well aware that Article 51 of the Criminal Code makes those who comply with an order from an authority not punishable. In this case, the environmental plan, which was issued by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, does not give rise to any malpractice if the environmental plan is to be observed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I also need to respond to ArcelorMittal - and I hope that Minister Patuanelli will stress this too - about the fact that in recent hours many observers, commentators, journalists and politicians have given almost madness to the magistrates of Taranto, as if they had risen one morning and had decided to close blast furnace 2. This is not the case, because in 2016 a boy, a 35-year-old worker, died after forty-eight hours of agony because he was hit by glowing cast iron. And the prosecutor, as if Taranto were to be a bubble removed from the Italian State, should turn to the other side and pretend that a 35-year-old and his family do not have the same right to justice as all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This means "the Italians" first. This means first the taranthins and first the Apulian ones. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other than the lies of a captain of my boots, who tells me to go back to Taranto! He's the one who canceled the meetings in Taranto! He should go talk to Taranto! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Former Minister Salvini, go to Taranto. Kissing, Salvini, from Taranto! Go, Salvini. Have the courage to say that tarantinos are less than others and that other Italian companies are less than Arcelor, because Arcelor comes before all other companies, because for Arcelor there is a criminal immunity, a criminal shield that for other companies there is not. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I, like other people, can also see different solutions that do not even foresee closure, because it is not said, there is no anti-industrial culture. Calm down. Enough of this. But is it possible that an industry should be allowed to bring too many children to oncology? Is it possible that we should close our eyes to GDP and not intelligently try to combine both? No? Then this Parliament is shortsighted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, I will not accept any compromise, because I represent that territory; I do not want to run for governor, as Calenda says, but I proudly represent that territory. It is not only for this reason, because there is an inaccurate narration of the last days of the offensive against the entire Parliamentary Group of the Movimento 5 Stars, both in the House and in the Senate. That amendment was signed not by 17 senators, but by the 5 Star Movimento Parliamentary Group in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I haven't captained anyone at all, because here there are not sheep, but people who bring solutions and an idea of Movimento 5 Stars for ten years now. We have arrived here - whether you like it or not - also to combine well-being, health and life with GDP, industry and development. It can be done! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We open all eyes and do not abandon a city to itself. Let's not do this, because they won't forgive us, they won't forgive us. We're here to find solutions. We talk to Minister Patuanelli and we offer our solutions, without being cornered by a multinational, by administrators, by whoever it is. We are a sovereign Parliament representing citizens and [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So let's look for solutions, because for me, Senator Salvini, Italians really come first. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u26	Senator Romeo, I believe I understand that the proposal put forward by Senator Bernini and Mr Urso, on behalf of the Parent Company, is to ask for President Conte to come and make communications to Parliament tomorrow. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. It remains therefore established... (The Senators of the Group) [[L-SP-PSd'Az display signs bearing the words: "Disaster Ilva shame!"]] Let's put the signs away, please. I call on Senators Quaestors and Parliamentary assistants to remove the cartels. You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't authorize the choirs when the signs were removed. SANTANGELO (M5S). President Calderoli, the sitting must be interrupted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, when you become president, you will. SANTANGELO (M5S). The session must be interrupted, otherwise the journalists take pictures. She knows. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I find that the interruptions of the session only emphasize what one would like and, therefore, avoid suspending it. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's the second time he's done it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Read the Rules of Procedure before you speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Tommaso Fiore) in Modugno, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u30	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech concerns the non-self-sufficiency fund. It, although there has been agreement between the Regions for the repartition, sees the blockade by the Ministry for its provision. In this way we touch the weakest classes, the families in which there are people with serious disabilities and elderly who are not self-sufficient. Therefore, late delivery of those resources further puts in crisis families that are already in difficulty. It is therefore necessary that the Ministry, in the specific case the MEF, immediately unblocks the funds intended for these purposes. We have no time to waste, so I ask that the Ministry intervene urgently. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u33	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the House what is happening during these hours in the prison in Terni, Umbria. Since Saturday there have been riots of prisoners: today's one has involved even three sections of the prison. The prison police are working not only in Terni prison, but also in those of Perugia and Spoleto, in very serious conditions due to the shortage of personnel. Despite all this, however, the agents were even mocked by the statements of some leaders who, in the aftermath of the events in Perugia, said that it is normal for such events to happen in prisons. Already in September, after the seizure of a prison police officer in Perugia, a suicide and a revolt, we presented a question - still unanswered - in which we asked Minister Bonafede to tell us when Umbria would have had sufficient organic endowment and when it would have ceased in Italy that "downloadbarile" for which, even today, some of the prisoners involved in Terni's events were transferred from Tuscany. For months now, in fact, Umbria has received the waste of the Tuscan penitentiary system. But that is not the way to solve the problems. They were just some of the prisoners who in Tuscany turned out to be authors of very serious facts that were transferred. We must solve the problems, not simply through transfers from one structure to another. Among other things, it seems that some prisoners are involved in a process of radicalisation, so there is a danger of the development of Islamism within our prisons. We are therefore calling for the non-answer to be given to Mr Bonafede, to whom we will in any case ask a new question so that he finally gives answers that first think of the prison police and then of the prisoners. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u36	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, three weeks ago, I spoke in this House to ask the Ministry of Defence for clarity as to whether the Colonel of the Carabinieri Maurizio Bortoletti was taking office in the Regional Control Body (ORAC) of the Lombardy Region. The Ministry communicated to the Regional Council of Lombardy the refusal of Colonel Bortoletti to take up this post. I would like to thank Mr Tofalo, who has just come to the Defence Committee here in the Senate to answer a specific question on the subject put by Mr Donno. However, despite this ministerial denial and despite the negative opinion expressed previously by the General Command of the Arm, the colonel is to all intents and purposes a member of the ORAC. The Regional Council of Lombardy has justified the assignment of the position to the colonel as a result of the silence-consent of the Ministry which lasted until 11 October; but the silence-consent - former single text of the public employment - to which the Regional Council refers, would not apply to military personnel for explicit exclusion provided for by the same norm. It is therefore requested to know whether the Ministry does not consider that the acceptance of the assignment by Colonel Bortoletti constitutes disciplinary illegal, in view of the fact that the colonel - as just pointed out - is still a member of the ORAC. If the appointment has been unlawfully completed, it is considered that the illegality adheres to the appointment of the entire control body, being a perfect body, with inevitable damage of a not only erorial nature, since the establishment of the ORAC has ceased the activity of the previous control body. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u39	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the intention, shared with other members of the Cultural Commission, to present a question to Minister Franceschini on an incident that took place a few days ago in the Palace of Caserta. On the morning of October 30, a citizen entered by car into the gardens of the royal palace Bourbon evading surveillance. Without anyone trying to stop him, he parked the vehicle along a boulevard and reached on foot the fountain of Venus and Adonis, located at considerable distance from the passage that is supposed to have used. Always undisturbed he entered the bathtub, walked among the sculptures that adorn her and bathed, as evidenced by a video posted on social media, and according to him it would be about thirty minutes before a watchman materialized. It was a game, heads the author of the gesture, to draw general attention to the inefficiency of the surveillance system of the Reggia, a gap objectively unacceptable for a UNESCO site visited annually by one million people. The late discovery of the dramatic break-in was followed by the architect Maffei, director of the institute (with special autonomy), the complaint to the carabinieri for disfigurement of a cultural asset, the start of an internal investigation and the ritual demand for money (7 million) for the plan to secure the entire complex, addressed to the Ministry of the Interior. It cannot be enough: Minister Franceschini has the duty to ascertain the truth and to report it to the Italians, also because, after having seen a florist climb on the lion of the Scalone in January 2018 and an accountant, in October 2019, join the procession of Venus underground, it is possible to look with even more concern at 2020, when we know that the Reggia, in the heat of the merchandise of which he is victim, will be the set of the shooting of a fiction. I would add that in the cross-fire of the poisons immediately unleashed among those shouting at the plot against the Maffei, implying that the keepers were accomplices if not even hinters of the motorized invader, and those who regret that the manager has not spent a word to make self-criticism (in fact proving a skill equal to that of the predecessor in evading their responsibilities), the only certainty is that the problem of control of the gates of Via Pietro Giannone and especially of Via Raffaele Gasparri remains. Just as the ancient vice of the Mibact executives remains to mark as leaks of news and impute to the staff the evidence of their ineptitudes when they are rediscovered outside, both in case they emerge casually and that they are brought out by the employees for a sense of responsibility towards the administration to which they belong. The episode of Caserta is imposed on the public for the fame of the Palace vanvitelliana, but I close by quoting another, to prove, also exemplary: in the archaeological park of Capo Colonna, in Calabria, always theatre of the action of the tombers, the system of video surveillance, indispensable to guarantee the safety of visitors as well as the ruins, was put out of use by a storm last July 16 and repaired in full only at the end of October, despite that the general direction museums had guaranteed the necessary money already at the end of August. While the direction of the museum pole of Calabria slept quietly, worried only about the "escape of news" and the annoying interference of those who speak to it, the state archaeological park was exposed to serious risks. It is necessary and urgent, therefore, to take charge, by the political and administrative summits of the Mibact, of the quality of the service offered to users, in the great attractors as well as in the places of the smallest or defiled culture, since security is not only that guaranteed by the near and providential drones use, but also and first of all descends from the moral uprightness of those who, on behalf of the Republic, protect the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u42	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, greeting family members like always before going to work: a daily and immensely precious gesture that will never happen again. A tragedy that has shaken not only the Alexandrian but the whole of Italy for its brutal ferocity and senselessness. Matteo Gastaldo, Marco Triches and Antonio Candido closed the door behind them last night and then died only because they performed, as always, their duty. A duty of assistance to others, of constant help, of generosity. Last night, when the siren sounded, they wore helmets and jackets to get on the rescue vehicles for what seemed to be one of the classic routine interventions and instead, everything collapsed, like the farmhouse of Quargnento, exploded in thousands of rubble. From the elements acquired by the investigators it could be an arson. In fact, a timer and a still unexploded gas cylinder have been found. It would appear, then, that these explosions have been desired and deliberately determined. Today the whole of Italy speaks of the three Alexandrian firemen, but no word will bring them back to us. And their smiles in the photos are disarming, they are the most macabre gnashing of a story without a sense, the same gnashing that was felt this night while the ruins scratched the ruins of that farmhouse, in the hopeful search of Matteo Gastaldo, the last firefighter found lifeless, overwhelmed by the rubble. The photos of Matteo, Marco and Antonio are the symbol of all those workers who every day strive to make our country better, angels who make their work a mission, to protect and save our lives. Antonio Candido, originally from Reggio Calabria, was only thirty-two years old, married only one year, was the son of a firefighter still in service. In June, on social media, he wrote after the death of a colleague: How much is the life of a firefighter worth? The other hero is Marco Triches, thirty-eight years old, of Alexandria, married, with a small child. He loved photography and was ready to help his neighbor, as witnessed during the earthquake that struck Arquata del Tronto. In that tragedy he left to help the affected people. Finally, Matteo Gastaldo, forty-six years old, residing in Gavi, also with a little girl. The protagonist in the rescue operations during the bad weather and determining in many important operations as when he saved a woman who had attempted suicide by throwing herself into a well. To the three victims are added three wounded, another two firefighters, Giuliano Dodero, class 1971, and Graziano Trombetta, class 1984, and a policeman of the station of Solero Roberto Borlengo of thirty-one years. To them goes my most sincere wish for prompt healing with the hope that they will soon return home in the arms of their loved ones. Antonio, Marco and Matteo will no longer return home and today they will all call them heroes. Even the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte defined the firefighters: "heroes always at the forefront to ensure our safety." But their heroes were already. Today, simply, I am even more so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u45	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, again, racism remains at the heart of the headlines. It is truly unacceptable and intolerable that even today, in a globalized world, in a multiracial society like ours, in the stadiums, where correctness and sportiness should be the cornerstones of competition, episodes of racism are consumed against those who have different skin colors, or belong to another ethnicity or come from another geographical area of the same nation. It is absurd and seriously disturbing the words of the leader of the Hellas Verona about the racist choirs turned from his curve to Mario Balotelli; think, the Scaliger leader says that the player from Brescia, already militant in our national team, can never be considered entirely Italian. Hellas Verona's own sports company has minimized this, saying that there have been no racist choirs and that the Verona fans are ironic, but absolutely not racist. I would also like to remind you that just a few months ago the coach of Bologna, Sinisa Mihajlovic, a great man who is fighting with dignity and strength of mind his battle against leukemia and to whom I wish for a complete recovery, has been called derogatoryly Gypsy, this time not by an ultra, but by an officer of the municipal police of Rome, a public official representing the State. Even more serious, in my opinion, than in Brianza a mom, during a game of soccer between chicks, class 2009, has shouted to a child of just ten years, "shit nigger." Here there are no economic interests, you don't win the gold ball, it's a simple game among children who want to have fun. What teaching can a mother give to her ten - year - old if she gives these bad manifestations of herself to another child of the same age? Episodes that are consumed a few days after the establishment of the Commission against racism and incitement to hatred and violence, on which the Veronese is ironic wondering if they will come to take it: a mix of ignorance, arrogance, contempt for the value of human life. Above all, what strikes is his exhibitionism and his inner certainty of impunity, omnipotence and superiority over those whose only fault is to be different by race, culture or religion. As if the color of the skin or the different geographical origin could be synonymous with good person or delinquent. I conclude my speech by recalling Martin Luther King, considered one of the most influential historical characters of all time, who fought hard for the emancipation of black people in his country, until becoming a martyr of them. Fifty-one years have passed since his assassination, but the world has not yet learned that respect for the human person is a right-duty of every citizen who wants to be a free man. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u46	I greet on behalf of the Assembly - alas, right on closing hours - the teachers and students of the Istituto Da Vinci-De Giorgio in Lanciano, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-162.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, November 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.58 p.m.)
