ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u2	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the session the President of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group and the Vice-President Vicar of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 25 October. At the request of a parliamentary group, today's sitting will end at 7 p.m. The timetable for the work of the current week includes, in addition to the discussion of the draft legislation from the seat on the agenda, the examination of ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The week from 30 September to 4 October will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. In the week from 8 to 10 October will be discussed the draft law on the posting of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio, the Update Note to the DEF 2019, the decree-law on the protection of work and on the resolution of corporate crises, the draft law on the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage, the document on the establishment of a single chamber commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work, as well as the motion of the Senator Segre and others for the establishment of an extraordinary Commission on the contrast of the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence. The calendar of the week from 15 to 17 October includes, in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished topics, the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 on Wednesday 16 at 9.30 a.m. The week from 21 to 25 October will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. On Thursday 10 and 17 October the inspection union and, at 15, the question time are planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 24 September 2019 with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's proceedings for the months of September and October 2019: - Doc. LVII, n. 2-a - Update note of the Economy and Finance Document 2019 - Legislative drawings no. 257 and 702 - Ratification and implementation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, held in Faro on 27 October 2005 - Doc. XXII, No 4 - Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the safety and exploitation of work (from the establishment)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u5	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 25 October: [[Wednesday, 25 September 9,30-19 - Drawing of Law No 1110 - Participation in dairy companies (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 787 - Electrical equipment in airport hubs (from the establishment) - Drawing of Law No 867 - Safety for health professionals (from the establishment) - Ratification of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs Thursday 26 " 9,30-20]] The week from 30 September to 4 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, October 8, 16.30-20 - Draft law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. LVII, n. 2-a - Update note of the Economy and Finance Document 2019 - Drawing of Law n. 1476 - Decree-Law n. 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution (final vote by 9 October) (decades on 3 November) - Drawings of Law n. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage - Doc. XXII, n. 4 - Establishment of a monocameral commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing-up office) - Motion No 136, Secrets and others, on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 10, 15) Wednesday 9 " 9.30-20 Thursday 10 " 9.30-20]] Motions for resolutions on document LVII, No 2-a (Note to update the Economy and Finance Document 2019) will have to be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1476 (Decree-Law No 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution) will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 15 October 16,30-20 - Following unfinished topics - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (Wednesday 16, 9.30 a.m.) - Inspection union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 17, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 16 " 9.30-20 Thursday 17 " 9.30-20]] The week from 21 to 25 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 2-a (Note to update the Economy and Finance Document 2019) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 9' FI-BP 47' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' Mixed 26' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1476 (Decree-Law No 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 37' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' Mixed 36' IV-PSI 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 41' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' PD 22' FdI 16' Mixed 15' IV-PSI 15 Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u8	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to explain why the Forza Italia Group voted against the timetable. The motivation concerns the further shift of the examination of the bill on the passage of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marches to Emilia-Romagna. I'd like to give a little background to this passage. It was called twelve years ago a referendum that saw the population of these municipalities, under the Constitution, vote with a very high percentage (90 per cent) in favour of the transition from the Marches to Romagna, with very understandable reasons: administrative reasons, infrastructure, of greater ease for the population to reach the essential services for citizens (hospitals, municipalities) in Emilia-Romagna than the Marches. In twelve years, Parliament has been unable to give its opinion on this matter and to conclude the procedural procedure which is due to these people who, under the Constitution, followed the right path twelve years ago. I have this background, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - and I apologise if I do so at the beginning of the sitting, when not everyone is able to give such an important subject proper attention - because it is the vote on the agenda. We have been insisting for a long time on the timing of this measure, on a form of respect for the Constitution and, together, on the citizens of Emilia-Romagna, who are nothing more than the representation of all those Italian citizens who, following a constitutional path, are doing the right thing. It is Parliament that has not been closing the circle of this right practice for twelve years now. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At the end of the summer session, between July and August, we accepted a gentlemen's agreement, an agreement between gentlemen, as we defined it, proposed by the then majority, to move the calendarization at the beginning of this session, as the first measure to be examined. At the beginning of the session, unanimously, the Conference of the Leaders, on the basis of a further gentlemen's agreement, another agreement between gentlemen, established that this provision was examined today after the examination of other draft laws in the drafting. Understandable. We were still in the category of gentlemen who agreed. Yesterday, the majority, legitimately from its perspective, but illegitimately as far as we are concerned, called for a further postponement of the timetable for this measure, which, colleagues, I would like to point out, was unanimously approved in the House and was extensively examined in the Commission, with hearings of the representatives of the municipalities concerned. The current majority took two weeks to obtain further information. Now, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for the new majority dynamics that were created two weeks ago, but with equal respect for the citizens of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio, who have been waiting for twelve years, I wonder, indeed, what further information should be acquired that has not been acquired by Parliament in these twelve years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And if more information is needed, it takes two weeks? That is why we have voted against the timetable, but we hope that a spontaneous gentlemen's agreement by the majority, the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement will be in place, in the face of a requirement which, I repeat, has manifested itself for twelve years now. We are the culprits, not the people concerned. It is Parliament that is not giving its opinion. So, we sincerely hope for an active and active repentance of the majority. We hope that on 8 October this measure will really be examined, because it has been waiting too long. Yesterday we heard in the group leaders, and with that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, a couple of things that have left us somewhat perplexed. We are told that further information is determined by the fact that the referendum was held 12 years ago and that, perhaps, some of those who voted have failed, have died. Colleagues, we do not see that the referendum is an instrument of direct democracy with a deadline such as yogurt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, unless we change the Constitution of which we are not aware, the vote of twelve years ago is equally valid today; indeed, we are the defaulters and we cannot impose on these people what we have not done. That being said, this is our only reason for voting against, but it is a very strong motivation. Therefore, we are looking forward to 8 October, in order to finally see a process of justice finally celebrated that concludes, according to the Constitution, an iter that this population has been unjustly waiting for twelve years for this part. This is our invitation to the majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u11	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise on the same subject as Mr Bernini. Last night, incomprehensiblely, we learned of the desire of the new majority to postpone the discussion of this bill, which - I remember too - was unanimously approved in the Chamber and which was to be dealt with in this Chamber on 1 August, the day of discussion of the bill on civic education, when there was an obstructionism, even with suspension of the proceedings of the Chamber, which determined the postponement of the discussion of the draft law of the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marches to Emilia-Romagna. Then I gathered, together with other colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senators Croatti and Coltorti, the disappointment of the representatives of these two countries; I remember that there were also the mayor of Sassofeltrio and the representative of the committee. The disappointment was because after twelve years since June 2007, when the referendum was held approved by an absolute majority, not only of these two municipalities, but of other seven municipalities of Valmarecchia, the latter, by chance, after two years managed to move from the Marche to Emilia-Romagna. The people of these two communities have reconfirmed the popular will again through the two municipal councils - as you, Senator Calderoli, asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - who spoke in June 2019 for the passage. Last night, after last week's adoption of the timetable unanimously, we heard of a further postponement, of which, as Mr Bernini said earlier, we cannot understand the reasons; perhaps to give weight to the questioning petitions that have been circulating in the last few months in those two countries to extort signatures. No, that's not good. It is a mockery of these two communities. The Democratic Party is still calling for further postponement. This morning in local newspapers there was talk of a joint decision of the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement. No, dear colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, dear colleagues in Croatti and Coltorti, you have suffered the will of the Democratic Party to put a further postponement. The Democratic Party itself, the first Democratic Party of the Left, headed by the Marche regional juntas and the provincial juntas of Pesaro and Urbino, has done nothing in twelve years to remove the conditions that had then led the citizens of these two countries to sign that referendum. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At that time there were no services, there was a desire to compress health care, there were no maintenance; it was twelve years ago and nothing has been done by the Regional Council and the Province of Pesaro and Urbino. In the same way I would like to stress that in these twelve years, because it has been so long since the process, the representatives of the Marche Region and the representatives of the Province of Pesaro Urbino have never deigned to respond and to participate in the requests received by the various Commissions that have worked in recent years, demonstrating arrogance towards Parliament. Therefore - I repeat - the League Group opposes this change in the timetable and calls for today's draft law on the posting of these two municipalities to be dealt with. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are people who left last night to come here to the Senate and finally witness the approval of this bill. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, not disappoint them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u14	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on this subject on the basis, above all, of the knowledge of these municipalities and the territory. You know I'm from Trentino, but for family reasons, I go to these municipalities several times a year. I believe that those who know these municipalities and the geographical conformation of the territory can only reflect differently from what our allies have said to date. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that more than 12 years have passed since the referendum and that the electoral corps of more than 12 years ago is completely different from that of today. I remember - and these are objective data - that in these municipalities they collected signatures, with the identity card of the subscribers; I saw it with my own eyes and I personally felt that today the population has strong doubts about the detachment in Emilia-Romagna and not for political reasons. In fact, just take in hand a map, see where the Municipalities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo are located and where the hospitals or schools are to understand that obviously the detachment of these Municipalities from the Marches to go to Romagna is a non-political and geographical sense, because - I repeat - the schools are in Mercino Conca, in the province of Pesaro, ten minutes by car, while one tomorrow they should go to Morciano di Romagna, that is twenty, twenty minutes by car; the hospital is in Sassocorvaro, that is a quarter of an hour drive, while in Romagna they have to go to Riccione, thirty, thirty-five minutes by car. These considerations are enough, it is enough to really know the territory to understand that reflecting a little more on this subject would make sense. I repeat that mine is an intervention for personal knowledge of the territory and the people who live there, for having listened in person to the doubts and problems that these people express. This is precisely why the Brothers of Italy Group is in favour of a rethinking of the situation, to deepen the issue and in essence I think that after twelve years it would make sense to redo a referendum and really leave to the people of these countries a decision, to be taken today and not twelve years ago in completely different contexts, on what they want for their lives, for their families, for their work. [[Applause from Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u15	Senator Bernini, in addition to your opposition to the calendar, must I interpret your speech in the sense that you too make Senator Arrigoni's proposal to include in today's calendar the detachment of the two municipalities?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u16	Didn't I, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is He had expressed opposition, but not the proposal. The request is to keep the item on today's agenda with hope, but I have a feeling that we will not be able to make it. I would therefore like to confirm the commitment of the majority to deal with it on 8 October anyway, then if we win, yay.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u17	I put to the vote the proposal to put on the agenda of today's sitting the bill on the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna Region, advanced by Senators Bernini and Arrigoni. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u18	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1110, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Vallardi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in the title, which amends Article 4 of the single text on companies with public participation, has already been approved by the House of Deputies and consists of a single article, so it is a very simple, strict but certainly useful text. It is aimed at adding a new paragraph to Article 4 of the Legislative Decree of 19 August 2016, n. 175 (single text on participating companies), much better known as the Law Madia. It is recalled that Article 4 provides for a prohibition on public administrations, even indirectly, to set up companies with the purpose of producing goods and services which are not strictly necessary for the pursuit of their institutional purposes, and to acquire or maintain holdings, including minority holdings, in such companies. The measure adds a new paragraph 9-c in order to provide that this prohibition does not apply to the establishment, acquisition or maintenance of holdings in companies with a dominant social interest in the production, treatment, processing and placing on the market of milk and milk products in any way treated. Pursuant to paragraph 9, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Presidents of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, if certain conditions are met, may decide to exclude (total or partial) the application of the provisions of the same article to specific companies with public participation. The competence of the Presidents of the Region and the Autonomous Provinces is limited to the companies participated by the territorial agency of belonging. Any measures taken shall be forwarded to the Chambers and, in the case of deliberations of the Presidents of the Region or of the Autonomous Provinces, also to the Court of Auditors and to the structure of the Ministry of Economy and Finance responsible for the activity of direction, control and monitoring on the implementation of the Single Text. It is recalled that by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 31 October 2017 the Brescia Milk Plant was authorised to derogate from the obligation to release. It was therefore recognized the role of garrison in the field of health and food control carried out by the Centrale del latte di Brescia. As a chronicle and moment of reflection on the measure under consideration, I would like to point out that, to date, the following milk plants are involved by public actors (in particular local authorities): Central to the milk of Brescia (already mentioned); Alessandria and Asti milk centre; Central to the milk of Rome; Centrale del latte d'Italia (share company listed on the stock exchange, which has grouped the Centrale del latte di Torino with those of Florence, Pistoia and Livorno). I have thus concluded and wish a good debate on this measure. [[Applause from Senator Rufa.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u20	Since the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene and since the draft law, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, consists of only Article 1, we proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u23	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, at its meeting on 16 July last, the Agriculture and Agri-food Production Commission adopted without amendment the draft law amending Article 4 of the single text on companies with public participation, concerning participations in dairy companies. A maquillage operation has been carried out on this measure. Milk is a hot topic for the League. Since the events related to milk quotas we have seen that the League has an electoral interest on milk, an expansionist aim in terms of consensus that focuses not on the quality and rules of the sector, but only on the consolidation of its position in terms of election. It is clear that the text of the measure does not solve the problems of the price at the source of milk, and that is perhaps the real problem at the root of the producers' concern. In these months we have seen the crisis of the system, which should have led the legislator to intervene more forcefully, with incisiveness; instead, after the protests of Sardinia, the theme seems to have been silenced. Producers are well aware of this and know that it is still potentially explosive. The combination of Community rules, the critical nature of the system, the absence of sectoral policies leads to uncertainties and difficulties in carrying out this type of activity. There has been a partial response to the emergency, but the reasons for that milk spilled on the road have not been dealt with in a structural way. I say this because only by defining the structural framework of the sector can we also see the substance of the problem of this measure. This change, which only seems to be a matter of company law, also affects the imbalances that make the dairy crisis a lasting one. It is a text that does not address as it should the different situations of the different milk plants on the national territory, to which, instead, we give the same response, negative, to the decrease, confusing carriages (that there are) with agencies managed in a virtuous way. On the other hand, a necessary distinction should be made. Brescia, for example, did not need to derogate from the rule known as the Law of Madia. In fact, if you prove to have the accounts in order and to have a project and if there is a capable public service, you have no difficulty sticking to that law. A different case is certainly that of Centrale del latte di Roma, which has been experiencing a critical phase for a long time. It is therefore unjustified to justify the measure, which is intended to bring it back to the requirements of health protection and food control. It would be a bit like saying that, where there is no public participation, there is not even an effective care in the area of health and food control. In addition, there are already specific competent authorities that play this supervisory role. Indeed, the Market and Competition Authority considers that the draft law under consideration appears likely to alter the competitive dynamics in the sector concerned, in total disagreement with the principles of competition protection and efficient management of public participations, laid down at the basis of the Madia reform. Specifically, as has also been pointed out by the Court of Auditors at the hearing on the draft law under consideration, the assimilation of dairy companies with those which carry out services of general interest tends to make different situations homogeneous, bringing together the public services traditionally intended with production activities made by private economic operators. The risk is that this bill may then be followed by requests to this effect also from other related production sectors, which would further empty the single text of other categories of public participations. In essence, action should be taken to ensure that resources do not go to the boards, rather than to support the real producers. Certainly it would have been better to tackle the matter differently, but we know the conditioning that had segments of the old majority and above all some expansionist aims for reasons of consensus. A public finance intervention that is not linked to investment and the price of milk risks not being decisive. There were proposals for amendments, which were intended to link public finance to the budget in place. Indeed, the strongest fear we have is that it will not reach the farmers and the entire milk supply chain. The political framework, of course, has changed today. Certainly the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Bellanova, is more responsible and more attentive to farmers and producers than to the boards of the milk plants; that is why perhaps those corrections will be able to be put in place, also through consultation with the trade organisations. We are and will always be on the side of those who do agriculture seriously and not of those who use agriculture to sit somewhere else. For these reasons we will not be able to vote on this measure. Therefore, I would like to say that the Italian Viva Group is abstaining. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u26	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, my Group's vote on the draft law before us will be in favour. I believe that we have a less ideological approach to this matter than we have on the subject of public societies. The ideological privatisation - I am thinking of the theme of the Centrale del latte in Rome - for the clearly negative results it has had shows us, that we need to have a different attitude, with regard to the fact that market logics - which must certainly be safeguarded, in certain sectors such as this - require the capacity of the public hand to build balances and supply chains. In this regard, let us think about the story of Sardinia, which has not yet been resolved. However, I agree with the previous speaker on the need to take up this issue in general, in order to find a solution that will promote the quality and integration of the supply chain. In fact, without integration and without the shift of value to producers, rather than to those who market, we will never give a serious and strategic response to this issue. Therefore our vote will be in favour, with the hope that the Ministry will open a more strategic reflection on this problem. [[Applause from Senators Ginetti and Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u29	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the last centuries one of the most heated debates in politics has been linked to the need or not for the State to play an active role in the development of a country's economy. History has taught us that a liberal economic system, like the Italian one, is the most suitable solution so that the free entrepreneurial initiative, flanked by necessary and rigid state controls, brings well-being to the whole community. However, in recent decades, especially after the Second World War, a series of state entrepreneurial initiatives have been used that had the noble objective of relaunching the country's economy, offering services and work at the same time. Today the world has changed and, in many cases, the inability to manage some subjects, the country unfortunately associates the concept of public management with inefficiency. The problem, in fact, is not so much related to state participation in a society or the purpose it has. The real problem, which policy should address, is the management capacity of those who manage public society. Limiting public participation within companies only according to the purposes they have would not solve any kind of problem in terms of efficiency, both production and services. The draft law we are debating today is correct in eliminating a serious restriction which would in fact have prohibited companies with public participation from producing, processing, processing and placing on the market milk, however treated, and milk products. The demonstration that such a limitation would be a mistake stems, for example, from the fact that in my city there is a public society, linked exclusively to the production and marketing of milk, which for years has offered a product of the highest quality to the province of Brescia and beyond. This service, moreover, is carried out guaranteeing jobs and profit, making society a pride for the territory and for the citizens who live there. The direction that should be taken in the management of the public good is that of efficiency and merit, not limitations: only in this way can the country guarantee its citizens efficient services at appropriate costs. Therefore, Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u32	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, the rule that we are about to approve makes the derogation from Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 175 of 2016 stable, which lays down the rules under which the corporate participations of public bodies move. Already the current legislation provided, in specific situations in which the public bodies demonstrated the strategicity of participation in certain companies and the consistency with the mission of the company, the maintenance of this type of participation. Precisely in the light of this, as has also been said in the introductory report, there is a series of situations in Italy (such as those of the milk plants of Brescia and Rome and the former milk plants of Turin and Florence, which later became Centrale del latte d'Italia, with Pistoia and with other realities) that are there to demonstrate this type of activity. The theme of the milk plants was born at the beginning of the last century and then has a return of flame in the fifties, because of the need to meet two important attentions to be reserved to the territory: on the one hand, the supply of quality milk guaranteed and certified to the communities living in the big cities, especially after the First and Second World Wars and, on the other hand, the need to help a chain that in the countryside struggled to find a stable structure and to have adequate answers in terms of an economic return that encouraged the production of milk because it was perceived the need. This picture has changed enormously. Indeed, with globalised markets, the overall situation of cities in food supply is no longer that of the two post-war countries. Those problems still remain: we continue to have a dairy sector that shows cyclically heavy crisis situations (the last, that of the sheep and goat sector, which we have seen reported by all the communication bodies, I believe is impressed quite strongly in our minds); moreover, we continue to feel the need for greater transparency and more precise controls for all products that, in many cases, are imported from different parts of the world, even from productive contexts in which the mechanisms of quality control and certification, health and food safety are at least not comparable with the national ones. I believe that these issues, as colleagues have already pointed out, will have to be dealt with in depth with further measures. For example, I think we should think about an analysis at national level of the points of entry of food products, which in Italy are about sixty, while in other countries of Northern Europe there are about three, five or seven. It does not make much sense that, in similar economic situations, Italy has sixty points of entry of the products, and therefore as many places where the quality, health and safety of the goods entering must be checked, while other countries more rationally have decided that within them those same products enter from three, five or seven points. I therefore believe that the issue will be put to our attention, as a need to ensure full transparency to everything concerning the quality, quantity and origin of food products that are then used as a basis for the processing of products in our country, which is not yet in force. At the same time, the whole issue of the dairy supply chain will require careful reflection to prevent the crisis conditions of sectors that, unfortunately, are coming out too cyclically, risking to undermine an important sector both for the economic role it plays, and as a territorial garrison in areas and contexts that, without that type of livestock presence, would probably go towards desertification of the control and management of the territory. The measure in question makes a punctual operation, essentially saying that this type of economic activity derogates by law, without having to demonstrate the requirements referred to in Article 4, to the general rule of Legislative Decree no. 175 of 2016. From this point of view, we are not saying that this is not necessary, but we are still convinced that it should have been addressed in a general context. For this reason, our vote will not be against; we will abstain on the measure, with the hope - as other colleagues have already said - that the space of reasoning will be created as soon as possible to deepen the issue, on the double front of consumer protection and the world of production, to formulate a measure, if possible in a short time, more coordinated and complete, that addresses the issue as a whole. [[Applause from the PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator Trentacoste.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u35	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the proposal that we will finally approve today is aimed at overcoming - as has already been said - the procedure established by the single text on participating companies, better known as the famous Madia law. In fact, the single text established the prohibition for public administrations to acquire and maintain holdings in companies which have as their social object the production of goods and services, except for certain exceptions, in view of the public interests involved in the activities carried out in the type of participation. With the proposal before us today, we exclude from this ban the dairy sector, in practice the milk plants, by promoting possible future participations. The foundation of this legislative initiative - wanted, I remember, by the Lega-Salvini Premier Group of the House, led by Mr Riccardo Molinari, the one who basically signed the proposal - is the recognition of the role of garrison in the field of food and health control carried out by the milk plants, which have distinguished themselves over the years for their capacity for innovation and sensitivity towards new technologies, and - moving from the need to maintain unchanged the heritage of history, traditions, quality and innovation - the return to public administrations of the functions of guarantee and control on the dairy supply chain [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which has failed following the approval of the single text on the participating companies. The dairy sector - let us remember - has an important economic and social importance for our country, as it has an incentive that gives work to more than 100,000 operators between producers and processors. The transformation of milk is a strategic sector for our country and represents an important basin of wealth and employment for the local territories. I remember that we are importers of milk and are not self-sufficient in production: for this reason, it is even more strategic to guard the sector. The milk supply chain and Made in Italy, in fact, have always been a guarantee for the consumer. It is particularly important - I also say this to the representative of the Government - to make the most of Italian milk, from milking to table, also because of its connection with the territory and with security. We know, in fact, that our milk does not have equals in the world, because what we import in our country does not have the same qualities and, above all, is not subject to the same controls compared to what we produce in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Institute of Services for the Agricultural Food Market (ISMEA) found that in the first quarter of 2019 the national market for dairy products showed signs of recovery, with the price of milk at the stable that is average of 40.6 euros per 100 litres, excluding VAT and without premiums: let's say that for the producer it is still an important price start, with a variation of almost 10 percentage points compared to the previous year. The reversal of the trend had already begun at the end of 2018, although we had a difficult and complicated year, especially for production costs, which proved to be higher than in previous years. I say this today in this House to the representative of the Government: changing the excise duty on agricultural fuels is of enormous seriousness; if you have that in mind, you do not have to do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You do not have to do this because the production costs of our poor farmers are increasing and the only resource they have, at the same time, is the CAP, aid and support. From this point of view too, however, there will have to be a careful policy, not only to imagination and creativity, but above all to those who produce, to those who go to the stable, to those who perhaps, when they leave the stable stinks, after working all day in the midst of the animals with effort to produce the milk that we so much praise today. All this must be carefully considered. If in the so-called climate decree you intend to change this excise duty, please do not do so, because our producers are already in a difficult and difficult situation today: they are reaching a balance with the 40 euros, but if this change in cost, they would no longer do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In wishing the current Minister good work, I would like to remind the House of the Government's commitment over the previous fourteen months, with our minister Centinario at the head of the Department of Agricultural Policy. In particular, I would like to mention the many important interventions that have been made with the emergency decree regarding the problems related to the dairy sector. In addition to the €10 million planned with the establishment of a fund to support the supply chain, real support has been given to supply chain contracts, to the promotion of measures to regulate the supply of sheep cheese with a protected designation of origin, to research, technology transfer and structural interventions in the field of reference, but also and above all to the registration in the database of the SIAN (National Agricultural Information System) of the quantities produced here, imported from European and non-European countries, and to the quality of the products we import, which is fundamental. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It was a targeted and wanted action, which we achieved together, and this was definitely a strong point. It is shown that consumers are increasingly looking for a genuine product, linked to the territory and the milk plants guarantee, today more than ever, to local communities a close distribution, at zero kilometer, at a controlled price, that also allows the remuneration of the supply chain that in other cases we cannot see, being too strong the part of the private buyer towards those who produce the milk. Milk plants are also traditionally the symbol of the territory, as I said earlier, and represent the instrument that today can help even more the consumer to approach the product - also because consumption has fallen in recent years - and above all to have on the shelf an important and not exaggerated reference price. With the adoption of this proposal we will certainly start a path that will lead us, in the not too distant future, to a fair definition of the price of milk for farmers. In conclusion, I declare the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione on this measure, reaffirming the need to maintain however unchanged the heritage of history, tradition and innovation expressed by the milk plants. We must continue to protect our Made in Italy not only in words, but in deeds and action; we will certainly make a contribution on this point also in the budget law. We must continue to promote more and more our excellences all over the world: first the Italian farmers, first the Italian milk. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u38	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 4 of Decree-Law No 175 of 19 August 2016 repealing the prohibition on the establishment, acquisition and maintenance by public bodies of participations mainly involving the production, processing, processing and placing on the market of milk in any way treated and of dairy products represents an important opportunity for the world of production. Public participation in the activities of the sector in question favours the development of primary production, which has always been the weak chain of the entire chain, but fundamental for the production of cheeses of excellence and characterizing our territory. The presence of public bodies is a guarantee of the price paid to the producer, among other things reducing the difficulties linked to the thinning of the profit margins of the weaker part of the entire system. It also promotes the management and development of public structures used for training, research and innovation in the dairy sector, through improved economic sustainability and less dependence on public funding. All this represents a moment of growth and development, through a conscious intervention in the world of dairy entrepreneurship. It goes without saying that this measure alone does not solve the many problems we have in this sector and throughout the dairy sector. We are talking about it in the Commission and I therefore urge President Vallardi (who is already on the track), so that the cognitive investigation that Forza Italia has asked, that is definitely going ahead, proceed more quickly, because the territory waits to see solved the many problems of the sector. There will certainly be moments to explore these issues (we are doing this in the Commission), but we are certainly happy today for the adoption of this measure, which we hope to see. For the reasons I have already explained, I believe it is important to support the rural world, which is useful for maintaining the environment, the landscape and the economies of economically disadvantaged areas; this measure will certainly help in this respect. I therefore strongly vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u41	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we shall shortly be voting on the draft law on participations in dairy companies, which - as we remember - is the Italian food sector with the highest export rate, which generates wealth for our country and our economy. I would just like to mention one fact, in order to be aware of the importance of this sector: in 2018 its turnover amounted to EUR 16.2 billion. Therefore the exports of Italian dairy products are constantly increasing, thanks to the great appreciation that the international markets reserve to our products, and to the made in Italy: let's remember it, and not only in this sector, but also in others, such as that of grains. Let's remember that. All this happens also and above all thanks to the commitment of Italian companies in the long process of internationalization, necessary precisely to grow and compete globally. However, many productive realities lead to their entrepreneurial activity in conditions of enormous difficulty. This is mainly due to the low price paid to the producer for each litre of milk, which does not allow him to cover the production costs. Now we are talking about this sector, but let's remember that others also have the same problem, because they bear production costs sometimes higher than the price that large retailers want to pay them for the product: just think that in different parts of Italy one litre of milk is paid to the farmer 35 cents, but along the distribution chain the price increases. Those who go shopping know very well the cost of milk. Colleagues, we can no longer allow our farmers to have profit margins so low, compressed or even negative: the result of our production, of Made in Italy, of our future and therefore of future generations, of our children and of our grandchildren. The worldwide success of Italian dairy products and cheeses in particular has been built with the commitment and investments of hundreds of companies that have opened, created, cultivated and developed markets all over the world. We Italians are good at this, but, as political forces and legislators, we must keep this fact in mind and help these entrepreneurs, creating the humus where to grow the Italian entrepreneurial intuition. The draft law before us ensures public intervention in the dairy sector, in order to guarantee the certainty of the price paid to the producer and the quality of the milk produced. We are going to do a really great thing all together; or maybe there is some political force pulling back, but this is not possible or to be considered irrational, because it means that it is not doing the good of the country, but probably some little game; but there is no play, when it comes to our businesses, made in Italy, our entrepreneurs and our future. Mr President, aware that with this measure we are not only able to relaunch a sector that has been in difficulty for a long time, but also to protect our made in Italy agri-food, I announce the vote in favour of the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars here in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u42	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 787. The rapporteur, Senator Di Girolamo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u44	The draft law aims to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to improve the level of environmental sustainability at the three airports that play the role of intercontinental gates - namely Rome Fiumicino, Milan Malpensa and Venice - proposing the replacement or conversion of vehicles used there, powered by endothermic engines, with vehicles and equipment with electric traction. The measure consists of five articles. Article 1 defines the scope of the provisions introduced at airports identified by Article 1, paragraph 3, of the regulation referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 201 of 2015. As already pointed out, this is Rome Fiumicino, Milan-Malpensa and Venice, as airports of national interest with particular strategic importance, which, due to their ability to respond to the demand for large traffic basins and their high degree of connectivity with European and international destinations, play the role of intercontinental gates. In accordance with Article 2, all persons operating in the flight side areas of such airports shall be required to replace or convert vehicles and equipment operated by endothermic engines with those with electric traction. Following an amendment made during the examination in the Commission, those powered by endothermic engines may also be replaced or converted by vehicles and equipment with hybrid or hydrogen power supply, including vehicles using fuel cells, provided that they exist on the market. During the examination in the Commission, it was envisaged that vehicles and equipment the use of which may be necessary to ensure the execution of work aimed at the maintenance and development of the airport infrastructure or is necessary in the event of extraordinary or emergency events. In accepting a condition formulated by the Commission budget, public bodies were also exempted from the obligation. The construction of the charging or refueling facilities - or, where appropriate, storage facilities, as specified by the Commission - necessary for the supply of the means shall be carried out by the airport management companies. Article 3 provides that ENAC shall, within one hundred and eighty days of the entry into force of the law, prepare a programme for the replacement and conversion of vehicles and equipment and for the construction of charging facilities, taking into account the classification of the airports involved and in proportion to the average passenger traffic recorded in the last three years at each port of call. The programme is approved by decree of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and takes into account quantity, type, age, possibility of replacement or conversion of vehicles and equipment already in use at each port of call. Article 4 entrusts ENAC with the task of overseeing the implementation of the programme for the replacement and conversion of vehicles, taking steps to facilitate their implementation, which will take place in accordance with the criteria and procedures laid down by decree of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Finally, by 31 March each year, ENAC will have to report to the Ministry on the results of the programme and on the supervisory activity. Article 5 provides for the provision of financial invariance. Finally, allow me to thank all the Members of the Commission for having contributed constructively to the improvement of the text of this draft law, an important step in promoting more sustainable mobility and the dissemination of low-impact means of transport.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u45	As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we shall proceed to the vote on the articles in the text put forward by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u48	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate falls on a very special week, in some historical respects. In fact, thousands of people - men, women and young people - are working with passion for a better future of our Planet. The climate emergency that we are going through, the rise in temperatures and the consequent continuous episodes of melting of the ice we are witnessing (the last just yesterday, in our country: the Mont Blanc glacier, sliding in part, has caused the closure of Val Ferret) are clear signs that it is time to stop and take seriously care of the land on which we live. All of us face the responsibility of taking responsibility for the living conditions that our children and future generations will be called upon to face. It is no coincidence that, just this important week, during the climate action week, thousands of students are going down to the square, with a mobilization involving students from Australia to America, from Indonesia and India to Europe, and shouting, with a unanimous chorus, an appeal to the institutions: less talk, more attention to environmental issues and more planning and recourse to environmental policies. This appeal is clearly contained in the words that Swedish activist Greta Thunberg addressed to the American Congress, but also to us senators, when we had the pleasure of listening to you here at Palazzo Madama, invited by President Alberti Casellati. The Thunberg has argued: we do not want your praises and we do not want to be invited to hear how good we are and what inspiration we are; spare us all this, without doing anything. This is an appeal to concreteness, which cannot and must not leave us indifferent. As recalled in the document signed by our Head of State, Sergio Mattarella, on the occasion of the Climate action summit held on Monday 23 September, our generation is the first to experience the rapid rise in temperatures all over the world and, probably, the last to have the opportunity to effectively combat the imminent global climate crisis: it is a clear, precise and timely message, which cannot be ignored. Also the President of the Count Council, engaged in these days to represent Italy at the seventy-fourth General Assembly of the UN, has reiterated that our country wants to have a leadership position in the green turn. In this sense, the battle for a green new deal, which promotes energy conversion in favour of an increasingly widespread use of renewable sources, turns out to be central in the action of this Government. It is no coincidence, in fact, that the environmental theme has characterized the discussion and the confrontation during the formation of the current Executive and the action of this Government and that it is a fundamental point of the new majority. We have no left, ladies and gentlemen, but to make a concrete commitment to the country and our children in full respect for the future of entire generations. We have an obligation to be a result of words and to turn into concrete acts and measures that have been discussed for years. This is exactly what we are discussing this morning and we will be voting on it shortly. The purpose of the draft law before us is to replace vehicles and equipment supplied at certain airports with other ones powered by electricity, hybrid or hydrogen, with a view to a drastic and increasingly important reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and with the will to remain firmly anchored to respect for development and environmental sustainability. The provisions of the measure oblige all parties operating in the so-called air-side, excluding public bodies, to replace or convert the means powered by the so-called combustion engines in favour of other means with electric, hybrid or hydrogen power supply, providing, moreover, the airport management companies with the obligation to carry out the necessary charging or refueling facilities for vehicles. This is certainly a first and important step. Of course, the measure will not be enough to put us in a position to achieve important and significant results, but, as always happens, it is the sum that makes the total and therefore also this measure sets itself in this direction. I believe that there has been no possibility in this House for the way in which the measure has been taken, so that by choosing the seat in the Commission, there has also been no possibility in this House, taking into account the change in the executive that has taken place in the meantime, of being able to operate for its improvement. I hope that in the passage that will be in the House there will be the conditions to be able to carry out a further deepening of some passages and of some norms of the text in order to be able to improve it further. I believe that we must also consider a number of costs which these operations entail and which have been borne by the operators. I believe that it is worth reviewing the fact that public bodies have no obligation on this matter because I believe that the State, with its different branches and joints, should also set an example and therefore play its part. I also think that we should pay attention to some of the voices we heard during the hearings in the Commission and that they have put them in a non-critical way, but I would say as further suggestions for improving the measure, some proposals. I am referring, for example, to the proposals relating to the honesty of the programme for the replacement or conversion of motor vehicles and equipment powered by endogenous engines and therefore to the suggestion to assess an exemption from the so-called system charges in favour of all recipients of the standard. I think that there are the conditions for improving a measure that fully fits in with the will and vocation of this majority, but I would say in a wider way than Parliament that I believe it has widespread sensitivity on this issue to put in place measures that progressively put our country at the head of the States that want to act concretely, and no longer only with words, in order to improve the climate and the environment where we all live. The issue is important under every côté, in every area. Let's start today with this measure that concerns the main Italian airports; I am sure that there will be conditions and the will to be able to continue also on other areas. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u51	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party is in favour of this measure and, as has also been said by the previous speaker, it is certainly a measure in the wake of the sensitivity that is being expressed in the UN Assembly this week on climate issues; a measure that meets the sensibilities expressed by both the population and the institutions and we hope that something positive will emerge from that House in our direction too. Moreover, it is well known to all that airports are an important element of pressure on the local reality (in environmental, automotive and economic development terms), although of course they favour the best expression. From this point of view, therefore, it is not wrong when it is said that a broader reasoning of system might be appropriate, in order to try to understand how to reduce as much as possible the impacting and friction elements that airport ports create on the territory both as regards the management of airport activities and as regards the residence around or in the vicinity of these important infrastructures. Many of the issues of friction that create airports are precisely related to environmental issues: these days we are investigating to understand how much the airports pollute the surrounding territory. I would also remind you - if it is not known to everyone - that part of the airport charges should be paid (for years they have not) to the municipalities precisely in order to implement measures that reduce the impact of airports on the territory. In any case, it could be useful to have an overall reasoning in order to ensure that there is a harmonious development of these airports on the territory; of course, very important are the infrastructures in support of the ports of call, in order to reduce as much as possible the automotive pressure or of the car traffic. In any case, this is certainly a first step in the right direction and so I am not just referring to the particular week in which the UN General Assembly is held. As I have tried to say before, it is a positive will that goes in the right direction, that is to reduce the environmental criticalities that are around this type of infrastructure. I believe that good work has been done and that in the political forces that have expressed themselves in the competent Commission of the Senate there are elements of positivity that can allow to carry out a broader and comprehensive reasoning in order to seek that harmonious development to which I referred [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u54	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is a small step towards making large airport infrastructures more compatible with the territory. The intention is to regulate, through plans and with the supervision of the National Civil Aviation Authority (ENAC) for the realization of the program, the substitution of means and equipment operating inside the ports of call by means, vehicles and equipment with electric, hybrid or hydrogen supply, with the precise fact that they are available on the market and excluding means of public bodies or those who have to intervene in the emergency. For now this type of plan is previewed in the international ports of call of Rome-Fiumicino, Milan-Malpensa and Venice. In addition to the replacement, charging and storage points are included in the programming. I am talking about a small step, because if it is true that we are not talking about a few means (about 4,000 in Fiumicino, 2,400 in Malpensa and 1,600 in Venice, of which one part, that is about 20 percent, is already equipped with these technologies), it is also true that the big impact in terms of both environmental and acoustic pollution do airplane flights: according to data of 2018 we are talking about about about 840 movements per day in Fiumicino, 530 in Malpensa and 261 in Venice. It can therefore be assumed that the measure is a good start, a good example, to which airport management companies believe they can comply and that they think they can also export to other airports not currently involved in the standard. Certainly, however, it is not enough to solve the problem of nuisances caused by noise and environmental pollution of the territories and citizens involved. That's why I can't help but comment on fanciful flight tax purposes, just for those citizens directly involved and of whom, as mayor, I have repeatedly made my voice heard. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In addition to the increase in taxes, because of this talk (increase in taxation), it must be said that normally a tax of purpose provides, when there is a minimum of common sense, that a good or a service be struck in order to find funds intended to carry out a relevant political action: for example, reclamation consortia apply a tax intended to finance irrigation and soil protection systems from flooding. Of course, an institution or government can apply all the taxes it wants to "squeeze" citizens and we are sure that on this, given the premises with taxes on flights, orange juice, ATMs and snacks, you will give the best of yourself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But will you explain to us the sense of taxing air flights, the chinotto and the Buondì to pay the professors? So why not finance infrastructure, social assistance or school transport? No, you prefer a specific category. We note that the first idea of this Government is the genius of the modern re-enactment of the ancient mill tax. If you copy from abroad, at least do it well, so prove that you don't even know how to copy. In the Netherlands, Germany and France, taxes, including heavy taxes, have been decided on passengers and air freight, but with a clear aim: to reduce the environmental impact of air traffic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Instead, you tax flights, the chinotto and the Fiestas, confirming that the 5 Star Movement has passed from the Government of change, which wanted to reduce taxes, to the government of Vinavil attached to the armchairs, which, on the wave of the worst policy of the so-called first Republic, wants instead to tarass the citizens rather than have the courage to relaunch the economy with a real tax shock: imposed to 15% to increase demand and, therefore, production and jobs. I, as mayor of a Municipality bordering an airport (in particular that of Orio al Serio, third Italian port of call), have followed for ten years all the regulations in this regard, trying to protect the territory and the residents with a development of the port of call compatible with the surrounding territory. From this point of view, electric vehicles are well coming within airports, but, on the basis of an elementary common sense, I would have expected to see the revenue of this new imminent tax on the reduction of air and noise pollution, in particular the areas most affected by air traffic disruptions. On the other hand, the Minister of Education, University and Research intervenes fully in the field of transport and the environment only to make a good appearance with his colleagues, since he is a teacher, without even thinking about the protection of the environment itself. As mayor - now ex - of a municipality where for a hundred times a day the planes pass a few tens of meters from the roofs of the palaces, I am not pleased that you go to tarassare the passengers without that on my territory falls a minimum compensation. In fact, I don't even want to make up new taxes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Just for your information: the 47 Italian airport municipalities are already on credit with the State of several tens of millions of euros for the tax on the municipal boarding introduced in 2005 and that only a small part has been destined to the territories around the ports of call. Having said that, I declare that the vote of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione will be in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u57	IRON (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration is empty: it proves that in the explanations of vote we have talked about everything (about the pollution of the world and the Amazon forest), but we do not go into any more detail on the subject. It is a pure edittal norm: it says nothing and does not sanction, limiting itself to a declaration of principle. I wonder if, from the point of view of legislative technique, a bill that says absolutely nothing makes sense on such a subject. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I will try to look into some of the issues. I believe that the environmental impact, in terms of pollution, generated by the airports, mainly those urbanized, within the cities, as recalled a moment ago by the senator who preceded me (let's think of the airports of Bergamo and Naples). Airports outside urban centres, in fact, have a reduced impact. The measure considers only three intercontinental gates: Milan-Malpensa, Rome Fiumicino and Venice. When it comes to intercontinental gates, we are talking technically about airports that have a presupposition upstream, that is, an intercontinental company that is located there. We need to analyse what is happening in Italy (and we look forward to the proposals that the new Minister - whom we wish him well - will make us, especially with regard to the air transport sector). Gates, so-called hubs, make sense where there is a company that identifies them as a base of operation and departure. We risk not facilitating our company from the economic point of view, with three mini-hubs, as defined in the airport jargon. To have a hub you need a company that identifies that airport as a center (hub means center) and has rays (so-called spokes), which are the airports of the territory that feed it. We don't have a reference company. Proof of this is that today we are the subject of vassal of the main European companies (Lufthansa, Air France and British Airways). This is a subject which, from a strategic point of view, calls the Government to a precise responsibility for the future. It is also said that airports pollute: it is true, I think it is before everyone's eyes. But the measure refers only to the air-side area, so it makes a distinction that there is not physically: it is not that where there is the air-side there is a physical limit for which on the other side it does not pollute. The means of state bodies are also excluded. Colleagues, in an airport there are more state agencies operating within the so-called air-side: Police, Fire Department, ENAC, Customs, Finance Guard, Polaria, Red Cross, Carabinieri and more. These are rightly excluded, because obliging state bodies to convert the means operating in the airside of an airport to the new features would have resulted in a small, ad hoc financial maneuver. But then, if pollution itself is an objective and dangerous fact, we do not understand this distinction. This comes from a European directive which obliges Member States to adopt a national strategic framework. We did, but it's, even in this case, "funny" stuff. There are no elements that can really determine this. I invite the new Minister De Micheli to take hold of the serious and incomplete topic of air transport in our country; it involves the "General States" of Italian air transport, because this is one of the competitive levers that, if we do not improve, risks for the future to marginalize our country even more. Today Italy is practically occupied by European companies: British Airways, Air France, KLM, Lufthansa: we are residual. We have a growing air traffic and charter in our country, but we don't have a company. I believe that this government has a moral obligation for the country to try to give those answers that previous governments have not been able to give on this subject. The measure under consideration, Mr President, does not provide for sanctions, so that nothing will happen at the airport which will not comply with these three. It's a pure edittal norm, fried air. Three airports on our country's 38: another "fuffa." State entities are excluded: other "fuffa'. Only the air-side part and not the land-side part: but do you really think that it is the mechanical engine of a escalator that pollutes at the airport and not, for example, the parking of an aircraft? What are we talking about? This means not knowing the matter, not knowing what happens inside an airport. It would have been more correct, out of respect, to withdraw this measure. It doesn't have any logic. For this reason, Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will abstain firmly on this measure, precisely because it is a pure edittal norm, one of many, which we hope this new majority will not apply, as has been done lately. Here is the hand, the specific will of the Movimento 5 Stars to continue making ads, so nothing happens at all: ads, ads, ads. We abstain with conviction. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u60	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, allow me to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Di Girolamo, for her successful work, which has given her the collegial mandate by all the members of the Commission, including for her contribution to this important measure on the environment: small steps towards a green strategy. Just these days in the squares around the world thousands of young people are reminding us that it is essential to provide urgently for a sharp change of course in order to safeguard our planet. We must be aware of the great responsibility we have towards the next generations in implementing all the necessary and urgent policies for the protection of the environment, from the smallest to the most articulated ones, because it is not only the international agreements that impose deadlines for us to adapt to the reduction of emissions of pollutants: our common sense requires us to do so. Among the many measures to be taken in different sectors to combat the phenomenon of climate change, triggered by harmful emissions, airports are certainly among the most important. The aviation sector currently accounts for 2% of all global emissions and is one of the most growing sectors at global level. Only in 2019 it is estimated that almost 40 million flights will depart from all world airports; we are talking, therefore, about one hundred thousand flights a day. No doubt we all know that the aircraft is the most polluting means of transport for obvious reasons. According to a study by the British daily "The Guardian" a single long-distance flight produces more CO2 than an inhabitant of one of the seventy least industrialized nations on the planet produces in a year. Even a short distance flight, such as London-Edinburgh, produces more carbon dioxide than a Somali or Ugandan citizen in a whole year. And this is not the end: for every plane that takes off and lands a whole series of vehicles move in the so-called air-side at the service of these operations. Let us think, for example, of the connection traffic to and from terminals or cargo areas. It follows that also the traffic of passengers and goods on land generates enormous amounts of CO2 also in the airport areas. We talk about buses, cars, motorboats both for drinking water and for the discharge of toilets, elevators, luggage belts, stairs, trailers, tractors, diesel barrels, tow trucks, cranes, generators, sweepers and ambulances just to name a few. The new technologies today allow us to design a green turning point for our ports of call, given the wide availability on the market of airport vehicles with electricity, hybrid or hydrogen supply. A turning point that involves the replacement of all vehicles and equipment used daily for ground operations powered by endothermic motor, mainly diesel, with new and modern environmentally sustainable means: a very important number of vehicles circulating. In Malpensa Airport alone we talk about 1,300 fixed vehicles in the air-side on an annual basis that every day move continuously, far and wide of the airport chair, and that today, in order to refuel, must go to the nearest point, while the electric charging columns, for example, can be placed anywhere. Without forgetting the importance of the simultaneous reduction of noise impact. No matter how little it may seem compared to how much it pollutes a single plane, in this as in many other areas it will be just a lot of small tricks to make the difference. In a first phase the measure will have to be implemented in the intercontinental gates of Rome-Fiumicino, Milan-Malpensa and Venice (which, we remember, generate alone a movement equal to 40 percent of the passenger traffic of all Italy, that in 2018 has exceeded 185 million people), with the hope to extend it, in the shortest possible time, to all the other airports of our Country. The measure falls within the scope of the objectives of Directive 94 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 2014 which aims to establish a common framework of measures for the establishment of an infrastructure for alternative fuels in the European Union in order to minimise dependence on oil and mitigate the environmental impact in the transport sector. The measure has been very well received by the operators of the three hubs concerned who already have valid percentages of use of the electric means but which are not yet absolutely sufficient. The bill at our examination provides that ENAC prepares the program for the replacement or conversion of vehicles, while the operators of the airports will bear the cost and the realization of the special charging systems. Finally, I would like to point out that the measure has been enriched by contributions from members of our technology platform Rousseau, which once again confirms itself as an incomparable flywheel to bring out ideas and ideas from citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These contributions were taken into account in the rewording of the amendments during the work carried out in the Commission. That is why I am voting in favour of this measure on behalf of the Movimento 5 Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u61	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 867. The rapporteur, Senator Rufa, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u63	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration by the government, approved with amendments and additions in the preparation of the 12th Commission of the Senate, contains provisions for the protection of the safety of health professionals and, as added in the drawing up (both in the title and in the heading of the article and in the various points of the article), for the social and health professions. Article 1 of the draft law provides for the establishment of a National Observatory on the safety of health and social and health professionals. Article 2, inserted in the drawing-up, lays down aggravated penalties for cases of serious or serious personal injury to personnel engaged in a health or socio-health profession or to persons in charge of public service, either in the act or because of the performance of their duties or of the service at public or private health and socio-health facilities. Article 3 includes among the common aggravating circumstances of the offence the fact that the traders have committed the crime with violence or threat to health and social health professions in the performance of their duties. Article 4, inserted in the drawing up, excludes offences of beatings and personal injury committed by violence or threat to the detriment of the aforementioned persons in the performance of their duties from the scope of the cases punishable only by a complaint of the offended person. Article 5 provides for financial invariance clauses. More specifically, the institution at the Ministry of Health of the said National Observatory and the definition of its duration and composition, as well as the manner in which the body reports on the results of its activity to the Departments concerned, are entrusted to a decree of the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Ministers of the Interior and the Economy and Finance, after agreement in the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, to be issued within three months of the date of entry into force of this Law (Article 1, paragraph 1). In any case, the composition of the body must include the presence of: representatives of the Regions; a representative of the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), for the purposes referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 below; representatives of the Ministries of the Interior, Defence, Justice and Labour and Social Policies; the professional bodies concerned, industry organisations and patient associations. References to the latter three categories, as well as to Agenas and the Ministry of Defence, have been included in the drafting process. The body shall be set up without new or increased public finance charges. Participation in the same does not give entitlement to the payment of any refund or payment, however called. The Centre shall be entrusted with the following tasks: to monitor incidents of violence committed against operators in the health and social health professions in the performance of their duties, including by acquiring regional data on the extent and frequency of the phenomenon and on situations of risk or vulnerability in the working environment (paragraphs 1 and 2 and 3). These data are acquired with the support of the National Observatory of Good Practices on Health Security - established, at Agenas, pursuant to Article 3 of Law No 24 of 8 March 2017 and the Ministerial Decree of 29 September 2017 - and professional orders. The original text, thus reworded in writing, referred to the support of Agenas. In particular, it is expected (comma 3, inserted in the drafting) that the National Observatory for Good Practices on Health Safety, through Agenas, will transmit to the new observatory the relevant data acquired by the regional centres for the management of health risk and the safety of the patient (established pursuant to article 2, paragraph 4, of the aforementioned law n. 24). The task is: to monitor the sentinel events that may give rise to events committed with violence or threat to the workers' health and social health professions in the performance of their duties (Article 1 (b), paragraph 1, introduced in writing); to promote studies and analyses for the formulation of proposals and measures suitable to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments (letter c), paragraph 1); to monitor the implementation of the prevention and protection measures provided for by the regulations on safety at the workplace (according to the following point (d)); to promote the dissemination of good safety practices of operators in the health and social and health professions (letter e), introduced in writing). The new Observatory relates to issues of common interest to the abovementioned National Observatory on Good Practices on Health Safety, which covers health risk and good practice on health safety. By 31 March of the year following the reference year, the Minister for Health (comma 4) shall send Parliament an annual report on the work carried out by the new Observatory. The news referred to in Article 2 - Article inserted, as mentioned above, in the drawing-up - extends to cases of serious or serious personal injury to personnel engaged in a health or socio-health profession or to persons in charge of public service, either in the act or because of the performance of their duties or of the service at public or private health and socio-health facilities, the aggravated penalties provided for in the corresponding cases of injury caused to an official in the public order service at sporting events. These penalties consist of four to ten years imprisonment for serious injuries and eight to sixteen years imprisonment for serious injuries. It is recalled that, in general, serious and serious injuries, as defined in Article 583 of the Criminal Code, are expected to be in prison from three to seven years and from six to twelve years respectively. The novel referred to in Article 3 shall include among the common aggravating circumstances of the offence the fact that the traders have committed the crime with violence or threat to health and social health professions in the performance of their duties. The explanatory report of the original bill notes that the aggravating circumstance proposed overlaps only partially - also considering that not all health (or socio-health) structures are attributable to the criminal public sphere - to another already in force as referred to in Article 61, first paragraph, number 10), of the penal code, consisting of having committed the fact against a public official or a person in charge of a public service, either in the act or because of the performance of the duties or of the service. The news referred to in Article 4 - inserted, as mentioned above, in the drawing up - excludes offences of beatings and personal injury committed by violence or threat to the health and social health professions in the performance of their duties from the scope of the cases punishable only by a complaint of the person offended. Finally, Article 5 lays down clauses on the invariance of public finance charges. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u64	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u65	Mr President, this draft law, which lays down safety provisions for health and social security professionals in the performance of their duties, in the new revised text, following the adoption of the amendments, comes to this House today at its sitting on 9 July from 12 to 12 July. Senate commission in writing. The bill n. 867 was strongly desired by the former Minister of Health, Giulia Grillo, [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , as well as colleagues from the Senate Health Commission, which until a few weeks ago I had the honour of chairing and who worked hard. This bill was assigned to the Health Commission at the end of November and in less than ten months, despite a budget law, despite election campaigns and a government that has fallen, arrives in the Chamber today. This bill is addressed to all health care workers, women and men who take care of our patients night and day. [[Applause from Senator Rufa]] , even if I don't like to talk about patients, but about people: all those who turn to our National Health Service to be cured and healed. The measure currently consists of five articles and stems from the need to identify measures to prevent and combat acts of violence to the detriment of operators in the health and social health professions, categories of people who now with constant frequency, weekly, or even daily, seriously prejudice their physical and professional safety. In summary, Article 1 provides for the establishment of the National Observatory on the Safety of Operators in Health and Social Health Occupations. It provides that within three months of the entry into force of the law, by decree of the Minister of Health, after agreement with the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the aforementioned Observatory is established at the Ministry of Health, in order to carry out the prescribed tasks indicated in detail below: to monitor the episodes of violence (often not denounced, but that are on the agenda and that many among doctors, nurses and health workers are often afraid to report); to monitor the sentinel events that can give rise to events committed with violence or threat to the damage of the exhibitors the health and social health professions; to monitor the implementation of the measures of prevention and protection to guarantee the levels of safety at the workplace, pursuant to Legislative Decree 9 April 2008, n. 81; to promote the spread of good practices in the safety of the exhibitors the health and social-health professions. The article also provides that the Observatory will also benefit from the support of the National Observatory for Good Health Safety Practices established at the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) and professional bodies. Article 2 amends Article 583-c of the Criminal Code, which regulates serious or serious injuries to a public official, in the sense that it extends its scope by providing for the addition of the following paragraph: The same penalties shall apply in the event of serious or serious personal injury caused to workers in a health or socio-health profession or to persons in charge of public service, either in the act or because of the performance of their duties or of the service at public or private health and socio-health facilities. The following Article 3 introduces the integration of Article 61 of the Criminal Code, in the sense that it adds paragraph 11-f, in order to provide for an aggravating circumstance for those who commit the event with violence or threat to the health and social health professions in the performance of their duties. Article 4 lays down rules on procedural matters and provides for the following amendment: In the first paragraph of Article 581 of the Penal Code, the following shall be inserted after the words: "to the plaintiff of the offended person": "unless the aggravating circumstance provided for in Article 61, number 11-g) " is used. And then: In the second paragraph of Article 582 of the Penal Code, the following shall be inserted after the words "as provided for in the Articles": Finally, Article 5, in line with the indications of financial neutrality that characterize the contents of the articles summarized above, reiterates that the implementation of the law under consideration does not result in new or greater burdens for public finance, in the sense that it is provided through the human, instrumental and financial resources already available to existing legislation. With this I wish all those who are working to ensure our citizens' health at the moment. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure in the text put forward by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u69	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the occurrence of acts of violence in the health sector is, unfortunately, a well-known phenomenon which goes back a long time, as we have also heard in the course of the intervention of the representative of the Government. Yet, despite the many requests received so far from the healthcare professionals, this bill is the first concrete act prepared by the Government to strengthen the protection of professionals, which - as unfortunately the almost daily news shows us - need specific measures dedicated to them, precisely because of the delicacy of their service placed for the benefit of the community. This first measure is therefore certainly appropriate, but not yet sufficient. Although the draft law has been improved with the help of almost all political forces during the examination in the Commission, it is still limited to introducing measures which the Italia Viva Group considers to consider only the beginning of a path that will necessarily have to be enriched by other more concrete measures, which effectively protect the safety of those who work, often under conditions of extreme discomfort, in the health sector. In order to enter more into the substance of the matter, considering that the Ministry of Health does not have certain data on all episodes of violence to the detriment of the operators in the national territory, in the bill it is proposed to establish a National Observatory on the safety of all the staff of the health, with the presence of representatives of the regions and the state administrations concerned, but also of representatives of the world of the health professions. The Centre will be responsible for monitoring incidents of violence committed against health professionals during their duties and for promoting studies and analyses for the formulation of proposals and measures to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments and to monitor the implementation of prevention measures taken to ensure safety in the workplace. On the other hand, it has been envisaged as a specific aggravating penalty for committing acts of violence and threats against healthcare professionals: a measure which confers a particularly strengthened protection regime on healthcare professionals, certainly capable of increasing the deterrent from the commission of such crimes. If the measures introduced by this bill are certainly acceptable, the further commitment that Italy Viva-PSI intends to request from the Government is to affect, with specific measures and no longer at zero cost, the concrete working conditions of health workers: this in the awareness that one of the causes of the many episodes of violence is to be identified in the situation of particular stress determined by the malfunctions of the entire health system and, in particular, the network of emergency and emergency-emergency. Only through concrete investments - I am addressing the Government - in recruiting all health professionals, as well as in the modernisation of health facilities - the experience of many episodes of aggression shows that today it is outdated or insecure for the workers who work there - will finally be able to give dignity and security to an activity that is often rendered under conditions limit. Furthermore, the urgent need for hospitals and health care centres in general to receive more attention from the law enforcement agencies should not be overlooked, through specific prevention actions which cannot be excluded from the physical presence of as many security workers as possible. Here too - as is clearly understood - there will be a need to commit resources so that hospitals can actually receive concrete supervision, which the repetition of acts of aggression makes objectively unavoidable. Therefore, in the knowledge that the measure under consideration constitutes only a starting point, still partial and, therefore, to be strengthened with future and further concrete actions, Italy Viva-PSI expresses its favorable vote, to which will follow a concrete commitment to stimulate the action of the Government on the measures of which we have just said. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u72	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Sileri for his work. This is a text on which we have worked hard in the Commission and which we have tried, as far as possible, to improve. With regard to the attention to the professions in general, to the various professional orders and to the categories, in our Italy for too long has neglected to represent worthily a whole world of people who, since the morning, do their duty, and do so with dedication and self-denial. It is a world that the State does not see, recognize and qualify worthyly. This, however, is a broader and wider discourse. As far as the health professions are concerned, there is a whole universe of motivation that leads to more attention being paid to health professionals. The Brothers of Italy Group has, together with Senator Rauti and other signatories, deposited its own proposal which contained, as a salient point, the recognition of the status of public official to health workers in general, as far as we were concerned, and in particular for those of the public service and even more particularly for those of the emergency-emergency who, in the performance of their duties, precisely carry out a public service. This universe would have represented in a better way the need to cover and guarantee, in the performance of their duties, such professionals. The text does not provide for this, but contains a number of penalties for crimes committed to the detriment of such operators. We, of course, agree deeply with the spirit and we can, of course, only vote in favour of it and, therefore, announce the vote in favour of the Group of Brothers of Italy. However, it is quite clear that we are really only at the beginning of that path to be taken for a worthy and complete protection of health professionals, starting with those of public health. We do not have much confidence in yet another observatory - we are all deeply observed - and we believe that the one provided for by the measure will not be implemented. The invariance of expenditure, compared to this, gives us almost a certainty of what will happen, namely that this observatory will remain only on paper and will produce nothing. Regardless of what is an easy prophecy, we believe that there really would be much more to be done. However, if we want to see the half-full bottle, we hope that at least we will allow ourselves the opportunity to improve and work on the half-empty bottle, with our usual spirit which also dictated the choice of voting in favour of the measure under consideration. The operators have long been waiting for the State to manifest itself in terms of protection against them, compared to what happens to them during the long nights of service at the hospital structures of the country and also during their exits: just think of the medical guard, who climbs through the dark streets of the campaign of our beautiful Italy, or the public veterinarian who finds himself having to inspect the stable of a farmer armed with pitchforks - as we have been told - absolutely displeased by the inspection itself. It is all a world - as I said at the beginning of my speech - of serious professionals, of great operators, of people whom we have trained and qualified and who we pay, albeit little, and whose protection we obviously have to provide. For all these reasons, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group will be overall in favour and I would add that we will propose our legislative text to finally obtain what we believe must and can be the solution, namely the recognition of the qualification of public officials in the performance of their duties to health workers at least public, but - as far as I am concerned - in general to the operators of the National Health Service. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u75	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, first of all I would like to wish the Undersecretary a good job, which I am convinced will make an important contribution. Our Group supports and will vote in favour of this measure: a necessary measure in view of the progressively critical situation in which health and social and health workers are located. I take advantage of this, in line with the speeches made by my previous colleagues, to say that we know very well that this is a necessary and fair measure, but it requires a strategy of intervention. I am confident that a new phase on health can be opened. There are some fundamental points. Criminals are criminals and must be prosecuted; but if a medical guard is alone, there is a problem; if there is no reorganisation of the sector in the emergency room and the staff is not enough to handle the emergency, there is a problem. The first measures that - in my opinion - we should take, in order to meet the objective that we all share and which inspire this measure, must be aimed at finally overcoming all those bureaucratic and wrong obstacles that block the dynamics of staff in the health sector. We have real emergencies. I know that you, Mr. Undersecretary, are very sensitive and share this view. One of the first acts to be put in place is to invest significant resources to increase the internship grants, if we want to solve the problem of the missing staff and doctors. Another issue is the reorganization of emergency aid, perhaps with deep action on white codes and other emergency codes. It has become inevitable to distinguish paths. Even so, we protect the safety of our staff. We need, then, a qualitative leap. For me, this measure is a first act. We now have all the conditions to make this qualitative leap. Health is a subject that can unite this House. I know colleagues from all political forces who agree on the points I have outlined. I wonder, therefore, if it is not the time to make - in this House for example - a joint reflection, as I have already proposed in a previous speech, on the problems of health and, perhaps, to succeed, on two or three strategic issues, in giving a signal to the country, to operators and professionals who, in an extraordinary way, carry out a job in situations of serious difficulty and to relaunch the idea of the Universalist Health Service. It's a great theme. It is a distinctive element of the country, which we can achieve by putting together not only the forces of majority, but - I am convinced - also those of opposition. It's possible. Let's try it. It would be an innovation compared to the past that would perhaps also give value to the work of this House. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Di Marzio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u78	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the situation of the health and social and health professions, and about the great problem of attacks on staff. Unfortunately, it is now almost daily that we hear reports of such acts. The phenomenon is increasingly under the spotlight and unfortunately does not seem to stop. This is a problem that is taking on very broad and dangerous contours, because unfortunately we have also witnessed very serious acts, which have led to the death of people. Precisely for this reason it is good that the legislator hastens and addresses the problem in a definitive way, finding solutions also of a normative type. It is obvious that common sense would always be the best way to go, but where we cannot find it, it seems to me that the norm should indicate the way. We are finally in this House dealing with the terms of the matter. I greet the Undersecretary, who has been President of the 12th The Commission has clearly outlined what has been done in this area. Often, during the hearings we held listening to representatives of the health professions and trade union associations, we found moments of agreement. Everyone has told us that this is a very important issue that we must resolve. Anaao himself told us that 65 percent of doctors, responding to an internal survey, claimed to have been the victim of aggression. This is, therefore, an important issue to be addressed. The most alarming is the attacks on doctors who work in the emergency room - as some colleagues have already said - and above all on the emergency and alarm service, which responds to the 118 telephone number, the percentages of which are increasing and reaching as much as 80%. However, aggressors are often familiar with patients or people who have not had a satisfactory response to their needs. Now, in addition to having rules, it is important - in my opinion - that we return to the situation of conflict management. This is another important note too. It is true that situations of violence are being created, but it is also true that we should train and educate health workers and citizens to deal with conflicts that may arise in certain situations. Fortunately, it is often possible to reach a conclusion and a mediation, but we must understand that the aggressions sometimes take place because the doctor, experienced by hours of work, by the lack of turnover and by the overwork, escapes a word too much from which then the conflict arises. These are issues that we should address from a regulatory point of view and, above all, training, which plays a very important role in this area. In the Commission we have also included social workers in the text, because the situation is not at all rosy for this health profession as well. In 2017, in fact, a research was developed that involved as many as 20,000 assistants. In this profession, although there is an increase in forms of physical violence, no major incidents have been reported. They are increasingly at risk, especially in services to protect minors and to support adults in difficulty. Colleagues, the topic of safety at work is very important and above all that of the safety of the worker, which must be included in the agenda of the government, of the new government that faces. We can also make our contribution today by trying to approve the rule in our examination. By entering into the substance of the text that we are preparing to examine, it provides for the establishment at the Ministry of Health of the National Observatory for the Safety of Operators of Health and Social Health Occupations. This Observatory, which seems to be a simple matter, is actually very important; it will have to monitor the incidents of violence committed against exhibitors in the health and social and health professions; it will have to propose to the Minister the adoption of appropriate measures to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments and, finally, to verify the implementation of the prevention and protection measures provided for in the existing provisions to guarantee safety levels in the workplace. This is a very important act, because I believe that even now, despite legislation on safety at work that is important (a fundamental framework law has been enacted), often and willingly risk assessment documents are not carried out as they should be. I am referring, for example, to the issue of safety for medical guards. Because of the organization of safety, but also of the reorganization in the health companies, more and more often the places where the medical guard is carried out are a bit delocalized and those who carry out the service (often and willingly are women) think that they are not safe. Therefore, drawing up a specific risk assessment document with respect to those places or performing the service in question in a more appropriate place would solve the problem. Of course, this is part of the full autonomy of health care companies, but we must also pay attention to this and, therefore, to the safety of the workplace and to a greater risk assessment than to such realities. In the 12th Commission - as has been said before - we have done an excellent job; we have made improvements, such as considering existing good practices: some regions are already working on this, but it is right that all regions should talk to each other to exchange good practices. In addition, it is good that employee representation associations have been added to the Observatory and that the rule on the detection of sentinel events which may lead to violence is also approved. Having said this, the Observatory has many tasks: to monitor the episodes of violence committed against health professionals; to monitor the sentinel events (which were added during the examination of the draft law) which may result in acts of violence or threat to the operators' health and social health professions in the performance of their duties; to promote - also important - studies and analyses for the formation of proposals and measures to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments. As I said before, this could also be achieved through a good drafting of the risk assessment document. The task is also to monitor and promote the dissemination of good practice - which is added during the examination of the drafting measure - on the safety of health professionals. The Centre shall acquire regional data on the extent and frequency of the phenomenon, including with regard to the situation of risk or vulnerability in the working environment, with the support of the National Observatory for Good Health Safety Practices established at the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas). In fact, we have an existing Observatory on the safety of health professions at the head of Agenas, the body overseen by our Ministry of Health. We always return to the fact that the working environment is a very important place where the profession takes place. The National Observatory for Best Practices on Health Safety will have to work with this new Observatory. It must also be said here that the other important addition to the text concerns the aggravating factors in relation to aggression. We therefore come back to Article 2, which extends to cases of serious or serious personal injury to workers engaged in a health or socio-health profession or to persons in charge of public service, either in the act or because of the performance of their duties or of the service at public or private health and socio-health facilities, the aggravated penalties provided for in the corresponding cases of injuries caused to an official in public order service at sporting events. Therefore, the provisions of Article 583-c of the Criminal Code have also been extended to health professions. Article 3 provides that having committed the matter with violence or threat to health and social security professionals in the performance of their duties is one of the aggravating circumstances provided for in Article 61 of the Criminal Code. As you can see, the aggravating factors have been added to those who commit aggression, but I do not think this is the panacea and there is much more to be added. Article 4 amends the criminal code on procedural matters. In conclusion, I would like to add one very important point: we in the Democratic Party will vote in favour, but - in my opinion - this legislation can and must be improved, partly because Article 5 unfortunately shows a lack of financial resources. We would like to see additional funds added, even if only to be redistributed to the regions, to support training courses for staff as this, unfortunately, is a recurring theme. Our aim is to complete this measure that the health professions expect; to guarantee citizens the right to care and to the doctor the right to take care in safety. We also need a new culture that reconstructs the relationship of trust between doctor and patient and enhances the work of doctors who are working hard. It is a valuable work that saves the lives of all of us every day and allows, among many difficulties, the functioning of our health system thanks to dedication and professionalism; a health system... president. Conclude, Senator Boldrini. BOLDRINI (PD). I'm finishing, Mr. President. I remember once again that our health system is among the best in the world not only for quality, but above all for its universality. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u81	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, government gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the health and social and health sectors - particularly in emergency services and psychiatric facilities - physical aggression has reached 48%, while insults and threats are a constant one. Among the causes is certainly the excessive waiting time for health services, especially in first aid shelters, where the timing can be really stressful and, regardless of the severity of the case, are perceived as a matter of life or death. Attacks occur for 65 percent of cases during nightlife hours and prognosis days do not always determine the severity of the damage. A missing gunshot - for example - does not mean that there is no harm or danger. Risk factors for the health professions are determined by the highly interactive relationship between the staff, the patient and all family members who are, in that specific context, in a state of vulnerability and frustration. The phenomenon grows if they are psychiatric or psychotic patients, as they are characterized by loss of control, especially if they are under the influence of alcohol or psychotropic or narcotic substances. Intuitively, 34 percent of the cases of violence committed to the workers' health professions occur in psychiatric clinics. During the night of June 18, in the psych ward of the hospital in Livorno, a patient in psychotic crisis bit off a finger to the nurse. How much is a nurse's finger worth? How much is the life of Paola Labriola, killed with 50 stabbed by a patient while serving in the mental health center on September 4, 2013? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] An announced death. This is why it is considered that the National Health Service, unlike other areas of work, has a dual responsibility: to take care of and protect the patient, as well as to protect the safety and psychophysical well-being of health and socio-health personnel, as well as public service personnel in health and socio-health facilities, whether public or private. The League also intends to support the idea that healthcare professionals should be trained in terms of how to communicate to patients and especially their family members, so as to contain the emotional reactions they necessarily express as a result of traumatic news. As a Senator of the League, but also as a psychologist, I hope that department and staff managers can provide training courses so that healthcare professionals can limit and manage the emotions that accompany health problems. Dear Senators, when it comes to health workers, veterinary doctors must be included, specifically the veterinarians of agro-zootechnics, sometimes forced to operate on the margins of legality and of the code of ethics, especially what is involved in the slaughter, in some areas of severe social and cultural distress, where they are employed in rural enterprises. These doctors work alone, without assistance; the figure of the veterinarian is seen as interference in production and, therefore, kept under constant pressure of threat, even of death, of damage to personal property, intimidated with mafia-shaped death signs, such as receiving the slaughtered body of their pet on the door of the house. 12:00 p.m. (Marin followed). This alienating reality is reason for impoverishment of veterinary staff and consequently implies loss of performance. There is a need for a health reorganisation of the structures, which must be homogeneous throughout the national territory. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione therefore strongly supports the project of the National Observatory on the safety of exhibitors in the health and social health professions, in order to identify the risk factors and put in place the organizational and structural strategies that favor and legitimize the staff to promptly report the episodes of violence suffered, to promote interventions and measures to eliminate or reduce risks and to facilitate coordination with the Forces of Order or other subjects that can provide valid and active support. The League calls for a policy of zero tolerance towards acts of violence in health services and in this sense it supports the provisions contained in this bill. There is a need for regulatory action that aims to increase the penalty for crimes that undermine the safety and psychophysical health of workers in the health and social health context. It is the only way forward for a complete and renewed dimension of the way of prevention and care in the workplace. All this said, I announce on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione the vote in favour and thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u84	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of intimidation and violence against health workers, doctors, paramedics, veterinarians, pharmacists and sometimes other patients, in constant and worrying increase, confirms that we are in a state of real emergency. Daily reports record that episodes of violence take place in varied contexts, isolated within notoriously critical realities or in areas of the country with a strong presence of organized crime. In all situations, however, the operator is alone. In the course of their work, health workers are exposed to many factors that can be harmful, such as aggression, murder or other criminal events, which make prevention and protection measures of workers no longer procrastinable. On average there are three daily attacks reported in Italy by healthcare professionals and only in the last year the violence amounts to about 1,200 cases. Women are the main victims of physical violence. I still remember my experience as a young doctor, when I was doing medical guards in isolated outposts, of course with public holidays or night shifts: every time the bell sounded, there was a state of anxiety assailing me, because at the time there were certainly no video intercoms, no cell phones. Dr. Labriola was remembered, killed six years ago in Puglia, when politics began to question what he could do for these growing phenomena. Of course, this case in particular had made the absence of a body responsible for the protection of safety and prevention dramatically evident and had shown that the many operational difficulties seriously penalise the work of the operators in the sector. For these reasons and to meet the safety requirements of the heartfelt appeals of all health workers, at the beginning of the legislature I presented a specific bill that was not intended to observe as much as to take action to protect the safety of staff and patients in hospitals. In a health care company where the provision of services and services is equivalent to the production of goods, there is also the crisis of the medical-patient trust relationship, with its most worrying consequences such as the spread of violence and the spread of unreliable health information. Where the patient is a consumer, the doctor automatically loses authority and becomes the holder of a shelf knowledge. We therefore need to work hard to recover this report and I hope that the heartfelt appeal will reach the Minister, whom we are waiting for soon in the Commission to know in detail his policy lines in this respect too. Monitoring is important. The Centre's task is to monitor episodes of violence and sentinel events and to promote the dissemination of good practice in the field of health professionals. Of course it is nice to monitor, but the real prevention would be to think seriously about the situation of our health system, less and less financed, more and more leopard-stained, with personnel subjected to massacred shifts for the turnout block, with unacceptable waiting lists, with expectations in the emergency room unimaginable. The lack of trust in the doctor is also due to the fact that you consult Dr. Wikipedia more easily than the professional. It is the false information on the Network that makes the relationship of medical-patient-health care professionals increasingly critical. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, we had worked very well in the Commission. I thank the Undersecretary Sileri, to whom I wish him all my best. In the Health Commission, we have always tried to work not on the basis of our political ideas, but on the basis of a common interest in the well-being and health of our citizens. The measure we are going to vote on, however, is incomplete. I will use a few more minutes to explain this to the doctors, nurses and patients who have requested the intervention of the legislator, perhaps at that moment a little more occupied by other than by the interest of the country. Security is a primary element of each civil society. It is even more so when it comes to the work environment, for operators, for health care, for patients, and it must be ensured through prevention, research and analysis. To date, there is no system or organisation to allow for the rapid exchange of data arising from the activity carried out by one structure rather than another, which operates in the field of health protection. It was therefore necessary to establish an effective operational instrument to bring together all the data derived from territorial activities. The lack of adequate coordination and direction, appropriately based on the analysis of the data arising from the activities carried out on the territory, implies a constant overlap of roles between the various bodies involved in the management of safety and an activity of ineffective sampling, determining for the public administration a non-rational use of human and economic resources, for the users a service not efficient and for the health professionals the having to exercise the profession in constant danger. None of us have ever questioned the good intentions of the Government in setting up the Observatory, but that is not enough. More had to be done and it was regrettable that so many amendments tabled by Forza Italia did not capture the attention of the previous Government, since it was preferable to call the parties concerned into the Ministries rather than to support common sense proposals in the Commission which went in the direction requested by the operators. So much so that the proposals made by the President of the Federation of Doctors accepted to the Viminale were the same in the amendments tabled at my first signature and signed by all my colleagues in my Group. I also hope that it was only a distraction of the former Minister, who would rather have done well to ask his senators how the measure was proceeding in the Commission. We know how it ended, and we hope everyone is coming back on the floor. An objective to be achieved, for example, would have been the process of office by all health care companies that should file a complaint in the event of aggression against their own personnel. This solution would have made it possible to bypass the need to amend Article 357 of the Criminal Code for the recognition of the status of public official to medical and health personnel in the performance of their duties. In addition, it was sufficient to set up some pre-ordered areas of intervention, which would have enabled important risk factors to be tackled effectively. It was possible to rethink the role of care continuity principals or other similar situations of isolation and risk that are no longer sustainable due to the appropriateness of care and therefore also in economic terms. But we know that this is a zero-cost bill. More widespread video surveillance could have been ensured in those locations where the interventions mentioned above could not be easily implemented. It should have been predicted, as it was in my bill, that fixed police garrisons would allow the prompt intervention of the Forces of Order by discouraging the attackers. All this could and had to be done, but I hope it can be done in the future. Instead, with this bill, we merely observe once again. I am surprised that the Democratic Party - the then Democratic Party, because there are now two or three, I do not know - abstained from the Commission, as we did, because they had tabled similar amendments to our own. I believe that, as part of the new majority, the text could have been brought back to the Commission and, within a week, after improving it, brought back to the House. I confess to you, colleagues, that this provision reminds me a little of the joke: "Ma'am, your daughter is a little pregnant." That is, we do, but we do not have the courage to do to the end, because there is not a political line, but only a visible navigation; we always seek consent through the title of a law, but it is devoid of content like an empty box. In any case, between nothing and little we will support the little, so we will vote in favour of this bill for the sake of respect for health workers, who will not be sufficiently protected, but it is still a small step forward. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u87	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that working in the lanes today is equivalent to working in the trenches: a real battlefield in which the fuse of prejudice always stays on. A prejudice that is the result of the lack of confidence generated by decades of deficit management of public health that have allowed the idea to mature in the citizen that the assistance includes few and certain criticalities: an eternal expectation, an inadequate take-over and a treatment not consistent with the sacrifices of a taxpayer. It's not like that, and we know it. We know that those who struggle - because it is a struggle - in the rooms of an emergency room or of any department, working in four to ensure a quality of assistance worthy of a country like ours, have to deal with staff reduced to light, forced to do the work of more operators, having to face at the same time a system unable to perform a proper filter for access to hospital and that has seen the dismantling of territorial networks, fundamental to avoid the overcrowding of our nosocomi. The relationship between doctor and patient, as we said, is a real therapeutic alliance, based on a pact of trust, that allows the patient to become part of his own path of care, sure to have a performance adapted to his or her expectations. It is a relationship of trust with a high emotional involvement, and often the motive of an aggression is precisely the betrayal of these expectations. Chronicles are packed with episodes that tell of attacks on healthcare professionals. We are in the face of a real emergency, and there is no other term to define it. The continuation of the crisis, the enlargement of serious economic and social difficulties to increasingly large sections of the population, the spread of anger and frustration have further exacerbated this phenomenon over the years. To date there are more than 3,000 cases of aggression to healthcare professionals registered on average every year, and are underestimated because in Italy the phenomenon, in most cases, is not intercepted and there are no specific and formalized procedures of detection and reporting. The episodes of physical aggression, in fact, are only the tip of the iceberg of a much more complex phenomenon, which also includes behaviour detrimental to the dignity of the health professional, consisting of insults and threats, because violent behavior must be faced without waiting for the escalation of the physical explosion, recognizing it from its beginnings verbal and less striking, which must never and under no circumstances be overlooked or underestimated. Our doctors, our nurses, the socio-health workers, the very precious volunteers really work in trenches, and they always do it head-to-head and with commendable spirit of sacrifice, aware of the risks they run during every moment of their day. It is a paradox to risk your life in order to save others; risk your life because there are those who have not been able to organize your work: it has not proceeded for years to the legitimate sliding of rankings in order to increase the units of staff needed or was not able to start the competitions or for the consequences of cuts that have mowed the only sector in which you should never and never stop investing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A field to be protected because our doctors and nurses represent a boast, a fundamental resource of the National Health System: they are the true guarantors of Article 32 of the Constitution that establishes the right to the health of citizens, the sacred right to health of all of us. To practice the health profession in Italy means, however, to compensate for the atavistic deficiencies of staff; it means to work often with instruments not always adequate, obsolete; it means to operate between the walls of crumbling buildings and to have to deal with massacred and extraordinary shifts that are now ordinary administration. Performing one's activity in conditions of fear and stress makes the performance delivered less efficient and helps healthcare professionals to generate the so-called burnout syndrome and to spread defensive medicine. Therefore, the whole community will be affected by the attack and will receive a worse service. Therefore, it is necessary to prevent acts of violence against healthcare professionals by implementing measures to eliminate or reduce the risk conditions present through the concrete efforts of the directorates to ensure the safety of their own structures and operators. The acquisition of skills by operators in assessing and managing such events when they occur is also crucial. With this aim FNOPI and FNOMBEO presented the distance course C.A.R.E. (Knowledge, listening, recognition, empathy), which has the task of helping doctors and health workers to intercept certain phenomena and to understand how to put oneself to avoid situations of danger. The professionals of the sector then questioned, outlining the need to review also their relational skills and communication modalities. However, it is up to us today to give a political response to their protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso]] The draft law that we are about to vote on provides for the right and necessary measures to prevent and combat the phenomena of violence to the detriment of health workers, both in the public and private sectors. The National Observatory on the safety of health professionals is set up, thanks to which it will be possible, not only to monitor episodes of violence to the detriment of health professionals in the performance of their duties, but also to promote studies and analyses in order to propose appropriate measures for the removal of risk factors in the most exposed environments. During my work on the text of these months in the Health and Health Commission, together with my colleagues, I have been particularly committed to increasing the penalties for those who suffer from the crime of aggression against staff who are pursuing the profession of health care. In fact, among those provided for in Article 61 of the Criminal Code, an additional burden has been added for those who commit the event with violence or threat to the health professions and the procedure of office has been introduced, even without the complaint of the person offended. The regulatory system will thus be improved by means of two measures, which are both conflicting and deterrent against the perpetuation of violence. The 5 Star Movement today will vote for the approval of this law, an ethical necessity, a political and moral duty aimed at safeguarding the safety of those who protect our health, of those who commit themselves every day, every night and every moment to guarantee the inviolable right to health of all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators D'Alfonso and Rufa.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u88	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u91	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, good morning to all colleagues. I just want to clarify the order of business. I have noted very carefully, Mr President, that in the last fourteen months all colleagues on the other side of this House have pointed out on time, during the sessions of this House, like us, that we were in the majority together with our colleagues on the Movimento 5 Stars, we were acting and, above all, how the representatives of the Government behaved. There wasn't once, not once, in which we weren't told that the members of the government were few - just one - who weren't careful, who weren't watching. I remember Mrs Malpezzi very well, now Undersecretary, President. You asked to speak on the order of business, Senator Faggi. Since government representatives are here, what's the point? BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll get there, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get to the point, because otherwise we don't understand. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll get there if you give me a chance to talk, Mr. President, or else you'll take my time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He doesn't have a time, but a pre-arranged subject, Senator. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). But then let me explain it, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). What I was trying to say is that I remember perfectly with how much precision - even by you, for example, President, in your faculties - the position of the League was lamented, which has often been seen as a party that was not sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you to stick to the order of business, Senator, or else I have to take your word for it. I would ask you to tell me what the point is on the order of business. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). In this situation, now that I am in the minority, I would kindly like, when this new Government sits down and brings matters as important as today's, especially as the last one that saw such a broad parterre, all together to vote, there was the same attention and that the Undersecretaries were seated, since we have no one like Minister Bellanova, who shouted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, it's very clear. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). We don't have that, so we can't do that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u92	Thank you. You will realize that it was not an intervention on the order of business, but it was a request for attention, which is different. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, it is an intervention on the order of business! [[The microphone automatically switches off]] See? He's taking my word off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We cannot turn an intervention of fair political evaluation into an intervention on the order of business. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, it's not! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have a seat, Senator Faggi. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). I stand as they were standing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can keep talking without a microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u95	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, is the fact that the Undersecretaries are not attentive and that there is no adequate presence of the Government is or is not an issue on the order of business? You tell me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u96	We let her do the intervention, but I assure you that the degree of attention of the Undersecretaries is not an argument, because it is difficult to measure, Senator Romeo, if the three representatives of the Government are more or less attentive. [[Comments of Senator Faggi]] But it seems to me that Senator Faggi has carried out her speech abundantly, which was already clear from the first seconds. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, he interrupted me. That's what you do in your house!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u97	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1111. The rapporteur, Senator Ciampolillo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u98	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation signed in October 2016 between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and New Zealand on the other. This agreement, the result of a negotiation process lasting more than two years and intended to replace a joint declaration on relations and cooperation dating back to 2007, aims to enhance bilateral relations at the level of enhanced partnership, creating a legal framework appropriate to regulate political, economic and trade cooperation and sectoral cooperation between the parties. The text, which consists of 60 articles divided into 10 titles, states the willingness of the parties to reaffirm their adherence to democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, and the commitment to intensify dialogue in the fields covered by the agreement at all levels, as well as to cooperate actively within regional and international organisations. The bill of ratification consists of 4 articles. Article 3, in particular, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the implementation of the law of ratification must not result in new or greater burdens on public finances. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with European law and other rules of international law to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u99	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u102	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, when I ask the Presidency for permission to hand over the full text of my speech, I cannot fail to vote in favour of my Group, Italy Viva-PSI, the measure under consideration, which - as the rapporteur recalled - provides for the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand. A measure that will increase the European Union's commitment to New Zealand and, at the same time, provide for greater political and economic involvement of the European Union across the continent of Asia-Oceania. Cooperation on foreign policy, common security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating the illegal trade in small arms and light weapons, combating terrorism, promoting peace and international security, and more generally closer cooperation in terms of research, innovation, education and the fight against organised crime will be envisaged. A whole series of aspects that can only contribute to the improvement of those relationships, already excellent, providing a series of details also in the commercial and economic field. Therefore, Mr President, I am voting in favour of this report, and I would ask for permission for the full text of my speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u105	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I, too, ask you to allow me to deliver the text of my speech, but allow me a couple of lines. First of all, I would like to welcome undersecretary Marina Sereni and congratulate her on her important position, in which we will cooperate and cooperate also for my election to the contingent of elected persons abroad. I therefore wish you good work. With regard to the agreement between the European Union and New Zealand, I would like to stress Article 1, which states that it is intended to establish a strengthened partnership between the parties and to deepen and promote cooperation on issues of mutual interest, in order to reflect shared values and common principles, including by intensifying high-level dialogue. New Zealand is a very interesting country: beautiful from the natural and landscape point of view and a place with great potential in terms of human investment and economic development. The current New Zealand Government is implementing innovative policies both in the field of economic development and social coexistence. The Government of Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, following the serious acts of violence of a few months ago, has implemented integration policies that we will do well to use as an example also to solve the problems we are currently going through in Italy. This agreement contains in itself many of the issues that in recent years the presence of the representative of Italians abroad has brought to Parliament's attention. We need effective cooperation on issues such as research, school, work, social security, economic exchange, facilitated by the presence of many of our fellow countrymen in New Zealand. It is also appropriate to develop reports which already exist in reality and need only be formalised, facilitated and strengthened. Since the implementation of this agreement, which allows us to stimulate political, social and economic exchanges with New Zealand, we have so much to gain. For all these reasons, I am voting strongly in favour of the Democratic Party. Finally, I would like to add the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u108	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the purpose of this Treaty, as the rapporteur has explained, is to establish an enhanced partnership between Italy and the European Union on the one hand and New Zealand on the other. But why are we talking about enhanced partnership? Because a partnership agreement with New Zealand had already been signed in 2007, but what we are about to ratify involves multiple fields of economic and social life in the countries involved and, if properly stimulated, could create interesting opportunities for our businesses. In order to fully understand the importance of this ratification, it is enough to remind this House that the fields of enhanced cooperation range from coordination in foreign and security policy, global development and humanitarian aid to the economy and trade, justice, research, innovation, education, culture and finally energy and transport. As you know, the 5 Star Movement promotes peace and multilateralism as a new approach to our foreign policy, even within the institutional framework of the European Union. These agreements broaden our opportunities because they allow us to relate directly to the signatory country and are a challenge that we must overcome, with a new approach of the country system projected in the international scenario. That is why, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movimento Group in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u111	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this Agreement constitutes a legal framework for the consolidation of bilateral relations between the European Union, Italy as a Member State and New Zealand to replace the joint declaration on relations and cooperation adopted on 21 September 2007. The approval of ratification will certainly facilitate political dialogue and cooperation on foreign and security policy and a possible shared approach to the most important international issues. In addition to consolidating political and trade relations with New Zealand, it will foster the relations of the Union and its Member States with the other countries of Oceania. The PARC will be able to bring economic and commercial benefits to Italy and the Member States of the European Union. The Parties shall intensify cooperation in foreign and common security policy, with the aim of combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, strengthening the fight against terrorism and defending peace. These are the reasons why I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u112	If I can afford a joke in a joke but not too much, we hope that together with the best relationships also the quality of our national rugby team, since the All Blacks are masters and we limp a little. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u113	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1123. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u114	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed in November 2017. The agreement under consideration, the result of negotiations launched in December 2015, aims to contribute to the establishment of the legal and political-institutional framework for cooperation between the European Union and Armenia and aims to optimise the positive results achieved during the previous negotiations for the Association Agreement with the Deep and Deep Free Trade Area. The new agreement is centred on the cornerstones of political dialogue and cooperation in foreign and security policy, trade and business and sectoral cooperation. In particular, the agreement, based on the principles of the market economy, aims to promote cooperation in many areas - from health to the environment, from energy to transport, from culture to social affairs - including specific aspects such as legal cooperation, the fight against money laundering, organised crime and corruption. The bill of ratification consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the implementation of the law of ratification must not result in new or greater burdens on public finances. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with European law and other rules of international law to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u115	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u118	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I ask for permission to deliver the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Garavini (IV-PSI). However, I would like to point out how positive it is that the ratification of the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia, which will strengthen global political and economic cooperation, supporting political and institutional stability in the Republic of Armenia and the relations of peace and border security, promoting policies of good neighbourliness and above all paying particular attention to the protection of rights, specifically of persons belonging to minorities (in view of the history of the country, this is particularly positive). I therefore declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u121	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of an agreement by the Democratic Party which, reading the title, may seem less important, but which is in fact the main instrument of cooperation and cooperation between the countries of the European Union in its entirety and Armenia. This agreement had to be used to remedy the fact that Armenia, being within the Eurasian Economic Union, and thus in enhanced cooperation with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, did not allow the use of instruments of comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreements, the classics of which the European Union essentially makes use of. The agreement is therefore important and, together with the bilateral instruments we have with Armenia, it makes it possible to strengthen relations, which are profitable, from an economic, social and also cultural point of view. Last week the Foreign Affairs Commission, emigration of the Senate met with the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia accompanied by a delegation. From this point of view, therefore, it is good to ratify also an instrument like this, which allows us to collaborate with that area, with which there are very intense relations, but there is also a privileged relationship with Russia. Looking in favour of this instrument and the work that can be done with Armenia, I express our Group's favourable opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u124	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement before us really offers the opportunity to strengthen institutional, economic and commercial relations, but I would also say cultural relations between Armenia, Europe and indirectly Italy. Given the membership of the Republic of Armenia in the Eurasian Economic Union, the Caucasian country could actually serve as a bridge between the European Union and its eastern counterpart. We also believe that the agreement can promote the strengthening of Armenian democratic institutions and the stabilisation of the region itself, which in the past has been damaged by tragic war events. It can also strengthen the global political and economic partnership and cooperation between the parties on the basis of common values and close links, including through greater participation by the Republic of Armenia in the policies and programmes of the EU agencies, thus creating the conditions for ever closer cooperation in other areas of mutual interest. Finally, it can strengthen cooperation on freedom, security and justice. Armenia is a country that is particularly dear to us for its cultural ties, but above all for the suffering of its people. I would like to mention in this House, in addition to the importance of ratification that we will shortly be approving, also the genocide of the Armenians, too often hidden, forgotten and concealed. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u127	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, what we are about to ratify today stems from an agreement signed in Brussels on 24 November 2017 between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, with their Member States, and the Republic of Armenia. The legislative framework under ratification is based on the legal framework established by the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed in 1996 and in force since 1999. There is no doubt that the Caucasian Republic, after the signing of 1996 at the request of the European Union, has made significant progress on the issue of human rights, certainly prodromic to more systemic relations. The agreement that we are about to ratify, if on the one hand it concludes a path of economic, cultural, political and relations in general, on the other it brings to cooperation and trade all those countries that, together with Armenia, join the Eurasian Economic Union; in practice, Armenia can be the pioneer of a more global opening to the East. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars voted in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u128	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, as you know, one Group has already requested an interruption at 1 p.m.: there are a few minutes left, but we will be able to make another ratification if the explanations of vote are really confined to the bone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u129	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1136. The working rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u130	Mr President, I would prefer to hand over the text of the report so that it remains in the Minutes, and therefore I would ask the Presidency for its permission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u131	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u134	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, when I ask for permission to deposit the text of my speech, I am voting in favour of the Group to which I belong. In particular, I note that it is useful and appropriate to reach the ratification of this agreement, specifically because it is also expected to share relevant information on all issues relating to security, counter-terrorism and the fight against organised crime. These are all very important issues, for which an improvement in the already excellent relations between the European Union and Australia can make an important contribution to the fight against these serious forms of danger to our continent. I repeat the Group's vote in favour and the request to hand over the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u137	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for permission to hand over the written text of the speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Giacobbe (PD). However, I should like to make a comment on this agreement, especially with regard to the research sector and the facilitation of economic trade between Italy and Australia. In Australia, more than a million people of Italian origin live, including myself (we make up over 4 percent of the total population). Australia is the recipient of a large flow of goods and services made in Italy and many Italian companies have invested there in infrastructure projects and other economic activities. We need more cooperation between the two countries, because the potential is enormous and I am sure that it will produce important new collaborative research projects, the start of new activities, including in the form of partnership and joint ventures, and a facilitated way of accessing the markets in the Pacific and South East Asia, with which Australia has privileged relations. I believe that the bilateral relations, already excellent and consolidated, between Italy and Australia will be likely to further positive development following the adoption of the measure under consideration. As a representative in this House of that part of the world and of the Democratic Party, I therefore welcome the approval of this agreement and confirm my Group's strong support for it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u140	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be a quick one. This measure extends the scope of the 2008 agreement towards cooperation in areas such as countering terrorism, organised crime and corruption, but also in areas such as the protection of intellectual property rights and environmental protection, which, more than ten years ago, are at the forefront of policy agendas around the world. I believe that this agreement is particularly positive and therefore constitutes a further instrument of enhanced partnership between Italy, the European Union and Australia based on common values. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group President. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u143	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, I too will be very brief. The range of values and intents that we find in the draft law could easily represent a political manifesto, which I dare say enviable. The objective set by the subscribers addresses challenging issues of foreign policy and international security. Trade agreements are signed in general and in agriculture in particular, as well as in the field of health. The signing of the Agreement commits the Parties to forms of cooperation in strategic areas. Needless to say, this agreement helps the countries to which the Treaty is addressed to combat, through legal cooperation, forms of money laundering, terrorist financing and criminal organisations. For these reasons, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars I announce the vote in favour of the bill n. 1136. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u144	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It seems to me that all the groups agree to continue the discussion of the three ratifications of international agreements still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u145	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1139. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u146	Mr President, I would ask you to read the report and give it the written text, so that it can be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u147	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u150	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in asking for the written text of my speech to be annexed to the Report of today's sitting, I note that this is an important ratification, because it provides for a strengthening of the development of cultural, scientific and technological relations, with particular attention also to the granting of scholarships to students in the two countries, aimed at strengthening the study of their respective languages and therefore also to promote the spread of Italian language and culture, in a country that sees so many of its citizens interested in moving to Italy, also on business issues. Since it is a more than timely ratification, also because it dates back to the agreements even in 2007, I therefore declare the Italian Group Viva-PSI's vote in favour. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u151	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u154	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, our examination of Sri Lanka is the third agreement on countries in my constituency. It provides for cooperation in the fields of culture, school and university education and language teaching, but also in the field of archaeological, scientific and technological matters. I am strongly convinced that culture contributes in a fundamental way to social coexistence and to the development of economic exchange between the two countries. Culture is the first step to promote contacts between people, establish relationships and better understand different beliefs and ways of life. This gives rise to trust between individuals, which is a fundamental element in establishing economic relations as well. In other words, investments in culture produce wealth and well-being and it is also for these reasons that I confirm the support of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u157	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I only speak to express the support of the Forza Italia Group and ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech, which contains all the noble reasons why we are voting in favour of it, so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u158	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u161	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, I will make a very brief explanation of vote, to remind you that the Agreement of ratification and enforcement between the Italian Government and the Socialist Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka is essentially concerned with certain areas of action, such as culture, education, science and technology. Its prerogative is the commitment of the two countries to respect for human rights. It is clear that the teaching of the Italian language to the Sinhalese represents a working opportunity for the latter, considering the massive presence of their community in Italy and the need for family reunification. It is in fact a large community, but also laborious. On the other hand, we can say that Sri Lanka for Italian archaeologists appears like Bengodi, since more and more Italian scholarship expeditions venture into the unexplored territories of that country. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars voted in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u162	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u163	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1137. The rapporteur, Senator Taverna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u164	Mr President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the written text of the report, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u165	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u168	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in asking for the text of my speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, I am voting in favour of my Group, Italy Viva-PSI, to the draft law on our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u171	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am announcing the PD Group's vote in favour of the draft law before us, including the broad consensus in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u174	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, and I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group's draft law for our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u177	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to be able to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, announcing the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group on the draft law on our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u178	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u179	The next item is the debate on draft law No 964. The working rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u180	, f.f. Mr President, in this case too, I would like to be able to hand over the text of the report, so that it can be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u181	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u184	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask for permission to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Garavini (IV-PSI). I would merely point out that the ratification of this charter is appropriate, because the legal status of our officials of Italian origin is uniform, particularly with regard to the financial and fiscal aspects, and at the same time the Roman seat of this international body, which is headed by the United Nations, is not at risk. I declare the Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u187	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we consider this necessary and important step in our country's strategy to be a cultural superpower and to have a role. We had to at least complete our duties towards an international institution linked to the themes of culture, such as this one. Our vote will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u190	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, by announcing the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group, I read the text of my speech and ask for permission to attach it to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u193	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, in my turn, by reading the text of my speech, I would ask for permission to attach it to today's report and I would like to vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u194	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I would like to point out that the draft law, as a whole, has been voted by a simultaneous vote in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u195	Mr President, I would have liked to have voted in favour, but the button at my station did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u196	The Presidency takes note of this. At this point, I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. when it continues without a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u199	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since we have exhausted the items on the agenda, may I ask why you will resume the sitting at 3.30 p.m.? Otherwise, it could end now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u200	No, Senator Calderoli: there are several speeches on topics not on the agenda. I have undertaken to suspend the sitting now and I cannot keep it open for ten speeches to be held at 3.30 p.m.: I believe that your curiosity has been answered. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.14 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u203	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since we are at the end of the sitting, I would like to refer to Rule 55 and, in particular, paragraph 7, to the fact that today there was the UN General Assembly in New York. At the same time, President Conte had the opportunity to declare that the alarm on the Mont Blanc glacier must shake us: We agree on the need for global action to respond to the challenge of climate change (...). It is these hours the news that a glacier on the Mont Blanc side is likely to collapse. It is an alarm that cannot leave us indifferent. He must shake us all and mobilize us (...). We will continue to follow and encourage the mobilization of young people. Again today, the President then stated that the Paris Agreement is an essential starting point and that we must be aware of the moral and political duty to deliver to our children a planet in the best possible conditions, and then focus on combating climate change. At this point, I believe that we find ourselves in the conditions laid down in paragraph 7 of Article 55. Therefore, in the face of urgent and urgent questions, because they are communications of these hours, I would ask you to schedule motion 1-00135 of 4 June 2019, announced at session 117, which obviously deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u204	Senator Calderoli, I respond immediately, obviously appreciating also the acumen and his known ability in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to thank you for letting us know how much you were learning from this morning's newspapers, and so there was the whole sitting this morning to make this kind of request. You also mentioned a motion dated 4 June, and I therefore do not think that there is any need for urgency. Moreover, the interpretation of the urgency of an intervention in such a prestigious forum of an international nature is legitimate and appreciable, but it certainly cannot fall within the scope of the article you referred to. Therefore, since a Conference of the Leaders has also been held, in which you have been able to participate (as those who are presiding at the moment), where timetables have been planned and, moreover, a session to be devoted to motions has also been mentioned, I believe that this timetable can be requested and fixed at the next Conference of the Leaders, which we know is already scheduled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u206	If there are any further arguments, I can of course speak. Otherwise, if it is to reply, I do not believe that this is allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u207	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I do not intend to reply to the questions you have raised. I'd agree with her if they were the facts. But just a few hours ago, the President of the Council announced the Government's intention to include environmental and biodiversity protection and sustainable development as one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). It was on the show! Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). The launch of the agency that communicates this information is of September 25, at 10.09. This could therefore not have been requested either yesterday or this morning, since we were not yet aware of it. I therefore believe that the new situation at 10:09 a.m. represents a situation which has arisen and, for what are the consequences of it, is also a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u208	Thank you, Senator Calderoli. We all obviously follow, whenever a government is formed, regardless of where we are located, the government programs. So you too, who are so attentive, should know and know that the term sustainable development is mentioned several times in a well-known program and that you have engaged all of us throughout the summer. However, I would like to thank you and continue with the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u211	But if you speak on the same subject, Senator Romeo, I do not give you the floor. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am not speaking on this subject, but simply on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I call for a conference of group leaders to be convened in order to carefully assess this interpretation which you wrongly gave. [[Comments from the PD Group]] That is your position, which does not reflect the Rules of Procedure at all. Therefore, the Conference of the Heads of Group and, if necessary, the Council for the Rules of Procedure should be convened - because that is what we want to ask the President to do. COLLINA (PD). This is hard opposition! [[Comments of Senator Romeo]] TARICCO (PD). Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u212	Senator Romeo, your interpretation is legitimate, but I sincerely believe you're disproportionate. So the work goes on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u215	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I welcome Mr Calderoli's invitation. [[The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group occupy the benches of the Government. Ironic applause from Senator Errani]] Mr. President, what do I do? Shall I continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, don't make me suspend the session. Please leave the government desks. [[Comments from the PD Group]] TARICCO (PD). Of course it takes imagination to get the session suspended on something like this! MALLEGNI (FI-BP). I would like to talk about the problems of Italian companies, but it seems that the League is not interested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please leave the government benches. MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to talk about a tragic event that is hitting thousands of Italian companies and I believe that colleagues in the League, at least once, were interested in this subject... Ma'am, don't worry about it. It's just a show. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. How do you pretend you're nothing?MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Please, colleagues of the League, listen. I understand that sometimes I don't say such interesting things, but I have a feeling that this will interest you. There are over 4,000 hotels at this time on our national territory that are suffering a damage ranging from 400 to 600 million euros, because the largest international tour operator, Thomas Cook (and not only the English headquarters, but also the German, French and Belgian headquarters) has failed in the last twenty-four hours. The associations of category, Federalberghi, Confindustria hotels and all those who gravitate around the issue related to the accommodation facilities have denounced that what happened affects not only the hotels, but all the induced linked to the hotels, suppliers and employees, with consequent implications on the individual territories in a summer season already so complicated that it has recorded the sign less. Many of these will be forced not to honor the payment of salaries, taxes, etc. I kindly invite the Presidency and also the Government, in the figure of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to take on an issue that concerns tens of thousands of entrepreneurs and businesses, which in the next sixty to ninety days will risk not being able to honour the commitments made both in financial terms and in relations with their employees. This is a financial tragedy that has hit and is hitting the whole of Europe and Italy is no less. (Senator Crucioli turns the camera of his cell phone to the Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group sitting at the government desks). ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It can't be recovered!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u216	President Romeo, please. In the meantime, I would urge my fellow Members not to take any form of reprieve in this House. Assistants are taking action. Second question: considering that sitting at the government benches, when not even the government is present, is a new form of protest, do not force me to call you nominally and to have the names of those who occupied the government benches recorded. I ask colleagues to leave the government benches. [[Comments of Senator Bossi Simone]] Senator Simone Bossi would like to speak to the Presidency, if you feel so. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). They occupied the government benches for three hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not the point. Senator Romeo, Senator Saponara, Senator Bossi: I invite you to leave the benches of the Government immediately. President Romeo, I would not want to distract you from your telephone communication, but I would urge you to leave the government desks immediately. TAVERNA (M5S). This is nostalgia! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 15.45 p.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.) The session is resumed. Please, if you take your seats, I'd like to make some communications. (The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group [[abandoning the benches of the Government]] First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with the interpretation given by Vice-President Rossomando in relation to Article 55 (7); therefore, in my opinion, today we cannot include in the calendar any arguments not included in the programme because, as Senator Rossomando has rightly pointed out, there are no situations that have occurred or are urgent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u219	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will not go into the substance of Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the reading that was given by the Vice President and now by you. However, pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to see a vote by the House on its interpretation, that is, on the applicability of the Rule of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u220	In accordance with Rule 92 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, one speaker against and one in favour for no more than five minutes may normally speak after the proposer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u223	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I find the reasons given by Senator Calderoli convincing, so I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u226	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am against what my colleague has requested. MIRABELLI (PD). This is the Senate of the Republic! This is serious!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u227	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, I can regulate the work of this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). What's going on then? TARICCO (PD). It's a session-end surgery! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I read Senator Calderoli's article correctly and asked who wanted to speak for or against. It says: "Estimated the importance" The article continues and it is perhaps better for everyone to read the Rules of Procedure better, so no one protests: "The President, however, has the right to give the floor to one speaker for each parliamentary group."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u230	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I think that the key to resolving this issue is precisely in the speech made earlier by President Calderoli, who did not want to go into the substance of the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which they mentioned in order to proceed, as was intended, to the vote. On the subject, the article specifies that the request cannot be accepted at the end of the Rules of Procedure. President Rossomando's interpretation is therefore correct, because the two requirements of novelty and urgency do not apply at all. It is good for this House to find, also on how to conduct obstructionism such as this, a bit 'to the venture, a common vision; otherwise we risk creating precedents that are not good for anyone. I therefore believe that we can safely close it here, trying to recognise the proper scope for the substance of the article that has been referred to. Therefore, Mr President, we are opposed to this because the Rules of Procedure are clear and the proposal cannot be accepted. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u233	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I agree with what has just been said. I would stress that we risk creating a precedent that would force us to retrace the theater we have witnessed. Mr President, I understand Rule 92... [[Comments of Senator Bishops.]] You're right, we did it with the Constitution in hand, thinking about some things. We didn't explain... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u234	Senator Mirabelli, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u235	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the question is that something totally free is being done here. We are asking for a vote on a motion, on the grounds of urgency and the need for an answer on the clear points made by the President-in-Office of the Council here, not later than 15 days ago, on the occasion of trust in the Government. There is nothing new in the things that have been called back. If we begin to accept the idea that it is enough to invent an escamotage and occupy the benches of the Government to block for one or two hours the activity of the Assembly, thus creating a precedent, we are harming this House and the credibility of the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u238	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, this whole issue is absolutely unfounded. As for the substance, Mr Mirabelli has made a good point. The President-in-Office of the Council repeated to the UN exactly the same considerations about the urgency of taking action on climate change through energy conversion in the course of the policy statements. It is obvious that it is absolutely pretentious, unless the League, after we have come to explain that we had to resume drilling and incinerators, has a way, all its own, special and particular, to combat climate change. The point, Mr President, is clearly pretentious. Since I have some experience of opposition and I have done so for a long time, it is not that every time we have collected signatures to place on the agenda a motion or an absolutely urgent matter, which for a period we have done with a certain frequency, every time, through a point of order, a debate has opened to interpret whether it is right or not to apply paragraph 7 of Rule 55. That, Mr President, means that from now on there will be absolutely obstructive use of the Rules of Procedure, and that is all. We cannot make a point of order every time, and then give the floor to one representative per Group, on an issue that is clearly unfounded, having voted on the calendar this morning, among other things: the glacier was about to collapse last night and it is not that something new has happened this morning or this afternoon. I would remind you, Mr President, that, if we do so now and allow a point of order under Rule 92 on quite pretentious matters, such as the application of Rule 55 (7), we are frankly in danger of doing that in this House. This, in my view, is a very dangerous precedent. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u239	I put it to the vote by show of hands... [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] TARICCO (PD). That's crazy! Mr Laus (PD). Are you kidding me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't understand. Senator Marcucci, can you come over for a second? Mr Laus (PD). They made the Rules of Procedure! TARICCO (PD). We totally get it! [[Protests from PD and M5S groups.]] This is crazy! [[Senator Taverna's protests.]] Mr Laus (PD). No vote! TARICCO (PD). If we vote, we leave the Chamber. TAVERNA (M5S). From now on, do they occupy and we vote? MIRABELLI (PD). Is it a conquest of opposition not to make the speeches at the end of the session? TAVERNA (M5S). Are you kidding me? MIRABELLI (PD). Do they take care of the House so that they do not make the speeches at the end of the sitting? Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Did you make the group leader without us? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For what, Senator Calderoli? We are voting and we cannot speak when we vote. [[Vivacious protests from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] TAVERNA (M5S). What are we voting for? PUGLIA (M5S). President, let us not create a precedent! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're voting for show of hands. I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u240	Since we are about to proceed to a vote by show of hands, we are asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u241	All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u242	[[Vivacious protests from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] TAVERNA (M5S). But all right, what? Mr Ferrari (PD). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u243	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Mr Ferrari (PD). President, I have asked to speak on the order of business! [[Lively protests from the PD Group. Senator Errani suggests he wants to intervene]] I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. [[The quorum is then checked. Reiterated and prolonged protests from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] That's not possible! Stop it, please. I don't understand anything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] TARICCO (PD). Shame on you! PUGLIA (M5S). Buffoons! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Screaming and lively protests from M5S and PD Groups]] I asked if you would like to vote to see whether or not there is a quorum. VOICES FROM M5S, PD and IV-PSI. No! TARICCO (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do not allow yourself, because the institutions are never offended, whatever the position is! You're rude! Sit down! [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] TARICCO (PD). President, I'm not rude. If you give me the floor, I'll explain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're rude, you understand? You can express what you want with politeness! Sit down! I'll call you back! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] TARICCO (PD). Do you call me back to order when they took over the government benches? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop! You offended me! He's rude, you understand? Respect institutions as I respect you! You may agree or not, but you express it with politeness and respect, as I have respected everyone! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mutual respect! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I just called her back for respect... [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is nothing to applaud in the face of the situation in this House, which is unsustainable, of an ill-education that cannot be tolerated. Okay? Mr Marcucci (PD). You agree! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't let you insinuate anything, you understand? I won't let you and anyone else insinuate anything! TARICCO (PD). You agree! Mr Marcucci (PD). Again! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, have you seen the senator's gesture? I don't connect with anyone but myself, you understand? And I have nothing to be ashamed of! FARAONE (IV-PSI). However, Mr President, you cannot follow this madness! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on you to respect, which is the first condition for this House, the opinions of all. Okay? SANTANGELO (M5S). [[He stands up and shows the Rules of the Senate]] Mr President, this must be respected! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll cancel the previous quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u245	You have the right to do so. I beg you to sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u246	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Errani, I've already told you you have your say. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Excuse me, ma'am, I didn't understand. I've always been more than respectful. My question is: what should we vote on, since the interpretation given, as is evident - because this is a cinema - is totally destitute of any foundation? [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator De Falco.]] What should we vote on? I don't understand. Unless you, Mr President, give an interpretation of Rule 55 (7) first... Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are voting! STEFANO (PD). He's back at the theater! Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Senator Calderoli, don't worry. [[Comments from M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and PD Groups]] Calm down, because we're playing the game of these gentlemen. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Their goal is that we are here. But let's stay calm and quiet. Your request is, in my opinion, Mr President - and this is, with all due respect, in your hands - totally unjustified and unmotivated, under the Rules of Procedure. So we don't have to vote for anything. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] You did gymnastics, we're quiet, no problem. It will happen again, but there is no problem, because the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is very clear. But that's up to you, President. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). After this vote there will be another vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u247	Senator Errani, before, as soon as I arrived in the Chamber, I made a necessary premise: I totally agreed with the decision - I said it very, very clearly - of Senator Rossomando. I said it clearly, and it's in the record, and so who hasn't heard it now... [[Senator Laus' comments.]] If I could finish, maybe it'd be better. I said that, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, there was no reason to include in the timetable a subject which had neither the characteristics of urgency nor the characteristics of an event that occurred, just as Senator Rossomando correctly pointed out. I said that in anticipation of the reopening of this sitting. So, I thought my position was very clear. At this point, to remind myself and the many who were not in this House at the time of the debate, Senator Calderoli stood up and asked, pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to be able to make a reference and to speak on the question laid down in Rule 55 (7), pursuant to a sort of combined interpretation between Rule 92 on the points of order... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Callbacks can normally be taken. This is a point of order on an article whose interpretation... [[Senator Laus' comments.]] I'm finishing my speech. I've seen everyone who asked to intervene, but I'm finishing my reasoning. Then, under Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, one speaker may speak in favour and one against. Having seen that there had been a stir in the face of alleged speculation - and I do not want to return to it - I have given the opportunity to speak, again on this subject, to one speaker for each parliamentary group. Then, as a point of order is made, there is the possibility of voting on this - as the Rules say - and so I put it to the vote by show of hands. Floridia (M5S). But about what? [[Protests from the PD Group.]] That is what Rule 92 says, which I would ask everyone to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u250	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it is absolutely necessary to contextualize the time of the debate in this House. Rule 92 - specifically, I invite you to read paragraph 1 in its entirety - refers to the normal work of the Assembly, not to the speeches that take place at the end of the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups]] President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Rule 92 refers to the interruption of a debate, to the interruption of work at the time of the debate. In this case we are not interrupting a debate, but we are at the end of the sitting, after the work has already been completed. It is also unusual, Mr President, for the procedure applied today, namely that the sitting was suspended and resumed only for the purpose of the end of the sitting. And Senator Calderoli knows very well, who has always postponed the late-session speeches to another session. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups]] In order to try to give you a more correct interpretation, I would ask you, Mr President - and it is in a position to do so - not to have this vote taken because it would create a very serious precedent. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We've already done it. SANTANGELO (M5S). Please listen to me, colleagues - some of you are new in this parliamentary term - because, from the point of view of knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, I can probably say something about it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, I did the same by listening to Senator Calderoli in the last legislature. I repeat that Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure does not refer specifically to this time of the sitting. I do not know if there are any such precedents - and here I am also addressing the offices - after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, i.e. voting after the speeches at the end of the sitting. This is absolutely the first case and, therefore, I would ask you, Mr President, being in a position to do so, to return wisely to the decision of the vote. And I would ask you, since there is no subject to vote on either, to avoid the vote itself. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u253	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the subject is - alas - more complex. As I have often said in previous speeches, the point is the dignity of Parliament. Mr President, you cannot allow a single senator, especially if Vice-President of the Senate, to mock and humiliate the Presidency, the House and our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups]] STEFANO (PD). It's outrageous! Mr Marcucci (PD). The fact is that he did so by ridiculing - this is the objective consequence - also the correct and careful work of the Vice President who represented it. You, Mr President, are creating precedents for those who do not want to allow this House to work. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I don't know if he's doing it conscientiously or not. If any of our senators offended you, I apologize on behalf of all of them. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] But be careful, Mr President: you are giving yourself - probably unintentionally - a dangerous game for the institutions and for democracy. Keep that in mind. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u254	I do not allow you to say what you have just said, as I said in the preamble that I totally endorsed Senator Rossomando's position. Mr Marcucci (PD). It wasn't a consequence! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I arrived with a suspended Chamber. Mr Marcucci (PD). Then that's it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not allow this to happen, because it is your free interpretation, offensive to me. Mr Marcucci (PD). I can express my views. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't interrupt her when she was talking. I have waited respectfully for you to express your opinion and I am replying that Senator Rossomando's work has been totally shared by me. COLLINA (PD). If you put it to a vote, you deny it. That's the point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have a habit of listening silently. Screaming doesn't give substance to a concept.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u257	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, you first resented certain attitudes that you felt were not respectful of your person. I believe that we must all respect not so much the natural person who, from time to time, sits in that chair, but the function that you and your fellow Vice-Presidents represent. First of all, respect for the institutions is this, respect for the function you represent. Before he presided over Vice-President Rossomando and before you arrived in the Chamber, when the work of the Assembly was suspended today, he presided over Senator La Russa, who, responding to Senator Calderoli, specifically said that there was nothing to vote on this afternoon because only the speeches at the end of the sitting would take place, which remained in the queue and that, for an informal agreement between the groups, they did not go to add space to the work of the Chamber that was in progress. They were inserted after the suspension and the vice president La Russa has specified expressly - the invitation to verify on the Report, that it is already certainly ready, the words of the vice president La Russa - responding to Senator Calderoli that nothing would be voted. You, when you entered the Chamber, specifically said that you agree with the interpretation of Vice-President Rossomando. If we go to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, you wanted to understand that there was a problem; you gave the floor to two senators who gave their interpretation of the facts, but paragraph 3 says: "where the Senate is called by the President to decide on these calls." President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would ask you to reflect on the fact that, if you return to the House to every disquisition of the Rules of Procedure, it will degrade your function. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S, PD and Mixed]] We trust that the Presidency will have the conditions to be able to manage the House better and, then, do so. Don't give up on us, almost as if you didn't want to take on this responsibility. I would urge you to take full responsibility for the Presidency. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S, PD and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u258	Senator Calderoli, said Senator Begin that today - I was not in the Chamber because I had institutional commitments outside - there was an agreement that there would be no votes this afternoon. This was an agreement between all the groups. TAVERNA (M5S). There's the shorthand report! Beginnings (IV-PSI). It takes intellectual honesty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I read from the shorthand report that Vice-President La Russa, who was replacing me in the Chamber, said: At this point, I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. when it will continue without a vote. I wasn't in the Chamber and I didn't see that. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] I'm sorry, since I didn't preside over the work, I wasn't aware of the situation, which Senator Beginini reminded me of now. It seems to me that I understood that there had been a sort of gentlemen's agreement in this House, so much so that Senator Calderoli - according to the shorthand report given to me - had asked why the sitting would be resumed at 3.30 p.m., and he was told that ten speeches were planned at the end of the sitting, which would take place at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u261	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us at least be clear. The only gentlemen's agreement we found in here was to finish the ratification measures and resume the session at 3.30 p.m. No agreement that no votes would be held after that. So don't make fun of us. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] VOICES FROM M5S AND PD CATEGORIES. No! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I'll get it. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, can I finish? The fact that there would be no votes was said by the Vice President who was chairing this House at that time, but we did not make any political agreement with you that there would be no votes after that. TAVERNA (M5S). What are you talking about? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry. I spoke directly on the phone with Senator Alan Ferrari, to whom I confirmed, after speaking to the offices, that it was possible to finish the ratifications before the suspension, which is what was done. But agreements that there would be no votes afterward have never been signed with anyone. I'm sorry. [[Comments from the PD Group]] MANCA (PD). It's written in the Report!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u262	Senator Romeo, the shorthand report is worth, and I don't say my word, but the shorthand report. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] which was brought to me after the intervention of Senator Beginini, where it is written (as Vice President La Russa said): I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. when it will continue without a vote. Then Senator Calderoli asked to speak. There has been no dispute in this House about this, and I must therefore understand that, since there has been no dispute on the part of anyone, there has been an agreement between all the groups. In fact, it was ten speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u265	[[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry, I listened to ten speeches from your groups when only one was supposed to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, I've already read. Now let's get on with it. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr. President. In the meantime, it appears that you voted and there was no quorum. So if we go and see, that's the real result. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, if you took the vote and said so, I'm requesting registration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u266	Given this novelty unknown to me, because unfortunately this morning I was not present, and I put this call, let's proceed with the speeches at the end of the session. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u269	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the first sitting to remember in this House the anniversary of the hundred years since the birth of Fausto Coppi, the champion: a great athlete who has marked the history of cycling and sport in an indelible way and who remains an icon to watch to learn a lot about what it means to be determined, to innovate and to make his vocation a reason for life through which to be the best. Fausto Coppi was born a century ago, on 15 September 1919, in Castellania. He was a Piedmontese, an Alexandrian, therefore a border man and perhaps, precisely for this reason, he was able to go beyond his limits to leave a mark in history. In his career, starting by grinding kilometers by bicycle between the house of Castellania and the salumery of Novi Ligure in which he was a boy, Coppi won a lot, starting from his first Giro d'Italia, that of 1940, that he won at not even twenty-one years, despite having started as a gregarious. Then came the war: Coppi was enlisted in infantry and had to say goodbye to the bicycle until the end of the conflict, when he returned to the saddle to win the Milan-Sanremo in 1946. In 1949, at the age of thirty, he won the Giro d'Italia and shortly after the Tour de France. Coppi was the first to win the two races in the same year, and then to win again in 1952. In 1953 he won another Tour and a World Road Championship. Coppi's heart and lungs were different from the average ones, but the difference in his career was also the ability to innovate. Coppi, in fact, experimented, went beyond the limits, inventing a new way of training and feeding. He worked on the improvement of the position by bike, its setting and the choices of materials and equipment. He also made, among the first, a careful and effective use of collaborators and gregarians. He was, in short, a great champion, a great innovator and also a great leader; a great sportsman with a life as a novel, who took shape also thanks to fellow adventurers like Biagio Cavanna - he was also coach of Costante Girardengo - and opponents, but never enemies, like Gino Bartali. A hundred years after its birth today it remains undeniable that Coppi has been a great sportsman and a great man who, without fear of the new, has been able to face innovation with the courage of the great solitary escapes and the genuineness and transparency that reminds us of that photo of the passage of the bottle that has seen him protagonist, together with the opponent/friend Gino Bartali, of a moment of great sport and great humanity from which we can still take inspiration today. Perhaps this is the further element of greatness of Fausto Coppi, which as the classics of literature can speak at all times. To reread his life today we can learn the value of determination and innovation until we can push ourselves without fear in considering Coppi also as an added value for his land that, thanks to his memory, is discovering or rediscovering a vocation to beauty, sport, tourism and the environment that we can only hope finds more and more strength and can be of inspiration for other territories and for all our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u272	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise quickly to ask the Ministry of the Interior to reply to Question 3-01046, which was published on 18 July 2019. I believe there is an urgent need for an answer and an intervention from the Ministry of the Interior. We are talking about the National Fund for the victims of the mob, which allows the victims of the mob, but also those who form a civilian, to have lawyers who have the security and the certainty of being paid at the end of the proceedings directly from this fund established by the Ministry of Justice. Recently, on 18 January 2019, the Address Committee issued a circular which in fact blocked, even retroactively, the funds for the payment of lawyers who assist both the Municipalities and the anti-racket associations that form a civil party. It is clear that the rule is either restored, i.e. the possibility of drawing on the Fund in order to pay lawyers the certain payment by the State, or we risk that both anti-racket associations and most small municipalities cannot form a civil part, weakening the presence of the State and civil society in mafia trials. I would ask the Minister for the Interior to speak on this point and to respond to a request which I believe is urgent. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u273	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u275	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember in this House the tragedy of San Giuliano di Puglia, where, on 31 October 2002, 27 children died under the rubble of the school collapsed because it was not normal because of an earthquake shock. There was then a general commitment of administrators and parliamentarians to eliminate the shame of open schools although they lacked the necessary requirements for seismic safety. Well, it's been 17 years, but that shame hasn't been wiped out. That is why, in recent days, I have addressed the President-in-Office of the Council with an appeal which I hope I will renew here on your behalf. To President Conte, who is the holder of the delegation for the earthquake, I asked to close all schools at risk, also because it is necessary not only for a normal criterion of political and moral responsibility, but also because the closure I invoke has now become a precise legal obligation on the basis of a pronunciation of the Cassazione of 2018, which has established that they should not be intended for the use of schools not perfectly in line with the anti-seismic regulations. I confess that I cannot resign myself to the indifference of all responsible bodies, especially since we are not talking about isolated cases. According to the data of 4 June 2018, out of the 39.847 school buildings recorded, 43 percent are in seismic zones 1 and 2, that is those subject to strong or strong earthquakes, and of these only 21 percent are designed in an appropriate manner to the technical standards of earthquake-proof construction. In Abruzzo, the seismic zone par excellence - think President, and I would like to have your kind and august attention because, while we lose ourselves in discussions on the Rules of Procedure, citizens follow us and want the resolution of problems and I try to put some of them - 80% of schools of every order and grade are without the necessary security requirements. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of young people all over the country, our children, brothers or grandchildren, who risk their lives every day like the children of San Giuliano di Puglia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let us close these schools before other tragedies happen again. Let us begin the construction of temporary structures - again to President Conte - in the most serious and final cases in the long term. It's gonna take a lot of money, money we don't have. It will, Mr President, certainly take Europe's help to find the estimated 100 billion for the safety of all public buildings. I also say this to my colleagues in the League, who are blocking the Presidency's work. I am talking about an earthquake and I realize that they are more interested in the rules of the Rules of Procedure, with which they wanted and want to turn this House into a Vietnam. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I remind them that they are transforming their presence rather into a Caporetto, because they are blocking the work of Parliament and the prerogatives of Members. And this is a serious fact, which I am sure the citizens will be able to judge. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I address the illustrious Chairmen, starting with Professor Bagnai, since I speak - yes - of schools that affect the entire population, but the lack of security also concerns universities, which he should represent here. Therefore, I hope that he will pass this revolutionary heat rather as a joke, not even up to the tradition of the League, which we remember and which here brought President Bagnai, who will now ask, rightly, for reply for personal reasons that do not interest us. [[Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). But how don't you care? Fascist! DI NICOLA (M5S). I urge Senator Bagnai to join the call to close schools at risk, because what is certain is that we can no longer continue, we can no longer be silent, we can no longer fail to have the attention of the presidency of the Senate. Let us unite, therefore, Mr President, so that the lives of so many young people are no longer put at risk by that same state which should, instead, protect them. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u278	GIANNUZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are all horrified this summer in the face of the chronicle that brought back the dog horribly raped in Partinico, which was then necessary to practice euthanasia in order to put an end to his agony. In general, to hear the chronicle of the free cruelty against animals and even more the bulletin of the sad phenomenon of summer abandons, unmistakably increasing, year after year (more than 65,000 abandons are now spoken of in the ninety days of summer) tends to create in us, day after day, the perception of a country that is gradually eliminating that peculiar characteristic of its that made us appeal, outside our territory, as good people and that, inside, the country represented for ourselves element of comfort, because it offered us the subtle certainty of having around a human tissue that, if necessary, in every fragility would have been able to welcome us. Whether we are aware of this or not, when we are dealing with these issues, it is a talk not only about animals, but about the quality of our collective consciousness, our culture of coexistence and that heritage of shared images that connects our social estate. Today the picture of a social fabric, mostly disturbing, is postponed to us, in which the idea of the possible comfort in the other seems gradually to be lost, replaced by the idea of the other's fear. Why, in fact, should we trust him or those whom we now assume capable of hellishness, cruelty and destruction? We obviously need to place ourselves strongly, precisely in these classrooms, the problem of our approach to fragility, through above all a new juridical culture that testifies to the convinced will of the ruling class of this country to the reconstitution of our social fabric and that can thus serve as a convincing example and reference in the country. We therefore hope that the new political cycle that has just begun will be able to be the author of many initiatives that go in the direction of the recognition of this as an emergency that lies at the basis of many other emergencies. In this regard, we hope in particular that it will resume as soon as possible the action presented by Senator Perilli, the so-called animal protection bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which for the first time transforms animals into legal entities and then consistently tightens the penalties for all cruel acts perpetrated on them. We hope it can be scheduled in the Commissions as soon as possible and then find the broadest consensus in the Assembly to witness to the country the firm political will to put outlaw the horror. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u281	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to the incident involving the Santissima Annunziata Hospital in Naples, where I work, which has represented for decades an important reference point for child care, not only in the historic centre of Naples, but throughout the metropolitan area. Its slow agony, with the progressive abolition of the services and services provided, is once again the striking expression of the programmatic blindness, incompetence and total disinterest of regional administrators and politicians in the requests for assistance and health demands of citizens and children in particular. This condition has repercussions on the quality and timeliness of the response to the health needs of the entire metropolitan area of Naples, in particular the less well-off sections. Despite all this are the data that speak of a hospital structure still active, which recorded, for 2018, 1,300 admissions in the division of pediatrics and about 26,000 accesses for the clinic of the continuity of the pediatric care; a sort of first aid masked. For 2019 the data are on the increase. It is necessary that another pediatric structure supports and integrates the high skills and specialties present in the other pediatric pole of the city of Naples, the Hospital Santobono, allowing to overcome the daily emergency that becomes critical during the winter period, often avoiding transfers of the little ones in nosocomi out of Province due to the lack of beds. Professional safety for health professionals must be an essential obligation, including to protect citizens. This condition cannot be without the immediate start of the following services: continuous anesthesiological medical guard H24, continuous radiology service H24, restoration of logistic services and structural maintenance, adaptation of the organic plant. These interventions are essential in order to guarantee at least an efficient quality service to the health and care demands of small patients. If we cannot or do not want to do this, we have the courage to close the hospital, but take responsibility for it before citizens, saying it publicly, with all the consequences, in my opinion, which this act entails. We do not need programmes or catwalks; we need immediate and concrete action. Children deserve better and more; take action before it is too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u284	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, all of us, who have followed with some interest the issue of the draft law on euthanasia, are waiting for the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has not actually been issued so far, probably also because of the complexity that this entails within the Court itself. I say this because I know for a fact that, among the many provisions in the Senate and that we would really like to start discussing as soon as possible, there are draft laws that stand out on very different positions between them. The last, the one presented this morning, also provides for the administration of the lethal substance; we are therefore faced with an active approach to euthanasia and to the whole field. A few minutes ago we really experienced a situation at least confused and a bit messy about the state of the Senate's work, while I was at the same time engaged in a radio interview with the mother of two children sick of ALS, quite serious, who wondered about the politics that struggled to assume his responsibilities. I would like to ask my colleagues and also you, Mr President, to schedule these draft laws as soon as possible, because the purpose which commits us all as a strong, high purpose of responsibility for life and death issues affecting so many people also restores a dimension of politics that knows how to deal with difficult things (because it will not be easy at all) with courage and clarity, having in mind not the formalism of a debate that somehow winds up in the cavities of the Rules of Procedure; which is also important because, as we all know, in democracy the forms are part of the substance. There is, however, a more important substance that involves us all and I really hope that now, when work has just resumed, we can really give clear, concrete and certain answers to the people who are waiting for them out of here and that we do not deceive ourselves that by playing a little 'with the small artifices of our formal positionings the country is reconciled with politics and with good politics. I am also saying this by thinking that it will not be an easy debate, an easy battle, or that the consequences will be sure. However, I believe that we will give the idea of a serious Senate, careful that it does not stand up with matters of pure form. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u287	NATURAL (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we very often use the speeches at the end of the sitting to bring to the attention of this House ugly facts, bad news and problems afflicting the country. Unfortunately, those are never lacking, but today I want to talk to you about a commendable initiative that traces the way forward to solve the problems related to the exploitation of work, environmental sustainability, the genuineness of food products, the income of producers, the removal of labour from the clutches of the malavitous organizations. On some land in the province of Foggia, 40 people of color worked on the harvesting of tomatoes following the rules on safety, pay and working hours, housed in housing modules of Casa Sankara, the guesthouse located between San Severo and Foggia financed by the Puglia Region, and transported to the workplace by shuttles. The initiative is the result of the combined action between the international association NoCap, by the quality label "Iamme", by the network of supermarkets of the Megamark group, by the association "Rete per la terra." The Association NoCap carries out checks on farms that intend to be part of the network and on the entire supply chain of products that are decorated with their own ethical stamp, together with the certification body of the Department of Food Quality (DQA) accredited to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies Food, Forestry and Tourism and the Italian Accreditation Authority (Accredia), to ensure that all the provisions and norms in the matter of work and safety are respected and applied according to national and international obligations. It is a project that involves several companies and a few hundred workers: boys, women and men who are taken away from the blackmails of the organized underworld and of the corporals and who work honestly in Puglia, Basilicata and Sicily. All this, as I said, is carried out with regular work contracts, movements on appropriate means of transport, medical visits, occupational safety devices and chemical baths in the fields. Law No. 199 of 2016 against the exploitation of workers provides not only the repressive phase towards the authors of irregular work, but also the support of workers for the identification of suitable forms of collaboration with the territorial sections of the quality agricultural work network. In Puglia we finally manage to move in this direction; a collaboration between public and private subjects that still struggles to spread, but represents the right direction for all those benefits listed above. All this without forgetting the fundamental role that the final consumer takes on in this virtuous circuit, where he is the master. As often recalled, shopping is the political gesture par excellence; making it consciously will save us from the magma constituted by environmental insustainability mixed with the exploitation of workers. Civilization and responsibility must be conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, at work, the foundation of our Republic, we also build the citizenship of those who start a new life in Italy. Work is a lever of integration that is not limited to socio-economic emancipation, but invests a more personal dimension, and for this reason totalizing, made of relationships, confrontation, sharing of difficulties and successes, a sense of belonging. From my region comes an important sign of hope. I dare say more: from Puglia comes a recipe, a possible solution to well-known problems that we representatives of the institutions are called to face with concrete facts and not with blatantly useless and repetitive electoral proclamations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u288	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u290	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Minister for Economic Development to my initiative as an inspection union - Act 4-02134 of 9 September - concerning the artificial exponential growth of system costs contained in electricity bills. In the face of all government and parliamentary concerns, we are witnessing an out-of-control increase in these costs that do not correspond to the actual users served. The bill, in fact, conveys the privilege of the companies and concessionaries that provide these basic services. It happens for light, electricity and gas. In this regard, I asked the Minister, because only in 2019 did we achieve a net increase of 13% (for gas, 10%). There are costs incurred by couples who, compared to the previous year, arrive, only with regard to the supply of electricity and gas, to 4,300 euros, while for families with a greater consistency this cost exceeds 5,000 euros. Within this framework there is also the Regulatory Authority for Energy Networks and the Environment (ARERA), which, on the basis of coordination elements, must carry out the measurability of Government and Parliament. We must ensure that the Minister pushes ARERA and that it does its duty to ensure that the service provider, because of easy profits, is not led to fall asleep in inefficiency and ineffectiveness. This question is of my interest, but it is not confined to the territory from which my democratic legitimacy arises, because the issue concerns Italy. I hope that the good, competent and personally appreciated Minister for Economic Development will put this issue on the agenda as a priority, because the life of families cannot be put in trouble and trouble by a dizzying, artificial and too comfortable increase that characterizes the contractual relationship between the manager and the target family. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u293	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, absent government, ladies and gentlemen, today we have examined two draft laws, both of which concern agricultural production. One of these deals with the issue of milk plants, for which the Government has proposed a solution, while the dispute over Sardinian sheep's milk does not yet find a solution. The problems faced a few months ago by Minister Centinario now pass to the new Minister Bellanova, whom we have not yet heard about. The government must find a solution as soon as possible to avoid those scenes and episodes of protest that we have witnessed, of which the pastors have been the protagonists, but also victims. Meanwhile, the new plan of regulation of the supply of Roman pecorino cheese has been rejected by many processing cooperatives and the price of cheese with denomination continues to stand at 6.5 euro per kilo (equal to 72-74 cents per litre of milk), regulated by a mechanism of Milanese auctions that ends up undermining the value of the product. The sheep's milk is already paid 20 cents more in France and Spain and it is therefore clear that speculation, the causes of which must be removed. Moreover, the political commitments had been different and different. The goal was to get over one euro per litre, still lower than the shepherds' request and certainly not profitable. So there should be a balance of 30-32 cents, as promised to the Sardinian shepherds. I would like to remind you that there has not even been the indication by the Agency for the disbursements in agriculture (AGEA) of the auction for the withdrawal from the market of surplus Roman pecorino, to be allocated to the food ration of the most deprived, for which 14 million euros had already been allocated. Meanwhile the producers express their concern for how the dispute is being handled on the new plan of the offer of the Roman pecorino of the Consortium for the protection of Roman pecorino PDO. From this situation comes the opposition to the contents so far emerged, considered absolutely insufficient by pastors and producers. Let us not forget that many of them, because of the previous protests, have been put to trial and therefore live today with anguish this situation. It may seem trivial, but I would like to remind you that pastoral care is one of the main resources for the economy and occupation of Sardinia, with 40,000 people in 15,000 farms, while Sardinian farms account for half of all national sheep. The objective difficulty and uncertainty of production must therefore provide compensation by the State, operating all the European levers, finding in the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and national agricultural policies an appropriate and concrete recognition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u296	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House a news report, which was released by the ANSA agency on Sunday afternoon, which I read the title of: Two-year-old son of vegans, hospitalized for malnutrition. In the hospital in Nuoro, it's serious. Well, this news, which has been re-launched by all possible and imaginable newspapers, websites, TV, radio, printing and printing, is completely false and, above all, tendentious. I repeat: I am referring to the news of the ANSA on the serious conditions, due to malnutrition, of a two-year-old child, a son of vegan parents, who was admitted to the hospital in Nuoro. I called immediately, Sunday afternoon, and they passed me the pediatrics department. To my question whether, first of all, the child - or the child, no matter - was in serious condition, the answer was that she was not in serious condition, otherwise she would have been in intensive care. So I contacted Dr. Grazia Catina, who is director of the ASSL of Nuoro. So, not only the doctors at the hospital, but also Dr. Grazia Catina reported asking ANSA for the denial of the news. I'll read you Dr. Grazia Catina's e-mail: We formally disassociate ourselves from what is reported on the state of health and conditions of the hypotheticals concerned as well as on the reconstruction of the facts and on the actions of our structure. The statement I have given does not correspond to what has actually been said. I'm asking for a correction. It is therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and I say this also for those who listen to us from home - a new and shameful example of false and unfair information, enslaved to the multinationals in the sector, probably enthusiasts of McDonald's and Burger King and terrified by the huge spread of good food practices promoted by vegan culture. [[Applause from Senator La Mura]] I would like to remind you that all other cases have also been personally denied by me. I remember the girl who was hospitalized at Gaslini Hospital in Genoa, called vegan, who instead ate Parmesan; as for the child of Belluno, whom I contacted, Dr. Tanzella, medical director of the health department, reported that the child was not vegan. As for the child who was admitted to the Fatebenefratelli hospital in Milan, Professor Luca Bernardo, primary, told me that the problems of this child have nothing to do with vegan nutrition, in fact, it is right that you all know it, in Milan Professor Bernardo opened a clinic for vegan mothers and vegan children from birth. I asked how many of these vegan children got sick and the answer was no one. I then asked if there were sick children in the Fatebenefratelli pediatrics department and the answer was that there are. However, how many of these vegan children get sick in pediatrics? The answer was no one. Then this is yet another fake new, we have officially denied it. I thank my colleagues. The best thing is that the ANSA, in response to Dr. Catina, who asked for a correction, deleted the news, which shows that the news was false. But the ANSA should have denied it because it is the largest Italian journalistic agency and is known all over the world. This is a serious fact, so all the newspapers that reported this false news should publish a correction. Go vegan. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u297	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u299	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in accordance with Rule 87 (1) of the Rules of Procedure because I saw, on Mr Di Nicola's call to my person, a censure of my behaviour because I was associated with the protests of my colleagues and with the points of order of my colleagues. I would like to point out that I am not doing this in any way for a spirit of beating, I am motivated to intervene in the esteem I have for Mr Di Nicola, who is absolutely commensurate with the interest he has in my response, which is demonstrated by the fact that he is not here at the moment. It would have been interesting if he had been here, he who mentioned my profession as a university teacher, just now that we had a colleague from his Group a clear indication of what is the profession of my colleague Di Nicola in Italy, that is that of journalist, propalators of false news. I want to say two things to justify, in front of my colleague Mr Di Nicola, my passion for the Rules of Procedure and also to enter into the substance of his speech. It is precisely because I come from an academic path that I am passionate about the method and am therefore passionate about the Rules of Procedure. The questions of method, the questions of the Rules of Procedure, are not idle because we should all remember that the Rules of Procedure and in general the rules exist to protect the weakest because the strongest protect themselves. This is the philosophy with which I am regulating myself, for example, within my Commission, so I am a little saddened that my colleague Mr Di Nicola, who has had the opportunity to appreciate the balance of my Commission, sees it as a negative fact that we are calling on the Rules of Procedure here and asking for their respect. I do not think that citizens are affected by this attitude. I believe that what hits citizens is the result of austerity policies that are then the cause of the facts that Senator Di Nicola rightly censors, for example the degradation of school buildings. Well, if we are against that kind of attitude, I would like to understand how we can be believed to oppose this attitude when we belong to a Movimento whose political leader wished, in 2013, for Germany to invade Italy, a metaphor that indicated that in Germany, the homeland of austerity policies, Movimento saw a valid ideological reference. That this was the case, we also saw it in July, when the Movimento voted for von der Leyen. So, we want to understand one thing: do you want schools to collapse or do you want schools not to collapse? Because if you want schools not to collapse, maybe you shouldn't go to Europe to vote for those who have condemned Italy to austerity rules that now proposes not to apply in their own home. That is the point and that is also, as is now quite clear and as everyone has said, the reason for the crisis. So I, in some way, associate myself with the words of the parent Molinari who expressed himself vehemently but all in all expressive, saying that you have brought degradation into Italian politics. Let us do a little opposition, too. On those benches you have gone many times too, now we go there and, in addition, we also have some arguments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u302	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I asked to speak on a personal basis because, while a few moments ago, the barren and clumsy occupation of the benches of the government by my colleagues in the League was taking place, I was approached by my colleague, Mr Commissioner, of the League, who intimidated me with the threatening and provocative handing over of his cell phone, erroneously believing that I was filming the gazzarre that they were staged in this institutional place. Well, Mr President, these intimidating attitudes with me do not attack. But I want to censor the fact that this is no longer repeated, and I also ask you to look at the film (because all this has happened here in the presence of colleagues), and to ensure that Senator Quaestor is censored and does not comment on these facts anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u305	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, apart from the fact that I think it is bizarre on the part of my colleague, Senator Crucioli, to ask for personal intervention on a matter which occurred during the suspension of the work of this House, I was invited by my colleague, Mr De Poli, to approach Senator Crucioli, who at that moment had the camera at the height of his face, probably to film what was happening in this Chamber, I repeat, to suspended works. I didn't ask Senator Crucioli to give me my cell phone. I just told him to turn it off if he was filming. He lowered his cell phone, after a few seconds he brought him back to the height of his face, almost filming with a footage of myself who was interloquent in the meantime. He himself said: "I have my cell phone in my hand because I'm trying to figure out a split of the glass on the display." I invited him to rotate the display to my side. He didn't. I went to his side and, on that occasion, Senator Crucioli addressed me with serious threats to me - I repeat - with the hypothesis of exercising force not in the Chamber but in the corridor. This is what happened during - I repeat - the suspension of the work of this House. I wanted to reiterate this: I did not want to intervene, but since Senator Crucioli intervened on his own behalf, I felt it appropriate to say what really happened, repeating the fact that I did not ask to have the delivery of his cell phone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u308	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am speaking for myself because I have been quoted, insulted, exploited, to which I will respond, inspired by my secretary Salvini, in an evangelical way; not with kisses, for heaven's sake, because it is not in my custom to send kisses, but with a quotation from the Gospel according to Luke. The Lord said, "Before the rooster sings, today you will deny me three times." And when he came out, he wept bitterly. Today I felt denied for the first time and I would not want to go to the second or third. I am crying for being denied, but above all I am crying because, after we had prevented ourselves, as we would have liked, from allowing the people to return to the vote and vote, today Parliament was prevented from voting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I may be the one climbing the Regulations, but no one had the courage to say why they did not vote. If there is a majority, a proposal is rejected. We did not vote and we did not reject it because on Wednesday afternoon the senators in the Senate were not there, and those senators took the salary today too, so they should have been there until 8 p.m. or until the end of the session. Did anyone prefer to take the trolley and go home at 1:15 p.m. on Wednesday? It's your problem. When we have to vote here we cannot hide behind the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure did. Either you're there and you're voting or -- I'm sorry for you -- you're cheating on the warrant your constituents gave you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u311	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because there has been a statement by Senator Bagnai that has particularly impressed me. Senator Bagnai intervened in response to a speech by Senator Di Nicola, who had in some way called him into question, but in his speech, referring to Di Nicola's profession, my colleague Bagnai spoke in general of the category of journalists as propagators of false news. Senator Bagnai is President of the Commission and is also a university professor. Well, I think we should be careful, especially in the Senate Chamber, in Parliament, never to make general statements of this kind. Personally, I would never say college professors who are all ignorant. Maybe there's some, but they're not all of them. I would never say that in any category, and I do not think that we should say that of the Italian free press either. There will certainly be some journalists spreading false news, but the phrase that journalists are propalators of false news - Senator Bagnai will excuse me - is really not worthy of him. [[Senator Bagnai suggests he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u312	Senator, maybe you shouldn't reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u313	Mr President, if you would allow me to clarify, I would be grateful, but perhaps that is not necessary. You take care of yourself. Since Senator Zanda censored my behavior, I would like to intervene personally.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u314	Please, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u315	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Zanda, who shows interest in the clarification I intend to make. I made a specific reference to the previous speaker, who showed, through his testimony, that there was a modus operandi of an important press agency that did not correct. I refer, to motivate my statement, to what I wrote in my blog, in an article entitled "How to get rich quickly and effortlessly," where document for tabulas a whole series of circumstances in which statements made by me were distorted or not made by me were attributed to me. Of course, the title has nothing to do with the content of the article I wrote, exactly as newspaper headlines almost never have anything to do with the content of the text. I'm sorry if I bumped into Senator Zanda's sensitivity; I promise to be more careful in the future, but, you see, it was not my intention to harm the dignity of my role or this place. Perhaps we should all be very careful in assessing the scale of the phenomenon of the propalation of false news which - as I have already said in this House to President Conte, who kept my words to the account he considered and, that is, zero - finds in the official press a particularly powerful vehicle and a particularly pervasive spread. You know, Senator Zanda, I'm not here today because I'm Bagnai, president of the Senate Budget Committee, according to Il Sole 24 ORE. If I had 30 minutes, I could give you 30 minutes of personal examples or less of this kind of news. This is barbarism; this is the degradation of democracy that depends not only on us, but also on how the news is conveyed to the citizens, [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u316	As the debate on the agenda concludes, tomorrow's sitting, Thursday 26 October, will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u317	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-151.ana.u318	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 8 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.32 p.m.)
