ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. The Minutes of the sitting of 21 November will be read by the Secretary-General. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u3	On 29 November 2019, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 123 of 24 October 2019, with urgent provisions for the acceleration and completion of the reconstructions in progress in the territories affected by seismic events" (1631).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u4	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, at its meeting on 26 November 2019, declared, pursuant to Article 19 of Legislative Decree no. 533, that, following the death of Senator Franco Ortolani, the seat in the single seat No. 7 of the Campania Region in which Senator Ortolani himself was elected with the majority system has become vacant.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u5	I announce that on 28 November last, the Presidency received a letter with which Senator Donatella Tesei announced her resignation from the Senate following the election as President of the Umbria Regional Council. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Since the resignation was based on incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Assembly can only take note of it. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene for the subsequent determinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u6	On 28 November 2019, the First President of the Court of Cassation sent the following letter: "According to the last paragraph of Article 2 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953, containing rules on the constitution and functioning of the Constitutional Court, I have the honour to inform you that the College of this Supreme Court of Cassation, specially convened, has today elected Dr. Stefano Petitti, Judge of the Constitutional Court, in place of Dr. Giorgio Lattanzi who will cease his office and exercise his duties on 9 December 2019 by the end of the period of appointment. F.to Giovanni Mammone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u7	I think I interpret the thought of all of you in thanking Senator Casini for his commitment to the two Venezuelan MPs and for his continued work in protecting human rights, including as President of the Italian Group of the Interparliamentary Union. Thank you, President Casini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u8	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on amendments to the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u9	Mr President, kind senators and senators, I am here to make timely information about the changes to the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism, not only because I believe it to be necessary after the request that has been made to me, but also because I have always - and I always say - tried to ensure for my part that I have a clear, transparent intercourse with Parliament, respecting the sovereign prerogatives that are incumbent upon this assembly to protect the rights of all citizens. However, I cannot hide, as I have already pointed out to the House, that this information of mine cannot be degraded to an ordinary moment of physiological intercourse between the Government, and in particular the President of the Council who speaks to it, and Parliament. This passage of mine takes on a particular importance. For a few weeks now, the leaders of some opposition forces have been conducting a widespread media campaign, accusing me of adopting, during this negotiation with the European institutions, such inappropriate and illegitimate conduct that I have been responsible for high treason. So I'd be a perjury. This is because I would have failed to fulfil the obligation, assumed at the time when I was appointed President of the Council, to be faithful to the Republic, to observe its Constitution, to exercise my functions in the exclusive interest of the nation. It has even been overshadowed that I would have kept this course of action for biech personal interests, before the primary duty to protect the national interest. This accusation - we can all agree - does not fall within the ordinary political polemic. When I came before you to ask for trust, I called for a mild language for this new political season. You will remember: I hoped that politics with the capital "P" could pay particular attention to the care of words. The accusations that have been made to me, however, largely transcend the most intense tones, the harshest disputes that characterize today's political dialectic, already very little inclined to the care of words. We are faced with a very serious accusation. If the President-in-Office of the Council of having betrayed his mandate to defend the national interest and to have acted in order to protect the interests of the people on all television broadcasts and on all social channels is openly accused, then the assessment plan that we are urged to carry out is completely different. If these accusations had a foundation, we would be faced with the greatest wound, the most serious vulnus inflicted on the credibility of the government authority, with the consequence that those who speak to you could not hesitate for a moment to draw all the consequences: without even waiting for me to be asked by anyone, I would be forced to resign immediately as President of the Council. If, however, these accusations had no foundation and, indeed, if it were proved that those who moved them were well aware of their falsehood, we would have proof that those who are now in opposition and have candidate to rule the country with full powers are demonstrating - and unfortunately it would not be the first time - the poor culture of the rules and the most absolute lack of respect of the institutions. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]] If that were the case, in fact, we would be faced with highly irresponsible behavior. You see, a false accusation of high betrayal of the Constitution is a different matter from the accusation of having committed political errors or having made bad reforms. It is an accusation that not only pollutes the public debate and disorients the citizens who follow us, but it shows the most serious form of defiance, because in order to gain some ephemeral advantage, the credibility of democratic institutions and the trust that citizens place in them end up undermining the foundations. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] In order to attack my person and this Government, there has been no effort to spread alarming and blatantly false news, which has aroused concern among citizens and, in particular, savers. It has been said that the confiscation of the current accounts of savers would be envisaged and that, more generally, all our savings would be put at risk. It has been said that the ESM would only benefit other people's banks and not ours. It has also been said that the ESM would already be signed - yes, this has also been said - at nighttime. Even those who are in opposition - if you will allow me - have tasks of responsibility, especially when we are talking about such important issues and the fate of our country. My information is divided into two parts. The first is to reconstruct in detail the various passages of the negotiations on the ESM and, in particular, the various moments of the intercourse between the Government and Parliament so far. This will be the decisive part - if you will allow me - to assess the merits of the serious accusations that have been made to me. I would like to point out that, in order to allow you Members of Parliament to have a more accurate knowledge of all these passages, I will leave a written text of my speech, accompanied by a faldon with numerous annexes that offer unmistakable documentary support for my reconstruction. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] The second part, on the other hand, the final part, is aimed at discussing the current scenario of merit and the future one with regard to the completion of these changes to the ESM and the remaining reforms that make up the complex issue of Economic and Monetary Union. Let us come to the reconstruction of the negotiations. It started some time ago, in December 2017, when the European Commission presented a package of proposals for the completion of Economic and Monetary Union, including the proposal to reform the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, an intergovernmental agreement - as I recall - signed on 2 February 2012 and entered into force in October of that year, following the ratification of the seventeen Member States of the Eurozone, to which Latvia and Lithuania were added. The ESM was created as a result of a specific amendment to Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and it first accompanied, in time replaced, the European Financial Stability Fund and the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism in the task of providing financial assistance, where necessary, to the euro area Member States. On the reform of the European Stability Mechanism, on the other proposals of the European Commission on the completion of Economic and Monetary Union, since the start of my first experience as a Government, the Italian Parliament has always been constantly updated, as I will demonstrate below. First of all, I spoke to the House, as well as to the Senate, on 27 June and 11 December 2018 for communications with a view to Eurosummit, in which the Commission's proposals on the reform of the ESM were discussed. In the communications made on 27 June 2018, in particular, although the central and almost absorbed theme was immigration, I wanted to address explicitly the issue of the reform of the ESM. In this respect, I said: We do not want a European Monetary Fund which, far from working for fair terms, ends up forcing some countries towards pre-defined restructuring paths, with substantial exauteration of the power to independently develop effective economic policies. Again, on that occasion I specified: This is why we are opposed to any rigidity in the reform of the European Stability Mechanism, especially because new constraints on the debt restructuring process could contribute to financial instability rather than prevent it. Then I'd finish: Nor do we want dangerous duplications with the tasks of the European Commission for fiscal surveillance, which would risk delegitizing the democratic basis of these essential functions for financial stability. During the ensuing debate in the House, most of the speakers did not address this issue, with the exception of Mr Gelmini per Forza Italia and Mr Molinari per la Lega. Both of them merely gave their opinions in principle, which were also consistent with the point made in my speech. To the Senate the only ones to intervene on the subject were Senator Bottici of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senator Bonfrisco of the League and Senator Mauro Maria Marino of the Democratic Party. Senator Bonfrisco, in particular, shared the position I had expressed in the communications, said: You have already said very well, Mr Conte, that we are strongly opposed to a European Monetary Fund which may be similar to other funds which have accompanied the misfortunes of so many countries around the world, which expels Member States in the pursuit of effective economic policies. Senator Marino also warned in his speech that the European Stability Mechanism could be transformed into a European Monetary Fund. On that occasion, none of the other senators, including Senator Bagnai, touched on the subject. Also in the light of the debate in Parliament and the resolutions adopted, at the European Summit on 29 June 2018, I spent my time with the adoption of a declaration by European leaders that, when starting the reform of the ESM, would guide the path towards its strengthening and, in particular, towards the introduction, among other functions, of joint support - the famous common backstop - to the Single Resolution Fund. That same summit gave the Eurogroup a mandate to prepare the necessary terms of reference and to agree on the list of conditions for further development of the ESM. In that first eurosummit in which I participated it was also decided - I must say, with the substantial contribution of Italy - to continue to work on the reform of economic and monetary union, provided that this concerned a whole package of reforms, including, therefore, the opening of negotiations on the European Deposit Insurance System (the acronym is known, EDIS) and deepening the reflection on the fiscal instrument of the eurozone, in order to verify the possibility of developing its stabilisation function. On 11 December 2018, in the course of the Communications to the Chambers, I once again reported on the developments in the negotiations on strengthening Economic and Monetary Union. On that occasion, I said: The Eurogroup on 4 December unfortunately confirmed, in examining the Franco-German proposal in this respect, the clear distance between Member States. In particular, while there has been a willingness on the one hand to deepen the possibility of establishing a common budget for the purpose of convergence and increased competitiveness, on the other hand, there remains a strong contrast of views on the assumption that the common budget should also be given the functions of stabilisation. Again, I continued: Therefore, the progress of this project must be evaluated with caution, giving particular attention to all the profiles and all the passages that characterize it. With regard to the completion of the Banking Union, our vision requires that risk reduction should finally be accompanied by corresponding mutualisation measures. We understand that a different timing on both sides is considered unavoidable; we appreciate the fact that a risk-sharing measure is being put in place, which will be the common backstop for the Single Resolution Fund. However, the new postponement of the decisions on the deposit insurance scheme is for us the signal of a Europe that continues to be influenced by the markets rather than trying to direct them. With regard to the reform of the governance of the European Stability Mechanism, we maintain our reservations about an intergovernmental approach and reiterate that the roles assigned to the European Stability Mechanism must not irreversibly undermine the prerogatives of the European Commission, in particular in the area of tax surveillance. In the debate in the Senate, no Member - not even Senator Bagnai, who had also spoken in general discussion - referred to the subject. The only exception was Senator Fantetti (of Forza Italia), who simply claimed the paternity of the backstop mechanism, attributing it to the minister of the economy of the Berlusconi government, Giulio Tremonti. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] In the debate in the House, however, no one has addressed the issue. As a result of the guidelines expressed by Parliament, also on the basis of the work carried out by the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance participating in the Eurogroup in inclusive format, on 14 December 2018, the debate on the overall package of measures needed to strengthen Economic and Monetary Union continued in Eurosummit. I can therefore say that, a little less than a year ago, Italy, which I represented, expressed itself in Europe in a way that is perfectly consistent with the mandate given by this Parliament. On this basis, the Eurogroup was commissioned to prepare a draft revision of the ESM Treaty. Again, on 19 March 2019, in the course of communications to the Chambers in view of the European Council of 21 and 22 March, although that Council, unlike the December Council, would not have had - attention! - a consideration in the form of Eurosummit, I also wanted to focus on this issue in a widespread way, because of the absolute importance of the issue for the future economic and financial framework of the European Union, driven by the awareness of how decisive it was to keep a constant intercourse with Parliament alive. On that occasion neither the Senate nor the Chamber of Deputies were asked for further details by Members who had spoken in general debate or in an explanation of vote. In the communications of 19 June, in view of the Eurosummit held in Brussels on 21 June, I again addressed this issue, partly because a general consensus on the draft revision of the MES Agreement was reached on 13 June by the Ministers of Economy of the euro area. In particular, in the House, I described, in detail, the contents of the reform. At the outcome of that discussion, a resolution was adopted by the parliamentary majority at that time which, with regard to the reform of the ESM, committed the Government not to approve amendments providing for conditionality that would penalise those Member States most in need of structural reforms and investment, and which undermine the prerogatives of the European Commission in the field of fiscal surveillance; and to promote a joint assessment at European level of the three elements of the deepening package of Economic and Monetary Union, reserving the right to express the final assessment only to the outcome of the detailed definition of all the various components of the package, favouring the so-called package approach, which could allow a political sharing of all the measures concerned. It also undertook to forward to the Chambers proposals for amendments to the ESM Treaty, drawn up at European level, in order to enable Parliament to express itself by means of an act of direction and, consequently, to suspend any final decision until Parliament has given its opinion. In the communications made in the Senate, as you will remember, I expressed my favor for this approach, relating to the whole package of reforms. In particular, I said: I feel that I am marrying this approach, as a Government (...), because I actually believe that continuing only in a single direction, delaying the overall assessments, is by no means a prudent, prudent and recommendable way of proceeding. I said again: 'We must have an overall view of this path, because only this will lead us, then, to express a political assessment, which meets the needs of our citizens and national interests'. In other words, I thought it inappropriate for the Heads of State and Government to decide without a consensual approach on the overall picture of the measures for deepening economic union and banking union and, therefore, not only on the reform of the Treaty on the ESM, but also on the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the Eurozone budget. I also argued that further technical insights were necessary. During the debate, in which, however, very few speeches were made on the subject, Senator Bagnai said (I remember): So allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Comments and applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group at the address of Senator Bagnai, who stands up and turns to the benches of his Group]] to thank you for the fact that you, in accordance with this rule and in complete coherence with that principle of centrality of Parliament, which you stated from the first day in this Chamber that you wanted to respect, have come to tell us that this technical deepening will take place. In line with the parliamentary resolutions adopted on 19 June, in accordance with the Government's commitment to respect the position expressed by the Sovereign Parliament, I asked and obtained, also interrupting the work of the Eurosummit on 21 June, the inclusion, in the summit statements, of the reference to the package approach on the three pillars, which we all know well now. I quote the specific point of the leaders' statement, which called for laborious bargaining: We invite the Eurogroup in inclusive format to continue its work on all the elements of this global package. Moreover, on the reform of the ESM Treaty, once again at the specific request of Italy, it was decided that the procedures for national ratifications would be initiated only when all the documentation had been agreed and finalized. It seems to me almost superfluous to confirm to this House a fact of all evidence, namely that neither on my part nor on the part of any member of my Government, in particular of the previous Government, has there been the signing of a treaty that is still incomplete. In fact, no treaty has yet been signed by the European countries, and it is equally clear that, in that case, I would have informed Parliament in advance, not only because I had to do so under the law (Law 234 of 2012), but also because of the absolute respect that I have always paid to this institution. But it's not just that. You see: the intercourse with Parliament has not been limited to the occasions on which I personally communicated to the Chambers in view of the European summits. In addition to these activities, carried out personally and on which I have already focused, other members of the Government that I had previously led helped to foster the proper dialogue with Parliament. On several occasions, several ministers, going to the Permanent Committees of the Chamber and the Senate, addressed directly the issues related to the prospects for reform of the Economic and Monetary Union, the Government's intentions in this area and, in particular, the reform of the ESM. The then Minister of Economics and Finance, Giovanni Tria, in his communications on the policy lines of his Dicastery in front of the 6th Senate Commission, at its meeting on 17 July 2018, addressed, among other things, the issue of the revision of the Treaty establishing the ESM. The permanent representative of Italy to the European Union, Ambassador Massari, also reported on the ESM, was invited to the hearing before the Chamber's 14th and 14th Commissions. Furthermore, at the request of Mr Fassina, at the sitting of 17 April 2019, Mr Tria again referred to the ESM Treaty and on 31 July he replied to an immediate question by Mr Borghi on the same subject. Minister Tria himself fulfilled the obligation imposed by Italian legislation, sending the draft text of the revision of the Treaty establishing the ESM to the Presidents of the Chambers, by letter dated 9 August. The then Minister for European Affairs Paolo Savona, invited to the hearing by the Joint Commissions 3rd and 14th of the Senate and III and XIV of the Chamber, at its meeting on 30 January 2019, also addressed the issue. In addition, in Parliament's proceedings you will also find an accurate update on the outcome of the last Eurosummit, carried out by the then Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi, at the meeting of the Joint Commissions 3rd and 14th of the Senate and III and XIV of the Chamber, at the session of 27 June 2019. On each of these occasions, MEPs were able to speak and submit further questions and requests for further consideration to ministers from time to time. In conclusion, given the numerous speeches made in the Assembly and in the parliamentary committees, both in the House and in the Senate, we can all agree that the accusations made in recent days by various opposition politicians about a lack of information and consultation on this sensitive and so relevant matter are completely false. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator Errani.]] Without prejudice to the fact that President Centeno draws up a report on the work of the Eurogroup which is available on the official website of the European Union. I would also like to point out that everything that happened on the European tables (I speak of the technical level and also of the political level) was fully known by the members of the first government I led, who took part in the various Councils of Ministers, helping to define the choir position of the Italian Executive on the subject. In particular, I recall the Council of Ministers of 21 December 2018. Minister for European Affairs then was Paolo Savona, who found himself presenting (later appended to the minutes) the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019. Of course, there is no point in pointing out that in a passage in the programme report there is a specific, articulated reference to the ongoing negotiations on the reform of the ESM. In the subsequent Council of Ministers of 27 February 2019, the consultative report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2018 was also presented and explained in detail. The consultative report states, among other things: With specific reference to the reform of the ESM, the compromise reached concerned, first, the revision of its precautionary financial support instruments (...). With regard to the cooperation relations between ESM and the Commission, both within and outside the financial assistance programmes, a joint agreement between the two institutions established its cooperation in the design of programme-related conditionality and foreshadowed its complementarity of roles in the analysis on debt sustainability. In addition, the report continues to provide for a possible role of "facilitator" by ESM in the dialogue between creditors and Member States in the case of debt restructuring operations (with an informal, non-binding ESM involvement, on a confidential basis and, above all, only at the request of the Member State). With regard to the revision of the collective action clauses (...) the so-called CACs, of which the public debate has now taken hold, continues the report in the legal documentation underlying the government bonds issued by the countries of the euro area, finally, the agreement reached provides for the introduction of " single lemb " CACS by 2022, including this commitment in the MES Treaty. Now, it is important to stress, from now on, how the agreement reached in the negotiations on these so-called "single lemb" clauses was specifically addressed in the report. I would also like to draw attention to the passage of the report, which, I repeat, was shared by the Council of Ministers and then approved by Parliament, which notes that, thanks also to the Italian initiative, it has been avoided that the final agreement included measures, requested by several Member States, relating to mechanisms for automatic restructuring of sovereign debt and the role of the ESM in fiscal surveillance or debt sustainability analysis and that, again, the Government has followed up the acts of direction formulated by the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies in relation to the package of legislative proposals and communications submitted to the European Commission on 6 December 2017 on the various aspects of the completion and strengthening of economic and monetary union. During that meeting of the Council of Ministers (I speak of the sitting on 27 February 2019) all these passages were unanimously noted. None of the Ministers present, including those of the League, objected to the point and, in particular, the report to be submitted to the Chambers. Both reports have been submitted to the Chambers, as required by law, and approved definitively by Parliament after a wide-ranging debate at various meetings of the Commissions. I am not quoting them, but in the House of Members there were the views in favour from I to the XIII Committee and then, of course, these opinions were added to the approval by the XIV Commission on the policies of the European Union of the programme report on 21 March 2019. In particular, there was also an intervention in the fifth budget committee chaired by Mr Borghi, which gave a favourable opinion on the programme report. This favourable opinion was shared by Mr Borghi, President of the Commission, and, on behalf of the Government, by the Undersecretary Massimo Garavaglia, who, in distance from a previous critical speech by Mr Bellachioma, considered the proposal for a favourable opinion to be balanced. At the Senate, then, the Political Commission of the European Union, at its meeting on 24 July 2019, approved both relations (programmatic and consuntive), with the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star and League Groups, also after the favourable opinions of the various Permanent Commissions. It is obvious that the parliamentary passages on the two reports, in which the content of the reform of the ESM in its present form was already present, were many and all concluded with a vote in favour of the line held by the Government during the negotiations. I would remind you that the Ministers were also members of the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs, chaired by the then Minister Savona, and there would also have been another opportunity there to legitimately raise the issue, objections and issues, as well as to express doubts. In addition, I note that, after a careful and scrupulous review of the agenda of my secretariat - the secretariat of the Presidency of the Council - I have been able to ascertain that there have been numerous meetings and political summits in which they took part, as is also apparent from the formal convocations, Ministers, Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries and in any case various political representatives delegated by the majority forces to confront themselves on this specific subject. In particular, between June 2018 and June 2019, four specific meetings on banking and monetary union took place, where the ESM was also discussed in depth. During the same period, seven meetings were held on the economic governance of the European Union. More recently, during my second term as a government, the intercourse with Parliament continued - again constantly here - as demonstrated by the Secretary of State, Agea,'s response to the question presented in the Political Commission of the European Union of the Chamber, at its meeting on 21 November 2019, and the information given a few days ago - at its meeting on 27 November 2019 - by Minister Gualtieri to the Commissions of Finance and Treasury and Policies of the European Union of the Senate. Let me sum it up. In the light of the reconstruction just summarized above, supported by precise documentary evidence - they are all here, I leave them to you - no one today can afford not to say to openly support, but also to insinuate veilly the idea that the process of reform of the European Stability Mechanism has been conducted secretly or, worse, signed at nighttime. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Misto Leu Groups]] In fact, not only has there been full sharing within the Government, but there has been constant dialogue and in-depth updating with the Italian Parliament on this matter. I shall now turn to the second and final part of the report, which deals with the whole. The debate that is taking place in Europe on the subject of the ESM and other related reforms is crucial for Italy and for the future of the Union itself. I would say that the Italian Parliament has recognized the importance of this passage, because it has emphasized it in the various pronunciations and also, in particular, in the resolution voted on last June, according to which it is necessary - as I recall - to have a joint evaluation of the three elements of the package for deepening economic and monetary union. However, this debate should not be exploited with distorted news and fueled by accusations of no foundation that risk - you see - damaging our country and - yes - compromising the national interest. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] First of all, it must be made clear that our country has a fully sustainable public debt, as well as the markets, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, so there is no need to activate the European Stability Mechanism on the horizon. On the contrary, this debate could be the occasion - and I would be delighted if everyone could really converge in this direction here - to reaffirm and relaunch the role of our country in helping to design the new architecture of the European Economic and Monetary Union in a sense consistent with the interest of the nation. The current controversy risks distracting and distracting from the need to express an overall strategy of reform of the European architecture of which Italy, for its historical importance as the founding country and for its current relevance, must be active protagonist. Let us stop and consider the parts of the reform which, even in the public debate, have attracted the greatest criticism. With regard to the danger of automatism in debt restructuring that would be introduced by the Reformed Treaty, it should be reiterated that the new text does not alter at all the rules on the involvement of the private sector in the possible restructuring of the country's public debt receiving financial assistance from the ESM. Point 12B of the preamble to the new Treaty states: In exceptional cases, an appropriate and proportionate form of private sector participation, in line with the practice of the International Monetary Fund, shall be taken into account where stability support is provided on the basis of conditions taking the form of a macro-economic adjustment programme. The text of the previous Treaty, at the same point, stated: In accordance with the practice of the International Monetary Fund, an appropriate and proportionate form of private sector participation is considered in exceptional cases where stability support is provided on the basis of conditions taking the form of a macro-economic adjustment programme, as you see, it cannot then be said that there are substantial changes. Similarly, the new Treaty leaves a far from automatic assessment of the sustainability of debt and the macroeconomic conditions of the countries benefiting from the ESM intervention, in line with what Italy specifically claims, which has opposed other countries that would instead have wanted to impose greater automation. In fact, Article 13 of the new Treaty, which governs the procedure for granting stability support, states that the transposition of the application for financial aid by a Member State of the ESM (I) The President of the Board of Governors shall instruct (i) the Director-General and (ii) the European Commission, in agreement with the ECB, to carry out jointly the tasks of which, in point (b), it shall be indicated that the sustainability of the public debt and the ability to repay stability support shall be assessed. The assessment shall be carried out in the spirit of transparency and predictability, while allowing sufficient discretion. This last forecast is worth greatly mitigating - and I would say that this is not an opinion - any form of automatism that was - this yes - in previous versions. Without further commenting on this point, in several parts the Treaty - as I recall - returns to the central role of the European Commission in relation to the coherence of guidelines and assessments that must exist between this and the ESM. On the other hand, it could not be otherwise, as stated in Article 12 (5) of the new Treaty, according to which the European Commission will ensure that financial assistance operations carried out by the ESM under this Treaty are, where relevant, consistent with European Union law, in particular with the measures for the coordination of economic policies provided for in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The new Treaty not only avoids dangerous automation, but also introduces the common backstop, which guarantees - as we know now - additional resources for the interventions of the Single Resolution Fund provided for by the Single Resolution Mechanism, making support in the event of a banking crisis more robust. The negotiations have experienced many critical passages. A number of proposals for amending our national interests in the worst sense have been decidedly rejected - I can assure you that some of them were very insidious - behind the strong political indication of the first Executive that I led as a whole and also thanks to the decisive contribution of Parliament. There have been particularly difficult moments in this negotiation when I myself was not at all happy with the way it was going. For example, the strong claim of some countries that aimed to give the ESM a leading role or, in any case, equiordained to the Commission regarding the analysis of debt sustainability has been countered. If some profiles can be the subject of a different assessment - there is a margin for objection - we can say, however, that the negotiations conducted so far have reached a balance in line with national interests and, above all, led to the introduction of the so-called backstop. In any case, we must not neglect the remaining negotiations. We cannot remain distracted by the remaining negotiations, which concern equally important documents and texts because they are likely to define the concrete operational features of the instrument. Italy, precisely with regard to the controversial theme of the so-called collective action clauses (CACs) single-limb, will have to fight to obtain that the possibility to carry out subaggregations is maintained. This means that through this the vote can be made for aggregate groups specifically in order to differentiate the positions of the different bondholders. The result of the subgregation must be considered as particularly suited to the specificity of the Italian public debt, consisting of a multiplicity of different instruments for financial characteristics, deadlines, indexing and type of investors, such as to require a diversification of the proposal in order to ensure fair treatment. Italy is, therefore, still engaged in a negotiation aimed at defining the common framework of rules that maintain the elasticity of the dual lemb model and, indeed, in some cases even increases them, while limiting the risk of hold out, typically exercised by investors that are characterized by the tendency to strong speculation. This aspect is also linked to the very important issue of whether or not the minimum thresholds identifying the binding deliberative quorums then erga omnes in the event of the vote of the bondholders. Also on this last aspect there is a serious snare: some countries ask for the lowering of these thresholds, while Italy considers the maintenance of the current thresholds of two thirds indispensable. In conclusion, however, I would like to extend the reflection, in addition to the mere recognition of the Treaty amendments, to what our country can contribute to the strengthening of economic and monetary union, with a view to the construction of a Europe more responsive to the interests of our citizens. The ESM - attention - is only part of a new European architecture that must be credible in relation to current circumstances and future circumstances. The ESM represents a form of collective insurance against the risk of contagion, providing, according to clear and certain procedures, financial aid to the member countries in momentary difficulty, according to a logic of healthy, but responsible mutual assistance, thus limiting also the dangers of contagion. It is no coincidence that it stems from the tragic experience of 2011 and 2012, when panic spread on the European sovereign bond market, with consequences that we know proved to be pernicious. The ESM is not directed against a particular country or built to the advantage of some countries at the expense of others. It is an insurance against the danger of contagion and financial panic and it benefits everyone. Like any stability instrument, this also needs a clear and transparent framework, so that there are guarantees of reimbursement according to a predefined case-by-case plan. Attention: the mutual assistance element is to ensure that other Member States are provided with funds at reasonable costs, when access to financial markets is not achieved but at unsustainable costs, which in themselves already undermine financial stability. During this negotiation, we... (The Senators of the Group) [[L-SP-PSd'Az show a sign bearing the inscription "The Count Pinocchio". Senator Zuliani shows a Pinocchio nose made with a sheet of paper. On the benches of the Group L-SP-PSd'Az there is a wooden puppet depicting Pinocchio. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u10	Please leave the sign. I asked to remove everything that's not part of it... is there a Pinocchio there? [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group indicate the benches of the government.]] Can you take it off? I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 16.37 p.m. and resumed at 4.40 p.m.) The session is resumed. Please, President Count.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u11	In the negotiations we sought and obtained rules that were beneficial for Italy, both in the remotest - and I stress very remotely - should we also come to ask for funds from the ESM, and in those, much more frequent, in which Italy found itself on the side of those who provide the loan. The best way to deal with this complex and complex reform is not to rely on sterile polemics that would feed a Manichaean representation among the supposed jealous guardians of the patriotic interest and, instead, the succubs ready to collect the European Diktats. The most effective way is to deepen the dossiers and to draw up proposals to be taken to the negotiating tables to which we participate; serious proposals, concrete and feasible, so that they can have as much impact as possible on the reform process in place in the sense that is most in line with the interests of Italy. In the current debate some opinions were raised by those who considered that having included in the Treaty the concept of debt sustainability for those who receive the loan and also negative had defined clear rules for the repayment of the loan. I have followed the debate very closely from this point of view too, but - carefully, think about it for a moment - we must not forget that if the Stability Mechanism were not entrusted to clear and certain rules regarding access to and repayment of funds, we would now be discussing the inventiveness of having allowed the savings of our fellow citizens to be used in favour of countries which do not appear to be able to repay loans. It is a good thing and it is a duty for Parliament to be the protagonist; it is a good thing that there is a serious discussion on issues that are so important for our future. I am sure that this can give rise to a positive impetus for our contribution to the European negotiations. In order for this to happen, however, we must maintain the approach that Parliament rightly called for last June and which the Government followed in its negotiations: that we look at the architecture that we are defining in Europe as a whole according to a package logic. Italy must continue to work to ensure that the architecture we are building is overall sound and effective; we must work in Europe to ensure that the process of completing Economic and Monetary Union leads to full integration of financial markets and eliminate the weaknesses still present in its constitution. This is the main way to defend our interests, to reach a stronger, more inclusive, more supportive and more sustainable Europe. Instead of proclamations without any purposeful content, I believe that we must concentrate our efforts so that the new architecture does not stand on a single leg represented by the reform of the ESM. If the ambition proposed by the countries adopting the single currency were to translate exclusively into this, this would mean that governments have not learned enough from the history of the last decade. That is why, in line with the "package logic," which the Government considers to be an essential element of negotiation, I believe that, alongside the ESM, common budgetary instruments must coexist with greater funds and wider objectives. BICC is a step in the right direction, but we must do more and better, starting with European unemployment insurance. Furthermore, it is essential that a common deposit insurance system, the so-called EDIS, be fully defined, which can lead to a genuine mutualisation of risks. The government's assessment, with regard to the reforms under discussion at the next Eurogroup set - as you know - for 4 December, cannot be without the awareness that there is still a long way to go in this direction and that the logic of the package is the best way to proceed further, with regard to the completion of the ESM, the fiscal instrument for competitiveness and convergence and the definition of the roadmap on the Banking Union. As far as I am concerned, I will soon be coming back to you on the state of the negotiations in a few days' time, on 11 December, on the occasion of the communications which I shall make with a view to the next European Council and I will be waiting for the sovereign determinations of this Parliament. In view of this, it seems necessary to achieve a more complete integration of European financial markets, which are still very fragmented, and this certainly has a negative impact on resource efficiency, but also on growth and social development, thus holding back the reduction of imbalances between countries. A key element in completing this integration is the creation of a safe asset for the countries of monetary union, which is essential as a reference rate for the conduct of monetary policy, as a financial instrument to facilitate the diversification of bank portfolios, as well as as as an element of overall stability of the European monetary union in the face of the risk of shock. On the contrary, a change in the prudential treatment of government bonds in banking regulation would, yes, be a very negative prospect and the Italian Government will oppose it with the utmost determination. These are the stakes on which Italy can and must deal; this is also the long-term horizon that we must all give ourselves together and that must guide our steps to protect our national interests. The Government has kept to the letter the substance of the resolution voted by Parliament last June and, as in the past, will always act in compliance with the mandate conferred. I hope that Parliament, by its authority and by virtue of its democratic legitimacy, will contribute to bringing to Europe the voice of a strong and cohesive country, which is committed to making its contribution to strengthening the European institutions according to a plan that, while respecting our national interest, leads to a more robust architecture, to a balanced sharing of risks, which would have as a final effect that of reducing them for all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u12	I greet the students of the Istituto Superiore (Higher Institute), Giuseppe Fracassetti, Fermo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u15	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a request to you, but I would like to address the whole House. I believe that the subject of information is important and complex; it proves that the intervention of the President of the Council, even after the "Vicenda Pinocchio" has been one hour. Therefore, since the government's information usually lasts between twenty and thirty minutes, so the timing of the discussion had been correctly allocated ten minutes per group, I am asking whether we cannot give fifteen minutes per group today, so that, with the intervention of all eight groups, in a couple of hours we can balance the intervention of the President of the Council, if we want a balance between government and Parliament, because otherwise, with the speeches of the eight groups, the Assembly would speak little more than what the President of the Council has said. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u16	Is there anyone who wants to speak on this point?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u19	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, if I understood correctly, President Calderoli's request would be to give five more minutes to each group. As far as we are concerned, in accordance with President Conte's willingness to remain here, we have nothing against it. [[Ironic comments by the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, I apologize, show as usual your ability to understand situations. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u22	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr Calderoli's request seems reasonable to me. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council, given the importance of the issues, will also be able to add a few more minutes of his presence in Parliament: I say this with upbringing and without tone of challenge. I therefore believe that a slight extension of the timetable is right.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u23	Colleagues, given the importance of the subject, I had already allocated ten minutes per Group, unlike the Chamber of Deputies, where each Group was given five minutes. So I add four more minutes to the Group. [[Brusio]] I call on each Group to inform the Presidency how these minutes will be distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u24	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of course I am part of that scattered group of people - media or politicians who are - who do not cease to wonder at the astonishment of others, a general amazement, we were not even talking about something very secret, which no one knew, which no one had ever seen and which the sole 007 of the various parties have finally discovered to clarify. Where were you? [[Applause from Senator Bressa]] Excuse me, Salvini, and I apologise to the other colleagues: where were you during all the summits and discussions on which the President told us and gave us some insights? Moreover, the excellent information recently given by Minister Gualtieri before the Commissions meeting 6a and 14a had already made a clean slate of all the buffaloes on secrecy, on the signatures affixed at night: but what are you talking about? Were you distracted? That's your problem. We were not distracted and we have signed motions and resolutions which I believe - I too am opposed to it - the Government has followed. Yet the hoaxes continue. Let there be no illusions, Mr President; let there be no illusions. And we will continue to hear - with the complicity and connivance of journalists also misplaced from the point of view of balance, let's say - phrases of the kind, I quote: The ESM is a private body that has the possibility to decide who to give and who to take away the money. There is no way to make it clear that this is not the case. I say that as a federalist; indeed, if anything, it is a step forward in the intergovernmental, but the federalist battle on all this matter we lost in 1992. I hope it will win again, but for the time being it is intergovernmental management. The ESM is a public institution, founded on an international treaty, directed in its decision-making bodies by the Ministers of Economy and Finance, in a board in which Italy also sits. Is that clear? And we're gonna keep going. More recently it was said: this is a mechanism that takes away from the poor to give to the rich. Guys, if we're at these levels, we can't take it anymore. I understand that the Mechanism, for those who are not of matter, may seem complex; but getting to the trivialization of taking away from the poor to give to the rich, almost a novel Robin Hood on the reverse, is not a work of information; it is not a work of transparency. They're also hoaxes. Just as I am also hoaxed that this is an automatic mechanism: no, lords Italy before, the Italians before. It is the country that makes the request to activate this mechanism; there is no automatism of any kind. If the country does not feel it needs it, it does not make the request and the mechanism does not start, just as it did not set in motion for four countries (Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus) that have not restructured the debt, while Greece has done so. So, we should do clean tabs and, besides opening our mouths, activate the brain because, as Victor Hugo said, many mouths speak, few brains think. I have the impression that, with Facebook's connivance, we entered exactly this tunnel. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). In spite, moreover - and I conclude - of a reputational damage which you, who are looking at within the ring agreement, do not realize. The scene of the fight in the House made the tour of the European Capitals. You do not realize that there are not only internal positioning problems; there is a... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u25	Senator Bonino, he's gone through a lot.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u26	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). All right, ma'am. I'm done. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB, PD and Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u27	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u28	Mr President, members of the Government, clarify the coherence and transparency of the work carried out by President Conte in the face of this campaign of attacks and denigration, which therefore does not help even the judgement of authority and credibility on our country, however, it is time to bring back the debate and discussion on the merit of the reform of the European Stability Mechanism; to assess whether the reform contains elements of criticality for our country. An evaluation, therefore, as well as a technical, purely political evaluation of a Mechanism which - as you reminded us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - has already been in force since 2012 and the modification of which has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate in Europe, among the summits of the Member States, from December to June 2019. An internal discussion between Parliament and Government, within Parliament, in Commissions 6a and 14a. Therefore, certainly the forces that were then in the government, especially the League, that launched these denigratory attacks - and in particular Senator Salvini, then vice president - cannot be said to be foreign or that everything happened without their knowledge. The ESM is undoubtedly a valuable institution, because it has made a decisive contribution to resolving the crises in countries that had lost access to the market. In fact, therefore, the ESM is an institution that plays the role of lesser of last resort in monetary union and the mere fact that there is this institution reassures the markets thus making it less likely to repeat crisis situations. In essence, the Mechanism is an insurance that we pay, like all other countries that will sign it, but that protects us from the possibility of a crisis, a difficulty, a instability. The fact that up to now Italy has not used it, in fact, does not mean that the insurance is useless. We add that the ESM represents an important manifestation of the principle of solidarity among the most solid countries of the eurozone, such as Germany, towards the less solid countries and we remember that as many as five countries have already used this Mechanism: Greece, for three different packages, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus. It is therefore a mechanism that we can define as a crutch for the stability of Europe and protection for the eurozone, so also for our country. In fact, it should also be considered that the ESM loans are the gateway to the European Central Bank's outright monetary transaction, i.e. those operations that were launched in 2012 and that, together with the famous phrase of Mario Draghi "whatever it takes" had a strong calmer effect on the markets. It is true that it is governed by an ad hoc treaty, referred to in the Fiscal Compact Treaty, and is therefore outside the scope of the European Union. That, Mr President, is the important limit, because it accentuates the intergovernmental character of some of the most important decisions of the eurozone. This does not mean, however, that it does not have democratic legitimacy, since the shareholders of the ESM are the same States and governments themselves. However, in particular, we must ask that the political debate parallel to the reform of the ESM continue, as you reminded us earlier, on the European Commission's proposal to create a European Monetary Fund and a Eurozone Finance Minister, with a budget capable of carrying out macroeconomic stabilisation functions and, in short, that the debate on the whole package continue, on the overall package that has already been under discussion since 2017. Given that the time available to me is about to end, I would like one minute to remind you that the critical aspects raised, namely the idea that a country to ask for aid from the ESM must forcefully and in advance restructure the debt and that the axis has been moved from the power of the European Commission to a technical intergovernmental panel or even to the managing director, are actually resolved, as was pointed out, by Article 13 of the Treaty, in which it is clarified that the last word in assessing the reliability and sustainability of the debt is still the responsibility of the European Commission. In conclusion, I believe that the ESM is an institution that must continue to have the full support of Italy. The reform proposals made by the Eurogroup last June, in relation to the backstop and the Single Resolution Fund of the banks, have positive aspects, but which, as we have said, must be assessed in parallel with the establishment of a mechanism for stabilising the eurozone and therefore in the context of the implementation of the three pillars of the banking union, for the completion of economic and monetary union. Of course, however, the complexity of these issues cannot be exploited for disinformation or, as someone has called this propaganda, political terrorism, by forces which are ideologically anti-European and who have only taken the opportunity of this debate, to attack again the hypothesis of a further step in the process of European integration. We wouldn't be interested in Europe, of course, we wouldn't be interested in a democratic debate, we wouldn't be interested in the country and the Italians. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senators Casini and Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u29	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall make three brief comments which I address to the attention of the Government and the House and which I hope will be taken into account if we do not really want to put national interest at risk. First, Italy, given its high public debt, is the country that has the greatest national interest in the existence of the ESM, a well-hung ESM and operating rules that make it agile and ready in case of need. Even if Italy should never resort to the support of the ESM, the support is already silent and daily. In the absence of ESM today and in the absence of a reformed ESM tomorrow, all the interest rates and spreads of all countries on Germany, today would be much higher if the entire eurozone did not enjoy this shield; ours, we are right to believe while believing in the sustainability of our debt, would be higher than the others in this upward movement. Not surprisingly, in 2012 Italy fought decisively, bringing Spain and France, which until then had been glued to Germany, to arrive at the unanimous decision to make the resources of the saved-state fund available to stabilise the markets for government bonds, before the states died and needed to be resurrected. Secondly, could Italy block this revision of the ESM Treaty for a better one? Attention: this is an intergovernmental treaty and it cannot be excluded that the other Contracting States, having noted that the debate in the Italian Parliament has very radical reservations here and there, not marginal, about the Mechanism, can decide to proceed in the meantime to conclude the Treaty among themselves, letting Italy reflect well and in the meantime remain outside, perhaps in the cold, and then enter as Lithuania and others have done. Thirdly, as far as sustainability is concerned, I share the calmly and moderately optimistic vision presented by the President of the Council on the sustainability of Italian debt. I would suggest that we make more use of the reference to the public total debt, explicit and implicit, including the public pension system component. If we present our debt in this way, we are in a relatively better situation than Germany, for example, not to mention the United States, as the last issue of the newspaper "The Economist" highlighted. Of course, then, for consistency, we should not proceed to hits at 100. My final point is personal to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I know it hurts, and I know from experience, to be accused of betraying national interest. Don't let it impress you. If her conscience is quiet, and for a moment I'm forced to call her "you": Don't take care of them, but look and pass. Some of them are serial accusers. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Comments from PD and IV-PSI groups and government benches]] It may also happen that they accuse you of taking measures that they or their parties have supported. Not a lawsuit, ma'am. Rather, they assess the competent authorities whether certain false or tendentious statements do not indicate the extremes of the exercise. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and IV-PSI. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u31	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u32	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u33	Mr President, I speak to you and to those who follow us from home. I'm not going to answer the insults. As I told the reporters, we answer with work. [[Ironic Comments from PD and M5S Groups.Senator Romeo's Comments]] The Italians, from a President of the Council, expect answers and solutions, not insults. I am sorry for you, however, President Conte, because you live badly; because those who live with anger, resentment, threats and insults live badly. Have a life. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] It's been a long time since August, and the only thing that hasn't changed is his attitude. Meanwhile, however, Ilva workers and Alitalia employees have tried on their skin what it means to deal with someone who preaches well, but it rockets very badly. I turn to the friends of the Five Star Movement. I followed the intervention of your Deputy Parent in the House: the Treaty must be renegotiated. Only in the end can we vote in Parliament. We have reservations about reform. Changes are needed. We need to be heard. Unfortunately, there is a concrete hypothesis of restructuring the public debt. We also have reservations about the Banking Union. Every Member of Parliament must be able to intervene on this Treaty. Perfect. So, there's someone there who's lying. [[Comments of Senator Lanzi]] There's someone on the government desks who's lying. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Bottici]] I share your demands. I share the requests made to the House by the 5 Star Movement Group. We want to understand. We want to change. Luigi Di Maio himself said: we accept nothing in the dark. Then, at one o'clock, President Conte: either you don't understand or understand too well. When the Ansa came out this afternoon, in which the Eurogroup says: the ESM is approved; what the head has; the sooner you vote better it is; when Minister Gualtieri, in the Commission, says: it is not amendable; it is so; either you eat soup or you skip this window, then there is someone lying among those benches. You decide whether President Conte is lying or whether Minister Gualtieri is lying. I hope that you are not complicit in this lie that will fall on the heads and savings of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Bottici and Senator Mirabelli]] Someone here doesn't say it right. MIRABELLI (PD). Yeah, it's you! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). To the eye, they're the ones who don't look you in the face who don't tell it right. They are the ones who go to the workers to explain that they have no solutions. They are the ones who deny what the Governor of Bankitalia says. I remember who's at home that I've heard here about nationalisms, sovereignisms, populisms. This Treaty carries enormous risks. Huge risks. The president of the ABI, Patuelli, said: we were not involved and, if you go on like this, we no longer buy public debt securities. Look who's putting Italian savings at risk. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's sitting there who's putting Italian savings at risk. He's sitting there! [[Comments of Senators Matrisciano and Nocerino.]] But political controversy leaves the time it finds. Here are the efforts, sacrifices and savings of millions of Italians. No more reading. I am sorry that Senator Bonino said that there are also accomplice journalists, dumb idiots, deranged and sovereignists. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). That's what you said! I didn't say that! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). So here are some crazy senators, some crazy journalists, some crazy economists, some crazy university teachers. Perhaps the only fools are those who are destroying the dream that the founding fathers of the European Union wanted to leave to us and our children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] COLLINA (PD). And you're the defender of Europe? SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You are reducing a commercial centre to Europe, where you earn those who already have and lose those who do not have. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Collina]] Renovation of the public debate simply means, as written on "Milano Finanza" (unless it is also an organ of subversion, populism and international sovereignism), that the risk of a night-time intervention on the current accounts of Italians is silenced. [[Comments from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Come on! SALVINI Matteo (L-SP-PSd'Az). I remind those who look at us (not those who are there and pretend not to understand, but those who are at home) that of the 202 billion lent to the Greeks to save the Greeks, the Greek citizens, the Greek workers, the Greek students and the sick in Greece remained 5% of that money, while the others went to the French and German banks. I repeat: French and German. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] And so it would end like this. Same. This is the MES: 124 billion euros of Italian citizens to help banks in difficulty, which, according to all analysts, are not in Italy, but in Germany. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We would take away the savings of the Italians to go and save the German banks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] I wonder if the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars agree on this, as asked by Vice Prime Minister Di Maio. President of the Council, very small parenthesis: if I were you I would worry, because while you spoke - I am sorry for the students of Fermo if they survived - there were 60 Members missing from your majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even his senators didn't come here to listen to you. [[Comments from M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Look at that. Don't look at this. Look at the trust they have in her. There she is. Look at this stuff and tell me if it's normal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from M5S, PD eIV-PSI Groups. Recalls of the President]] BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). What's he saying? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let's talk. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Marcucci]] MIRABELLI (PD). Why are you calling us back? SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Saturday and Sunday, if you don't offend us, if you don't want to denounce us all, we will be in 1,000 Italian squares explaining to the Italians what the MES is. LANZI (M5S). Get a rally! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We will be in the squares collecting the signatures of the Italians to stop a treaty that sells out the future of our children to save someone's chair. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're trading someone's chair for our children's future, and we're not gonna let you. We will use what democracy allows us to do. Dr. Salerno Aletta wrote about Milan Finance. I call on my colleagues - at least those of the League - not to call it more fund saves states. It is not a fund that saves states, but a fund cuts states and, if anything, a fund saves banks. You use the money of the countries in difficulty to help the banks of the countries that are not in difficulty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And if one day we need to be helped, we'll have to ask for permission and cut, cut and cut. Mr. Count, we're not going to allow you to bring the tax back at the expense of Italian citizens. Not this one! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups]] That says, I don't know if she's there or she's doing it, but that says it. LANZI (M5S). President, time! They're long, these five minutes. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). As a people's lawyer, I expected attention for what the people say and think. But time is gallant man, lies have very, very short legs. [[Comments from PD and Mixed Groups.]] BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). You learned that the hard way! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I understand that defending the indefensible is heavy, I would never want to be in your shoes. I repeat, I would never want to be in your shoes, because one day Italy will ask you to account. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I remember that when the directive on banks, on the bail in, was voted, there was enthusiasm from the PD. Now the directive on banks has neither fathers nor mothers because it has ruined hundreds of thousands of Italian savers. The reform of this Treaty would be far worse than the Banking Directive. But we will remember, in case someone signs, the dads and moms of this reform. President Conte, you are here today because the League has moved, otherwise your task would have kept it locked in a drawer of Palazzo Chigi and we would have read in the newspapers that he had gone to sign the Treaty in Brussels. Get back to the courtroom. I ask the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars to bring a majority document to this House. If you have changed your mind about June, in democracy you accept everything, but tell the Italians. President Conte, with extreme tranquility and serenity we leave your arrogance. Keeping Our Humility Close [[Laughter from the PD Group and Senator Lanzi.]] It seems that in Umbria the judgment on her has given it and we expect that of the citizens of Calabria, Emilia-Romagna, Liguria, Veneto, Tuscany, Apulia, Campania and soon also of 60 million Italians. Italy is a great country, it has survived many problems and it will survive you too, Count, don't worry. MIRABELLI (PD). He'll survive you, too. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Since I see her much more nervous and concerned than last August and I understand her, I conclude with Confucius by saying that the superior man - and I am certainly not - is calm without being arrogant; the man is just arrogant without being calm. Long live Italy, live freedom, live democracy. We wait for you in one of the thousand squares on Saturday and Sunday. Open parenthesis: be ashamed! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group whose senators stand up. Congratulations. Senator Salvini leaves the Chamber. Reiterate protests from M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups]] LANZI (M5S). He spoke ten minutes! MIRABELLI (PD). Are you ashamed? How dare you? (Senator Marcucci goes to the chair.) CROATTI (M5S). You can do whatever you want. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame! Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). You have to call him back! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Hello, sardines! [[Protests from PD, IV-PSI and Mixed LEU Groups]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u34	I believe that the senators of this House and also Senator Salvini cannot tell the President-in-Office of the Council to be ashamed of himself, because it is a frankly disrespectful expression. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] We're not at the stadium here, so I don't want applause from anyone. There's no typhoseries! (Many Senators from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group [[They display signs bearing the words: "Conte si embarrassi" (Conte si embarrassed).]] Let's get the signs out! I believe that the institutions must always have respect. Clear the signs! (Parliamentary assistants, who withdraw the cartels, take the floor.) LANZI (M5S). Send them out! Mr Marcucci (PD). Ma'am, they're making fun of you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In order to express a dissent there is no need to launch insults, wherever they come from, but on all sides I would like respect. This House calls for respect for all and for the opinions of all. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Good girl. STEFANO (PD). From there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. (Senator De Vecchis re-exposes the sign.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u35	Mr President, I am speaking if I have the opportunity to speak. I am sorry that such a serious and serious subject... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). President, you must state the names and surnames of those who display signs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Vecchis, you can't show signs in the Chamber. Mr Marcucci (PD). There are threats from Senator Centinario. (Senator Centinario discusses with some Senators of the M5S Group.) MIRABELLI (PD). President, look at Senator Centinario.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u36	I don't understand anything. Threats? What did he do? If you scream, I don't understand anything from here. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.26 p.m. and resumed at 527 p.m.) The session is resumed. Please, Senator Pittella.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u37	Mr President, I was saying that it seems to me to be a serious subject and dealt with seriously, with a point, but not with anger by the President-in-Office of the Council Conte deserves the phraseology that we have heard and the posture that we have just witnessed. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your information and your commitment in the coming weeks. I will make a very constructive intervention despite the climate. Mr President, allow me to say one thing: it is not right to manipulate the words of Governor Visco, who spoke in favour of the European stability mechanism. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bressa]] I think that there is no one who can deny the need for a protective umbrella in the event of a banking crisis and give greater financial stability to the eurozone. And this has been done in recent years with initial instruments, put on the field after the financial storm of 2008, and not without limits. I am talking about the framework of the fiscal compact that we have contested and the austerity that we have also opposed in the European Parliament. These initial tools had to be updated and this is the task that is expected. In particular, the common support mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund for banks had to be established, and the ESM had to be included in a reform package that included the introduction of the euro area and banking union budget instrument, including European deposit insurance. These goals are still to be achieved, but certainly - and I have not heard a word from the opposition in this regard - it is important and highly positive to have prevented the powers of the so-called ESM (intergovernmental institution) from being superimposed on the competences of economic policy coordination and debt sustainability assessment, which are the European Commission's own, which acts as a political body; and this has also happened thanks to the work that then President Roberto Gualtieri has done. The other issues must now be resolved: establishing the budget of the euro area, completing the Banking Union, including European deposit insurance. On these very points I am convinced that President Conte and Minister Gualtieri will be able to negotiate firmly, point by point, with our European partners. The completion of the Banking Union is a vital step for Italy, in particular with a European insurance that protects deposits up to 100,000 euros, strongly hindering any attempt to introduce a risk assessment on sovereign securities held by banks; a sort of rating of banks linked to government bonds, absolutely penalising for Italy. Italy does not need umbrellas, neither for its banks, nor for its debt, which must be reduced, but which is - as you said - perfectly sustainable. Italy needs more and more progress on risk sharing, mutualisation of debt at European level, including through the launch of Eurobonds. This is the mandate that the Democratic Party Group entrusts to you, to Minister Gualtieri and to the Government. We must not go backwards: we must go forward in order to protect the savings of Italians. We do not need either Robin Hood, or the super technocrate he wanted and desired in his heart the minister Schäuble, or even the bad policeman who punishes the sinful countries. But we want and must have a stronger system of economic governance, financial stability and finally fiscal policy, because without fiscal policy the European Union and the euro area will remain a dull duck. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u40	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business. This is a debate that must be held with great calm and silence in this House. I notice that now finally, after the League has abandoned the benches, we can talk. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have begun your speech in the House - and we have listened to you in the television service - by talking about mild language and respect for the institutions. I would like to say to you that respect for the institutions is also what your Minister for Economic Affairs should have. Senator Pittella spoke to you and the Minister for Economic Affairs just now, but I do not see the Minister for Economic Affairs next to you in the benches of the Government. It is obviously more familiar with the Euroburocratic circles in Brussels than with the classrooms in the Italian Parliament. The Minister for Economic Affairs himself, in a mild language, with style and respect for the institutions, left the Chamber in the Chamber of Deputies when the President of our party, Giorgia Meloni, took the floor. I understand that you, with your speech, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, with his behaviour, see us as opponents, to the point that in his speech to the House - not here - he actually attached to his head is enough President Giorgia Meloni, almost creating - you do - alarmism on the role of the opposition. In some ways it does us honour, because it clearly recognizes in President Meloni and in the Brothers of Italy the real alternative to your Government, all the more so since we were the only parliamentary group to vote against the documents you have outlined here, and also to the law of European delegation, which contained - in your opinion - precise indications on the reform of the ESM. So we are, yes, the alternative to the Conte-Monti Government - as we should call it today - and President Meloni is the alternative to you, even in the consensus, at least to reading the polls of the last few days. You, in an hour's report and in the hundreds of documents attached to the documents, have been able to do - I say this in a mild and respectful manner of the institutions - the lawyer of yourself - as he is very good at doing - but no longer the lawyer of the citizens. He is the lawyer of himself and of the large financial and banking groups: he has returned to his original profession. And he did it first of all to tell us that the members of the First Count Government knew everything and that you probably acted without their knowledge. She told Salvini - to daughter-in-law - to have her mother-in-law mean it. She, in fact, turned to Salvini, who is no longer part of that government that dropped when she understood in which direction she carried the country, compromising its interests; but in fact she spoke to her mother-in-law, that is to say to Luigi Di Maio, who was at her side of the House, uncomfortable, and does not appear now in the Senate Assembly because she understood that she spoke to her. Basically, you told us you made fun of the members of your government, taking them wherever they didn't want to. This is so true that the Democratic Party, which did not vote on those parliamentary guidance documents, because it was then in opposition, is now happy with what you did on that occasion. How do you explain this contradiction? The Democratic Party, which was then his proud opponent, is now happy with what she did then. And this happens while Minister Tria claims that he did not inform the Council of Ministers or his deputy, because he expected you to do so, and while then Deputy Prime Minister and today Foreign Minister Di Maio says - not a month or six months ago, but this morning - that he does not want to sign a blank bill of exchange on behalf of the Italians: We don't sign in the dark. But, I'm sorry, did you inform Minister Di Maio - not six months ago, but this morning - that everything was clear? Why else should he declare "We don't sign in the dark"? Minister Di Maio is still minister of his government: I remind the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars. That's his behavior with the government. Mind your own business, if you like. Count I and Count II: made fun of the first partners. I would like to say to Zingaretti, to Hope and, above all, to Matteo Renzi, given the behaviour of the President of the Council with respect to the previous partners of Government, not to be serene, because what one has done once does a second time. But I also address you, President Conte: do not be serene either because, after consuming the majority League-5 Stars and now 5 Stars-Democratic Party, there is no third. We will never vote for it and, therefore, do not look at it with interest. After he's made fun of one another and then the other, we're never gonna be with her. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You, however, certified that you mocked the members of the government, taking them on a different path - and this concerns them - unfortunately you also certified that you mocked Parliament, even though you delivered a thousand documents. I would remind you of the commitment of the majority resolution adopted by Parliament in June: The Houses will be informed of the proposed amendments to the ESM Treaty, drawn up at European level, in order to enable Parliament to express its views by means of an act of direction. That's where the donkey falls, and that's where your government contractors accuse you of not being able to read the papers. Why does the donkey fall? It falls because you had to allow Parliament to speak with an act of direction. And when did you allow it if there was never a real debate in Parliament and you come here today? Did he say, "in a timely manner"? From June 14th to today it has been six months. And above all not spontaneously, because it was pulled here for the jacket repeatedly, externally and internally. So, in a way that was not timely and not spontaneous, he came after six months. When will Parliament be able to express itself in an act of direction if the notes from the Eurogroup just now tell us that everything has been decided in June and can only be ratified, and that it is better to do so soon? You have in fact escaped Parliament's address. It is at this point that we take it in fault and tell you that, together with your Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, and be respectful of Parliament. I expect the shorthand report, which has not yet been published, to faithfully report the words of the Minister of Economic Affairs to the Finance Committee last week, when - ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party - he literally insulted me - he could no longer answer him because I did not have the floor - as nobody in this Parliament has done. And then we will see the President of the House what he will say about it. The Minister for Economic Affairs said clearly, and repeated this, in relation to our objections that: "If you ask if it is possible to reopen the negotiations, I would say that I do not think that the text is closed." That is what the Eurogroup says today. If the text is closed, Mr President-in-Office, then when can Parliament give it its address? Never. You can only conclude by accepting or rejecting. You, therefore, have made the commitment you made in Parliament in the resolution you adopted. But let us go to the merits - and I shall start to conclude, having a few more minutes for the overtaking that has been granted to everyone - of the matter. You still tell us something that is not true: you tell us that there is a package that has three pillars that we close together. No, because a pillar has already been built and can no longer be changed; the European agencies are clearly telling us this today. So, if a pillar is already closed - and, in our view, badly - what contractual power do we have over the other two pillars in fact being in a situation of enormous difficulty? Within the other two pillars, important things are decided for our country, such as in this pillar with regard to basically both the European budget and the guarantee of bank deposits that are still missing in the Banking Union. There has never been a negotiation - and you are a very experienced internationalist attorney of these events - in which a pillar is closed and the other two are discussed, when we all know - basically the European informations tell us - that they will be discussed over the next year. In this sense you have compromised the position of Italy and, therefore, the national interest, because you have endorsed, without Parliament's approval, the first pillar, in the presence, among other things, of a majority which has clearly stated that it is going another way. And you did this because you already thought of the new majority with Zingaretti and Monti, and that is so true that you launched that, in the ignavia and the unawares of the majority and the government of that time, to prepare the current one, that is a new government that radically changes the expression of Parliament last June. Have the courage, you of the 5 Stars, to make an address document that, together with Monti, Bonino and the Democratic Party, radically changes what you have told your voters, what you have repeatedly said in this House and written in the documents you have approved over the various months. Of course, you can always change your mind; you change your mind, we don't; they change their mind, we don't. That is why we believe that the alarm launched by us, Governor Visco, Commissioner Cottarelli this morning, by the President of ABI Patuelli again this morning, and a year ago - but on the merits - also by the former director of public debt to the Cannata Treasury; alarms that woke up the sleeping beauty in the woods, that is the then Deputy Prime Minister Di Maio, today Foreign Minister, who suddenly rose but who did not have the courage to come here. In conclusion, President Conte, you told the House and also here that our country will not need to resort to the Treaty that - we all know - is no longer a safe state, but a bank, since it is now necessary to save the German banks at the expense of Italian savers; you said this because our debt is sustainable. Does it explain to us why the financial law increases the deficit and the debt? Does he explain to us why with his first government, President Conte, the Italian deficit and debt have increased? Does it explain to us why the economic manoeuvre does not include, not even in the third year, a reduction in the debt? I would also ask you to explain to us why the European Commission has challenged this very thing. You yourselves are increasing the debt, through a maneuver half in deficit and half with improbable revenues, in order to put the country under the conditions - you yes - of having to resort to that instrument that we would no longer be able to resort because the strict rules that are imposed prevent Italy, with the high debt that you have created and that you are increasing every day, to then be able to take advantage of the fund, which has gone from bottom saves States to the bottom of servitude of the States. It is pointless to hide that the Treaty shifts the decision-making centre of gravity from a political body, i.e. from the Commission, to the management of the ESM, which is in the hands of the most ferocious German and French bankers. And this is a significant and inescapable element. In doing so you have made our country weaker in the subsequent debate on reform, as well as on the missing pillar of the Banking Union and the European budget. That is why, President Conte, we say to you that you have certainly affected in substance, and not only in form, the national interest, of which we will be proud defenders today and tomorrow, as we did yesterday, without ever changing our position, unlike other groups - not only the Movimento 5 Stars, but also the Democratic Party - in the ballet between Government and the majority we are witnessing in this legislature. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School "Alessandro Antonelli" in the province of Novara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u44	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u45	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the assumption that Forza Italia is obviously in favour of Italy's membership of the European Union and the use of the euro. And I say that because this debate then risks confusing ideas. Having made this promise, I would also like to remind you that our political side had denounced earlier the limitations of certain European mechanisms. Then what happened happened, we paid a high price, but we had said the right things: Silvio Berlusconi had told them in 2011 to European leaders, even if the mechanisms, rules and acronyms were others. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Today I too went to re-read the resolutions: the majority resolutions adopted in June clearly state that the Chambers had to come back to debate and comment on the negotiations on the ESM: it is written in paragraphs 11 and 13, as other Members have also said. So, in fact, the government has escaped a fulfillment to which it had committed itself, given the majority vote on the resolution in the House. Then perhaps you, Mr Conte, remained President of the Council, but, by changing the majority, you were somewhat confused: you were not given all the right cards when Count II was born, but there was an act of respect for Parliament. That's the thing. Today you did not have time to be brief - said an ancient Latin rector - flooding us with speeches, clarifications, quotations, waving even a package of cards. However, politically, you have escaped a fulfillment, however, you want to judge Europe and certain mechanisms. Therefore, for us the point is political; the resolutions are here, they are in parliamentary acts; therefore, we are not convinced. Since the matter has been dealt with in a rough manner, then I say to you and the Minister for Economic Affairs, who perhaps knows more about the issues than you do, having chaired an important committee in Brussels, to pay attention to the weighting mechanisms. I don't have time to explain them, nor am I teaching the subject. Attention to the Basel Accords: there is not only the European Union, but there are agreements concerning banks. There is not only the European Union in Basel: there is the world. There are chain consequences. I hope, therefore, that the Government - whatever it is, this or others - will protect the interest of our country. We believe that today - as yesterday - there is a deficit of democracy in the European mechanisms. There is no time here to discuss the ESM, this and that. Read the conclusion of today's article by Fubini on the "Corriere della Sera" - as you can see, I do not mention dangerous revolutionaries - in which that of the mechanisms, of the decision-makers, the Commission and Parliament, is an issue that we have raised, and that Antonio Tajani has placed twice in the chair of the European Parliament. You will go to the meetings on December 4th and 12th: the eternal question of who decides I think must be re-proposed and relaunched and Forza Italia I have always supported it. Apart from the European Union's democratic deficit, there is a government reputation deficit: you had to abolish poverty; you abolished our country's reputation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's the truth. The current government was born during that summer - we also lived it on these benches - because we had to reconnect with Europe. Isn't that right? That was the subject. Let's talk about the previous government, which then presided over you, President Conte. Therefore, Europe was not credible before and then, changing a piece of majority, it became so. It seems to me that we have also had an altimetric trend in the spread today, and this debate as well. We will return to debate and vote - I believe - before 12 and 13 December; you will come on 11 - as you have already said - and, therefore, today it is a kind of prologue, a preview. But what is the Italian reputation in European contexts? It's a low reputation. You've abolished your reputation. I'm gonna tell you something up-to-date, President Conte, and you're gonna wonder what that has to do with it. It is 5:50 p.m. on Monday and we are in the Senate; tomorrow the budget maneuver should have arrived in the Chamber. So ask the Members of the Budget Committee for information: they do not yet know what will happen in 15 minutes of the Italian Republic's budget, the one that has to regulate the deficit, GDP and debt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You don't know what's going on. Therefore, you are not credible, and not because in the Treaty, paragraph 8 of page 150, it says who knows what. You're not because you can't govern this country's economy this afternoon. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is the reality. You have put - and you have denied - only taxes: taxes on water, on sugar, on plastic. Then, speaking of strong powers, to the companies of the network, of the web, you tickled: do you want to put the cuffs? Put them in Amazon's Bezos. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You've solved everything! You said that everything is resolved with Europe. I remind you that you have already solved everything with Ilva - who knows how it ends - with Whirlpool in Naples, which is closing. You solved everything with Alitalia: there is not even the plan anymore. Patuanelli went to say that the consortium is no longer there. On Taranto he went there to say, with courage - I give him notice - that you have no idea; and then Cricket arrived to help Di Maio and said: do not break us... the attributes. But do you think this is how you solve things, with a comedian who thinks with the swear words of closing the political crises that open up here? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'll finish. The issue is not that of Europe. Renzi said: "At the PD I say: no elections or we give the Colle to the League or to the center-right." President Conte, you are only in office so that the elections that the government would give to the center-right, thanks to the will of the Italians, do not take place. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's the only truth and that's what we want to say to your face, quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u46	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u47	Gasparri (FI-BP). Ours is a political judgment condemning your Government that we do not consider fit to guarantee Italy's interests on the delicate European tables. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lorefice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have seen that the debate on the European Stability Mechanism has heated the minds of this branch of Parliament as well. It is fully part of the debate on how to change and where Europe wants to go, after years of crisis which, in fact, make the old Continent, today, the economic ill of the world. The Movimento 5 Stars, first from the opposition benches and then to the Government, has always fought for a concrete change of pace in Europe, which can really put the original objectives of the European project, which I would like to list, also to define a perimeter. The original goals were made of solidarity, sharing, growth and overcoming differences. Within this perimeter, therefore, it is necessary to evaluate a reformist plant that concerns the ESM, also called a fund that saves States, but which alone cannot and must not exhaust all the other reforms, which serve to change Europe. I am referring - as you yourself have rightly pointed out in your speech - to the need for a eurozone budget, to the Banking Union and to the construction of a single insurance on bank deposits, the so-called EDIS. This is the so-called package logic, which must be pursued in its entirety, given that the same objectives have also been mentioned by President von der Leyen, in his letter of presentation last summer, as one of his policy objectives in the European Parliament. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we take note of your explanations and welcome the effort you have made to explain to all of us the state of affairs, even today, in terms of such a complex - I repeat - and delicate - reform. At the same time it is clear that we reject to the sender the laughable accusations and, in particular, that of betrayal: a ridiculous accusation [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , motivated by a political force, which was and is fully aware of the same reform. I ask myself some questions: how do you get involved in the whole trial and then, from today to tomorrow, wake up to say: I wasn't there or, if I was there, I was asleep? Maybe in the July break, between a mojito and a macarena, someone got distracted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And he's awake now. The captain was not there: evidently he sailed to other routes and had also mistaken ship. Let us remember that, when the document in English arrived on 9 August, among the parliamentary acts, he thought well to create a beautiful crisis of government and to send the great work done to cataclysm. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With this in mind, however, it is clear that we need further scope for reflection to ensure that the ESM, in a logic of package and overall reforms of the European economic framework, truly meets the objectives of helping States. So let us be careful about what we are doing and let us be sure that you are very careful, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. However, there are still concerns about this. It is true that automatic debt restructuring does not appear in the text we are debating today, but let us be careful: we have a duty to rule out in a strict manner that can in any way come back, perhaps from some window. Italy in fact ends up in that category of high-debt countries, which can obtain funds through the most winding road, made up of invasive assessments on the sustainability of its debt, in which it acquires power the techno-burocratic structure of the ESM. Now Italy does not need to ask for financial aid and I add: thankfully. It has a high public debt, but it is sustainable, as has happened historically. And, above all, if public debt and private debt were consolidated, Italy would be in much better conditions than those of many other partners, who are always ready to shake the banner of austerity. Therefore, let us send back to the sender the criticisms of those who shake such banner. We have a solid state thanks to the credits of the many Italian savers. Precisely for this reason our country, moreover third contributor of the ESM - let us also remember it in the game of budgets because, with 17.5%, we are the third contributor of the ESM - cannot afford to be treated as a child of a minor God, nor to remain with the sword of Damocles of a help that hangs on his head, conditioning the operation of the Country even without an effective request for help. The ESM may also be a valid instrument, but it can only be so after all the appropriate and rigorous checks and only after the resulting improvements. In addition, the mechanism may be useful, but only if it is part of a comprehensive reform process involving the final launch of a eurozone budget and joint deposit insurance. The central role of Parliament, which will have to exercise all the prerogatives of the case, including that of giving indications on the eve of the European Council meeting on 12 and 13 December, in which Italy will have to make its voice heard with force. The Movimento 5 Stars wants a Europe of solidarity, cohesive and shared. The ESM, with the necessary improvements, can and must be a step to deal with that change that the old Continent can no longer afford to postpone. President. - We await you soon for the next resolution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u50	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u51	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the precise way in which he has reconstructed all the passages which - as you know better than I do - are certainly not simple but complex. At first there could be - and there were - elements that could be very negative for our country, but the indication, that it was also ours - as reported on our resolution of June 19, when we were not in the majority - is being carefully carried forward. Frankly - I also say this to the President of the Senate - I always find it incredible that on such a delicate issue, and on which serious words have been uttered and loud accusations and threats have been made, that President Conte, rebuilding all the passages, has clearly denied, we are here to do the usual scenery and then leave with all the journalists to follow. And I also find it incredible that on such a delicate passage, in reality, you do not have the courage to stay. If the country's interest is at stake, we stay here and discuss the matter, because perhaps each of us can make a contribution by majority and opposition. And at the time, we too, who were out of the majority, had tried to give directions in the interest of the country. What is the country's interest? I say this in a very clear way, with no inflections as far as we are concerned. As we have also said at the time of the government's inauguration and in recent months, we believe that the European Union needs to self-form, to change. We cannot say that only in the context of the programme statements. Europe needs to change. We have thought - and we must continue to work on this with regard to our country and we are not the only ones in Europe - that we must overcome the fiscal compact season and the rigidity of the Stability Pact. So when I talk about the context, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I mean that the whole so-called package must move in the direction of overcoming that method which has certainly not brought Europe very well. So, well if we go towards the stabilisation, even financial, of the States, but the mechanisms cannot reproduce in a surreptitious way those of the fiscal compact. We are also concerned about another matter. Today, the spokesman for the President of the European Commission, in some way, has denied the news that we want to separate green investment from the deficit-GDP calculation, but that is certainly not enough to comfort us. We say that there are problems: on the ESM, in particular on Articles 12 and 13. It is true, in fact, that restructuring is not automatic and that this automation has been foiled, but it is also true that the problem is the criteria for debt sustainability. That's the point for us. That is why we must prevent it from coming back out of the window as much as we want to get out of the door, which are the heavy limits of the fiscal compact. What are we gonna do? We'll have another discussion. I hope that we will come to this, because a resolution will be adopted on 11 December. The aim is to continue to treat to avoid and overcome those concerns, which are not ours, but of many: I am thinking of Articles 12 and 13 of the ESM. Therefore, to deal with a package logic, as you said, because, as far as we are concerned, everything must be in balance: the ESM, the reform of the ESM, the issue of the Banking Union and, above all, the issue of the budget. In the logic of the package, we must incorporate those elements of flexibility, which are not generic but of overcoming the logics that have not so far brought Europe well. In order to relaunch it, we must all make this effort. Parliament will decide. Parliament will give its views in the resolution and we are sure, as you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Government, you and Minister Gualtieri will be able to put in place all the energy needed to improve that Treaty, to amend it and to take it seriously, with a view to coordinated action with the other instruments, which are fundamental to the final reform of the European Union. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u53	Mr President, I would like to address President Conte to thank him for the very comprehensive picture he has given us. A picture anchored to the truth of the facts, totally in line with what was outlined by Minister Gualtieri in the four hours of last Wednesday's hearing and which, moreover, has nothing new for those who have read the Treaty and studied the notations of the Department of Studies of the Senate of the Republic. Sometimes, in fact, studying before talking is not a bad thing. Despite this, we have read everything in the newspapers and, on the other media, we have seen everything, so much so that we can ask ourselves whether the debate today should perhaps deny the enormous amount of nonsense that has been said. Maybe rhetorical question: out of ignorance or bad faith? We should be here today to talk about the future, Mr President. How to influence the processes taking shape on the horizon of the new Commission. Instead, we are forced to look to the past to reason on the false information given to public opinion; to create an apocalyptic climate of terror on a part of those whom that treaty first discussed and after accepted in June this year. So when Senator Salvini used to refer to someone who doesn't tell it right, maybe in these words a small answer we have to and we can find it. So let's also use this debate to explain some things that have been advertised. It has been said that the ESM is a private body: it has been mentioned by you and has been mentioned by Senator Bonino. But it is not enough to say that it is intergovernmental. It is wise to say that Italy is the third country in terms of the number of capital shares, having subscribed 125.3 billion, of which 14.3 million were paid, corresponding to 17.7 percent of the capital. Someone might say: Numbers. No, it is something more, because with this percentage Italy has veto power, because urgent decisions are taken by qualified majority of 85%. The changes were very limited, a bit to formalise what had happened in practice, a bit because the European Council met in December 2018. Nobody mentioned it here, but do you remember what the climate was towards Italy in December 2018, when the first manoeuvre, which included 20 billion expenditure, had led the Commission to react, even assuming the opening of an infringement procedure, not on the deficit, which is easily manageable, but on the debt? So, if the conditions were those, the result is almost a miracle, because from that moment on we started the path that allowed the ESM to provide a support device - the so-called backstop, to which you referred - to the Single Resolution Fund. Above all, the ESM is intended to support resolution with reference not only to the public finances of the Member States, but also to their banking and financial institutions, integrating into the Single Resolution Mechanism of the Banking Union. It is, therefore, a success for Italy. In addition, there is the fact that potential crises are not screwed into a spiral where banking problems affect public finance and vice versa, as happened with the second sovereign debt crisis. It is therefore good for Europe. Compared to the two credit lines that the ESM can provide - the precautionary and the reinforced one - I do not refer to the hoax on the preventive restructuring of public debt as automatism. It's all the same. I'll tell you the news. All I'm saying is that the countries that wanted it were defeated, first of all the Netherlands and then Germany and then the two Baltic countries. At this point, the first political consideration arises as to why we should talk about the future. In 2012 I was already in these classrooms and had the honour to be the rapporteur of the survey on the country system and Europe. One of the problems that emerged was that in Italy there was no follow-up to the issues in the ascending phase, i.e. the potentialities contained in the Treaty of Lisbon, which were central to national parliaments, were not taken into account. That is why we should have had the debate today by looking at and throwing our hearts past the obstacle, talking about much more. I do not say that the ESM can be exciting, but it certainly does not do a damage to Italy, as someone has said, in fact, helps it and can help all banks in difficulty, that - let me say - are not German ones, because there the State can intervene self-financing itself on the market at negative rates, thanks to a low public debt (unlike what happens in Italy, that could not do the same). I'll add something else. We certainly go ahead with the ESM, but we cannot stop at the ESM alone. We must also add the complete package of the Banking Union and the budget of the eurozone to establish the prodromes of a common fiscal policy, which is the real challenge for Italy, with dumping within us; a European system of guaranteeing bank debts that, together with it, drags other things, including the rules on insolvency (I am sorry not present the Minister of Economy and Finance, but you, President Conte, are much more titled), cross-border banking integration, the treatment of banks' exposure to sovereign debt, with the creation of a public obligation and a secure eurozone (the asset to which you referred). I very much appreciate the intervention of Minister Gualtieri when, in view of the openness that Scholz had given, a quick compromise, but against the condition that there was a decrease in the exposure of banks... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u54	Senator Marino, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u55	MARINO (IV-PSI). He argued that a decrease would lead to the weighting of sovereign debt. This thing wasn't accepted. We are on the right track, but that is not what we should have talked about today. I just hope that we realize that we are being watched carefully: shooting instrumentally on the ESM harms Europe and Italy, the markets will wonder why Italy does not want to sign a treaty that protects everyone and strengthens the stability of the system. I also think it is in the interest of the debtor country to avoid suspicions about debt sustainability. You have to be careful about the signals you give and, even without having to be statesmen, you can think of something more than a few likes or polls in the hope of arriving at elections that, if they were ever won, would lead to rule over a pile of rubble. Finally, I would like to conclude by quoting today's statement by David Sassoli, President of the European Parliament, when he says that the controversy over the reform of the ESM is only damaging the credibility of Italy on the markets and in the European Union. However, to understand this simple statement, it is necessary to have and appreciate one's own credibility and from what I have heard and read these days, this is not a characteristic of the spouts [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senators Collina and Pittella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u57	Mr President, it is clear that Europe has its own faults and it is equally clear that the faults of a technocracy-oriented Europe stem from those of a policy that is prone to irresponsibility. I believe there is no doubt that the two Vice-Presidents of the Council of the previous First Count Government were actually properly informed; I believe there is no doubt that the European Stability Mechanism is in the interests of the States, but it is equally true that as it is reformed it exposes us more than it did before to risks. The intergovernmental method does not benefit us: it is clear that we have every interest in applying the Community method. It is true that the worst risk has been avoided, the one that automatically triggered a debt restructuring procedure, and it is true that even if Italy could possibly ask for such an intervention it would put investors on the run. The problem is that, unlike what has been said, Parliament has not been involved in this debate and it is not an exceptionality, but a method. This is what Jean Monnet said in the 1950s: the process of building Europe must take place regardless of public opinion and even the lack of public opinion, and this is what has happened systematically every time a delicate decision has been taken: it has happened with the bail in, as we all remember. Parliament probably did not realize what it was voting on, it did not realize the devastating effects of that rule as European Commissioner Vestager, then denied by the European institutions themselves, had interpreted it; four of our banks and their accountants, bondholders and shareholders have made their accounts. It also happened before with the fiscal compact of 2012. I remember a mortifying debate for politics: four-minute contingency times in the Group, no political leader dared speak in this House on something of obvious political seriousness and significance for what many today call national sovereignty (which is important and is pleased that it has been recently discovered). Unfortunately, no newspaper gave the news on the front page and I say so as a former journalist. The blame is therefore many, but above all politics, and I do not think that taking it upon Europe will help to solve the problem. It is politics that must have the courage of its own choices and explain them to what some people call the people today. The method set out by Jean Monnet worked to achieve results, but only as long as things went well; in the first wind of crisis that method does not work because if people are not involved they will never create a feeling of common European identity, which can only allow the dream of the elites of a united Europe not to become the nightmare of the masses of a mortifying and aggressive Europe with respect to the interests of the individual. Therefore, Mr. President of the Count Council, my invitation is to speak the language of truth, not only with respect to the internal diatribes of your Government between you and the vice-president of the Di Maio Council, which obviously put the country in trouble in the eyes of the world; not only with regard to the political skirmishes between your former vice-president of the Council Matteo Salvini, who today has every interest in reciting another script. Try to stick to the facts. Try to explain to this House, to Parliament and, through it, to the country as it is, because otherwise I believe that it will only fall on you - and therefore on us - the consequence of this silence, of this systematic mystification. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is a rather complicated day. Mr President, I apologise for my esteem and respect for you personally and as a parliamentary group, but you also know how much we in the Democratic Party care about respect for the institutions and, specifically, for the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, it is not possible for certain political forces to act voluntarily, in a scientific way, to offend the institution which you represent and which must necessarily defend, and for situations such as today to be determined. You, Mr President, cannot allow people in this House to leave one side of the insults against the President-in-Office of the Council and on the other side of the threats to colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You just can't afford it. We have the duty and the right to confront ourselves even with very distant positions, as is the case today, but we need to do so in absolute compliance with the rules. You, these rules must guarantee us, including that on the timing and the ways of putting yourself because this is an attitude that, in particular on the part of Senator Salvini, goes forward not only when he is in opposition, but since he was in government and played the role of Vice President of the Council. Now we come to the topic of information. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have been very timely in the reconstruction of the passages and political involvement with regard to such an important issue as the reform of the European Stability Mechanism. But you didn't understand one thing. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government and colleagues, allow me, but Senator Salvini, in fact, did not know at all what he was talking about. He didn't know that at the time when this trial took place, and perhaps he doesn't even know it today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] His goal was not to go into this matter. His goal was different: it was to do what he has been doing with method for weeks and months, that is to delegitimize the institutions and, more, our country within the European context, but also within the country itself, trying to make it appear truths that are not such and trying to make appearances that are not such. He had the courage to try to throw our country in the abyss of an economic crisis and the increase of VAT with an unholy attitude towards our national community. In the same way, today this attempt is repeated with the force that he and his propaganda machines are able to put in place by mobilizing newspapers, public opinion, all social media and making what is not appear. When you say the things that have been said these days and you have a parliamentary debate like what you have done today, you have, from the point of view of an analytical person like me who has a heart for the future of his country, the feeling that there is certainly someone in this parliamentary Chamber, a political force or a leader, who is working against our country, with insistence, determination and - I also say - violently, albeit only verbally. This is Senator Salvini. If need be, it has been demonstrated once again today. This is certainly not the way in which we work in the interests of the national community. I believe - I say this to Senator Salvini's colleagues, hoping that they will report it to him, because he obviously did not have time to follow the parliamentary debate - there are occasions in a country, regardless of whether you are in opposition or in the majority, in which you should all work to help our Government, our country, guarantee the future of the national community and take care of its interests. This is one of those occasions, among other things on a process of modifying an agreement that has a duration that goes beyond the existence of a government and a majority. An opportunity to show a sense of responsibility and that, beyond the mere electoral interest, in politics can count the heart, the love for your country, the consideration of politics with the capital "P." Today Senator Salvini, besides being ignorant in the matter he has treated and telling lies [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group]] He has shown us that he is determined to offend the institutions and has demonstrated to the whole country that he works against Italy, against our national community. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you, the Minister and the Government are all confident that this complex operation, which must guarantee the future of our country, give stability, continue the virtuous path of recovery and credibility, continue on the results of lowering the spread and saving for Italians. All this to allow us to make a budget law that makes sense and gives a perspective to our country [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; to you our mandate and our trust. We know you're working in the interests of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank you for wanting, with this information, to protect the role of Parliament. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the diligence with which he mentioned me in his two photocopiers. I'll talk with my arm, a little 'cause I can afford it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , having nothing else to bring in this debate that the memories a little 'love, but sincere, of the experience in which I found myself assisting her in her action of government, and a little 'also because, speaking by arm, you avoid accidents in such a slippery ground. For example, I inform you - but you, who are a man of the world, will not need it - that, as you spoke, two economic advisors from Macron, Shahin Vallée and Jean Pisani-Ferry (one from the old and one from the present) spoke against the ESM. So it ends up that of this MES, which you so strenuously defend, will remain the last defender, the last Japanese behind an objectively empty MES. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And no wonder you're here to defend this MES, because there's something that shares this tragic destiny of the MES with yours: it's the tragic destiny of being things that, when a crisis comes, then they don't serve. That is the fundamental point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That she doesn't serve us we are seeing him here and the desert (felix desert) testifies to him in the benches of the majority. MIRABELLI (PD). You've all been out so far, but what are you talking about? BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). That the ESM doesn't serve attests to it banally - I don't want to dread it with technical details - that, when there is a crisis, the ESM will not serve. There will be a need for the ECB, which will act as a backstop; it will do so and so it is useless now to dwell on the details (not the tedium). Yes, I applauded what President Conte said, because I believed, as many colleagues here believed, the possibility of a change. The change would simply have been a serious and authoritative intercourse with Europe; this intercourse, in order to be serious and authoritative, should have been involved. I cannot applaud what President Conte has done and I regret that our fairness in supporting it, even by accepting to represent our positions in a confidential way, which were - as you know, even if you pretend not to know - dissent towards this reform, is now being used towards us to discredit us and to say that we were all in agreement. President Conte, you should choose your opponents better (it is the dowry of the great strategist) or at least your collaborators (which is the dowry of any manager). Let's talk about your collaborators and friends. President Visco raised the alarm. Nice gratitude for those who came here to defend the gold of the Bank of Italy: obviously something did not work. The closure of the agreement was announced by the current Minister for Economic Affairs, demonstrating that it was not true that you respected the mandate not to take definitive decisions (I remember those words well, because it was I, you and Minister Fraccaro who found them, in your study at Palazzo Chigi). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That you betrayed that warrant, Minister Gualtieri told us. It is not high treason; when I studied law, I was taught that this case concerns only the Head of State. But this has gone as wrong as it should have gone, and it is also confirmed by sources from the Eurogroup, which say that the agreement is concluded. But is the deal concluded or not? I am addressing all Italians here: but how can we accept to be in a system, within which it is not possible to understand when such an important agreement for our lives is actually concluded or not? I'm sorry I'm hot, I'm gonna calm down right now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That there has been no proper discussion in the Council of Ministers, Tria said; that there has been all this sharing on its part denies a trivial fact: from December to July, while this affair was taking place, you have jealously kept to yourself the competences of European affairs, releasing them only at the conclusion-not conclusion of the agreement. Mr Ferrari (PD). You're out of time, Mr. President. We're four minutes away. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I confess one thing: I too have been unfaithful to you, because I have not brought you back something. You remember, for example, when, at the meeting on 14 May that you mentioned, you said, at the impulse of Minister Fraccaro... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll finish. At the impulse of Minister Fraccaro, you gave me and Fraccaro the task of going to the Treasury Director to see the text. I went there, then, on May 30th. Do you know what the Treasury Director did? He told me that, since that was a text discussed at the Eurogroup, he couldn't let me see it, he opposed the secret. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Then I, instead of thinking straight and opposing paragraph 7 of Article 4 of Law No 234 of 2012, which says that in the information to Parliament the secret is not worth, I smiled and said that in my ideal world he would be a minister, so he would... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Allow me to conclude. So I wouldn't need to check my political line with you and you would be politically responsible. There is no political responsibility here. You couldn't have known that. But surely you cannot fail to know when I, Garavaglia, Castelli and a quidam de populo that I don't mention we were locked in a room at Palazzo Chigi, the day before the Eurogroup, to see a text with square brackets still unsolved, with a stunned Head of Cabinet degraded at the level of janitor of kindergarten, who had to check that we didn't take notes, that we didn't photograph and that we didn't communicate with the outside. This is the sharing you've had with us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Ferrari (PD). We've been out of time for three minutes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, Senator Bagnai. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Since the text did not want to share it, I ask you, with great serenity, since you have bigger problems than the Lega Group (you now have "Le hyenas" as a problem), why not tell us something about your conflict of interest, which is now being dealt with "Le hyenas"? That would be another subject on which I would be interested to know your opinion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Now let's keep the time, too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Forza Italia has been calling for you, Mr Conte, to come to the Senate to make communications on the issue of the European Stability Mechanism. Today, however, we are only here for information, so there will be no vote. We believe that the Parliament of a democratic country has not only the right, but also the duty to express itself on an issue that is certainly not ordinary administration, but involves the future of Italy and of every Italian. Our European partners, the financial markets, need to know the positions of the Italian Government. Uncertainty weakens us, both with regard to international partners and to markets. Our political weight goes down, the interest rates we have to pay go up. With regard to uncertainties, the fact that today, 2 December, now in the evening, we still do not know when the first of the - certainly - three passages of the draft budget law will begin to vote in the Commission is not something that is in the government's favour. And today the Stock Exchange has lost 2% and we believe that some connection is there. Maybe tomorrow the Stock Exchange regains - we always cheer for Italy for which we hope things will go the best way - but the overall picture is certainly not positive. With all due respect, your two speeches today do not give any certainty, because we do not know, for example, who you are talking about. Are you talking about the government of which Minister Roberto Gualtieri is a member, for which the new rules of the ESM are unchangeable and must be voted as they are? Or for that of the other minister, Luigi Di Maio, who said he did not want to bend to some Euroburocrat rather than protect the interests of Italians? What credibility can we have on the negotiating tables and on the financial markets with a government body in this situation? We know that the ESM was also born on the initiative of the Berlusconi government, but one thing is how it was born, and another thing is how it is evolving. It's worked over the years. The backstop for example we asked for, and in fact it is one of the positive things; there are other things that worry us instead. The change in the ESM stems from the fear of many European countries that the crisis in one country will affect all others. It had happened with Greece, whose economy is just over a tenth of the Italian one, and today's fears are mainly focused on Italy because, apart from Greece, it is the country with the highest public debt and - which could be easily remedied - is what, when it grows, it does it less than others and, when it decreases, it decreases more than others. This makes us weak at European and international level. If we did not have this problem, we could also look with a certain detachment at any changes introduced into this mechanism. Our main interlocutor, rather than the European partners and the ESM rules, is the financial markets. It is not a choice, this one, or a preference, because when every week Italy has to place 6 billion government bonds of public debt in order to be able to pay the salaries, the suppliers and the pensions, you have to be careful who - hopefully - will also buy our securities next week. We can't do anything different. Instead, we have choices that we can have a government that has clear ideas on an important issue, on this and on all other economic choices, such as the budget law that we should discuss. In any case, the government can choose which type of economic policy to pursue: it could introduce policies that make the economy grow, that attract investment and that create job opportunities. If the economy grows, it improves the debt-to-GDP ratio, it can lower the tax burden and our creditors are reassured. The opposite is achieved by welfare policies. On the other hand, we see choices that go in the wrong direction: welfare policies and billions wasted on the income of citizenship that encourages non-activity and undeclared work; the plastic tax that affects mainly Italian companies, penalized compared to those of other European countries, not to mention those of China or other non-European countries; the policy of taxes and handcuffs; the infinite processes with the abolition of prescription, as if not enough the current inefficiencies of justice, make the investors escape [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and make money go abroad. And the consequences of this are borne by all citizens in terms of employment and well-being. We ask you, President Conte, to take a clear position, on behalf of the Government fully supported; otherwise, if you are not able, you must make different choices. It may be that, in order to achieve this, it endangers the survival of the government. But the alternative is to put at risk the savings and well-being of Italians, and Forza Italia, as always, will make any effort to prevent this happening. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u63	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u64	President Conte, you were right to dwell in the first part of your speech on the seriousness and intolerableness of the accusations that have been brought against you. He recalled the accusation of betrayal that has been made to her, however, with constitutional imprecision, since there has been talk of high treason. There has also been talk of perjury: in short, these are serious accusations. What I appreciate most is the fact that your defense did not concern your person, who obviously does not need to defend himself, but the institutional function that you carry out and the office that you hold because that is to protect everyone. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Several shows and events took place, until the suspension of the session. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, it is really bad to see a schoolgirl - who was watching our work from the stands and before whom we stood up, as we do every time in the presence of students - called up by the professor and invited out at the time when there was a coffin in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] I think that this is one of the lowest points that an institution can live on compared to those who have to collect a certain message. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Might as well not get up and applaud when there are schoolchildren in the gallery. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, when I try to speak to those outside this House too, I note that everything we say about the European Stability Mechanism or the State-saving Fund is not perceived with the same authenticity as we are dealing with it. The inspiration for this was to say that countries in difficulty must be helped to ensure the economic stability of the eurozone. However, I would like to add - and in this there is a certain colloquiality and a certain tendency towards simplisticism - that, if it is a fund that saves States, it cannot be a crush on States, and that is the fundamental point on which everyone outside this House is questioning. If I go to ask for money in the bank, I need that money, but we also need to make sure that the conditions that the bank places for debt repayment are sustainable, because otherwise I will have two problems: that of having asked for money and that of having to repay it. It is a simple mechanism that I have represented, but in the end this is the concern and with regard to this it is undeniable that a "narration" has been created, which instead accentuates the effects to a great extent. We say very simply that the 5 Star Movement has always been for a Europe of solidarity: our first point is that of solidarity between States. On the basis of this mechanism, there can be no inequality, no differentiation, always in the interests of this single objective. That is really our concern. The fact that there has been no information and that this solution and this package have come into the shadows is not at all true, and the League knows it too: we are talking about a political force - I have to read the data, because there are so many - which expressed 6 Ministers, 3 Vice Ministers, 15 Undersecretaries, a Vice President of the Council, a Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, among other things a very close friend of Draghi. It is therefore clear, Mr President, that the matter was well known. In the resolution, however - perhaps Senator Romeo didn't quote him devoutly because, at the time of the first Count Government, there was the theme of our subscription and of the League - there were objectives that had been well set on a scenario that had been acquired and on which we reasoned. That was the mandate of this branch of Parliament in relation to the famous logic of the Banking Union package and, therefore, the guarantee of deposits and the European budget, which must offset the specific issue of the ESM. Compared to this, another narrative has been grafted, so there has been talk of signature, of signature in the shadows, but nothing has been signed. You came back here, President Conte, where you explained all the details of the affair. We now tell you that for the next European Council on 12 December we want to give the same directives, those that a sovereign Parliament, in a democracy based on the centrality of Parliament, has the right to communicate to its President. We'll see what happens, but we'll be the creators of what we want it to be. There is so much talk about the future; Senator Salvini always talks about the future of our children, but he never wonders if the future he has in store for his children is what they want, because this is also an important aspect. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Nor is it useful to seek - I address the friends of the League, as they like to say - to bring into play past experiences alone and when instrumentally agree and not assume the responsibilities and here, President Conte, I come to your speech on responsibility. Indeed, we have fears; fears that have always been in the veins of our Movement: as I said, of a rescue-state that does not save; of the fact that debt management has passed from the Commission, which was a political body, to the technocrats, if we can say so, of the ESM (which does not comfort us); of the fact that we can claim money and prelude to a debt restructuring (this, even if not automatic, is a risk). Well, Mr President, put us away from these risks, but to the extent and in the ways that we institutionally are able to communicate them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this case, Mr President, we will have a bit of what you called, in a beautiful letter of 20 June in Brussels, a new European Constitution. This is a very beautiful message that we can and will be able to maintain; we care a lot and we want to communicate this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u65	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u66	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the meetings of the parliamentary committees of inquiry on the banking and financial system and the events that have taken place in the "Il Forteto" community, already scheduled for tomorrow, Tuesday, December 3, at 10 am, are postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-169.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, December 3, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.47.
