ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u5	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for a few minutes honouring the privilege of remembering in this House a man, an Italian athlete, a Southern boy born in Apulia in my city, Barletta, and known all over the world for his extraordinary sporting feats. I'm talking about the late Pietro Mennea, who died prematurely at only sixty years just on March 21, six years ago, in 2013. Pietro Mennea is a legend of world sport, a man before that an athlete for all symbol of willpower and tenacity beyond limits, beyond fatigue, beyond physical limits, beyond suffering. It is not by chance that he always liked to repeat the words: "Suffer but dreams" to express the totalizing dimension of his commitment, of his determination to pursue an objective that for all could seem only a dream, but that he could transform into an extraordinary reality of life. Pietro Mennea in the seventies and eighties was the symbol of Italy and above all of the South who tries to find ransom through the commitment and the will to assert himself with his own strength; a boy not particularly physically endowed that challenges the muscles of the world powers, such as the Soviet Union and the United States, and wins pushed by the wind of his unstoppable dream. At only twenty years in 1972 he already participated in the first Olympics and ranked third in the 200 meters, after Borzov and Larry Black, who were giants at that time. 1979 (and this year also the forty years of the world record) is the golden year of Pietro Mennea, who as a university student participates in the Universiadis of Mexico City and in that place establishes the world record of 19 seconds and 72 cents, which will remain undefeated for seventeen years and which is still European record; and there is no enthusiast today of sports that does not have in mind in his memory precisely the memory of these two figures (19 and 72), which are a milestone of Italian sport. Mennea will then confirm his supremacy in Barletta with a time of 19 seconds and 96 cents; in 1980 he also reached the peak because he won the gold medal in Moscow and all in our memory we remember that race, even the historical and epic one. By now Mennea is known all over the world as the "arrow of the South," but at the height of his triumph he decides to quit, to dedicate himself to his life, that is to study and take four degrees, he actively devotes himself to the activity of accountant, lawyer and university professor, but above all he also becomes European Parliamentary from 1999 to 2004 for the center-right and in 2002 he is also candidate mayor in my city, Barletta, precisely for my party. This is the teaching that he wanted to leave us just because he loved to start the races in smooth and then win them right in the last meters. We would like it to be remembered by the new generations who have not had like us the fortune to follow live its achievements of those years. No matter what the starting conditions are, what matters is the grit that you are able to pull out in the path, whether it is an athletics track or daily life. An incurable evil took him away on March 21, 2013 at only sixty years, quickly, too quickly, in a hurry. But on the other hand, as always in his life. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity and for the memory today of our late Pietro Mennea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u8	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this day and in this place I am honoured to recall the memory of the great athlete Pietro Mennea, the champion and citizen of the city of Barletta. I like to remember that, because the values of sport are existential values that must continue to maintain human values. It is important to remember this on this day for the commitment, also political, exercised by great champion. Pietro Mennea continues to be a bulwark and above all a paradigm of behavior for the younger generations and for all of us who still look carefully at the ethical and moral values of our political practice. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have undoubtedly joined me in this remembrance at the moment, so that it can still be an element of perspective and, above all, can indicate a clear, clear and responsible path in any area and anywhere. Thank you for your attention in the memory of Pietro Mennea, the champion and citizen of the city of Barletta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motions for individual mistrust 1-00084 and 1-00091 against the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli. I call Senator Margiotta to explain motion No 84.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u10	Mr President, last Saturday in Rome there was a major demonstration of the construction sector. Companies, trade unions, workers, workers in the sector, professionals: 15,000 people in the square to demonstrate the economic difficulty of an important sector for the Italian economy. A sector that in recent years, since the beginning of the crisis, has lost 600,000 jobs, 120,000 companies close and two of the three main Italian companies for turnover, very important groups that have held high the name of Italian engineering in the world, in a very serious crisis, a step away from closure. The economic data are known to all. A budget law has been made bluffing on numbers, not only overestimating the sign "more," but denying that we risk having "less" signs as to gross domestic product. In this context, a serious government, both on the piece, that wants to look at the development of the country, invests in the construction sector. Any economist knows that it is the sector that gives the fastest response in the shortest time: it is said, typically, anticyclical. We read in today's newspaper and in recent days of the unblocking yards; we will read it. For now we see only one polemic, yet another, between two political forces that, until the European elections in May, will probably not be able to take any measures and will find agreements only on events that have little to do with politics, such as that we witnessed yesterday in Parliament: a net agreement between Movimento 5 Stars and League, which will probably be repeated this morning, and we do not want to think that the almost coincidence of dates has a malicious motivation. Unlocking yards what will it be? We'll see. Now it looks like there's an arm wrestle to figure out whether or not you can put in yet another dress more or less masked. Does anyone think that public works resume because laws change, because the transparency threshold is lowered, because corruption is made easier by speeding up the process? It's not like that. In the last hearing we had in the Commission, the hearing at Invitalia (the largest purchasing power station), we were told that, under the current procurement code, the central purchasing power contracted 272 works with litigation, and only in 7% of cases these works started. The problem, therefore, is not the code, but to have public administrations and contracting stations that know how to do their job and - even more - money to invest. However, if money is spent not on development, enterprise and the economy in the budget law, but on other measures such as the income of citizenship and quota 100, a clear and respectable political choice is made, in my opinion completely contrary to the needs of our country. We come to the merits of the motion of no confidence at the first signature of Senator Marcucci. The PD is a serious and rigorous party and, in order to arrive at a motion of no confidence, there must be - as there are in this case - serious and profound reasons. A motion of mistrust against a minister does not appear every "two by three." The motion is essentially focused, once again, on a ballet - this time even more unbecoming - related to the TAV. I could make a lot of comments on this subject, because the whole procedure that has been followed is all over the place. We follow a reverse chronological order. I can't say any other way except by Azzeccagarbogli the solution found a couple of weeks ago. The usual arm wrestling: the bans are blocked or go on. A strange procedure is invented, or - better - an ordinary procedure becomes extraordinary. I am referring to the fading clause in the ban, which then, using French terminology, is called a preliminary notice. The members of the Movimento 5 Stars boast of having blocked the work, while the League boasts, instead, of having sent it forward. The League is more right, because the fading clause is in any tender. The administration may decide not to do the work at any time, before or even after the award. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, the ordinary (i.e. a common standard and practice in tendering) becomes a great result of the Movimento 5 Stars. On the other hand, at least the communication knew how to do it before: politics did not and govern less, but communication knew how to do it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They could make a few words right. Now - according to the polls - they can't even do that anymore, but we'll talk about it after May 26th. This was the last shocking figure we made as a country, because then we say things here, but I believe that we laugh a little everywhere in the European Union for the solution we have identified. If we go ab origin, the series of pearls ringed in the construction of this procedure by Minister Toninelli is endless. We talk about cost-benefit analysis as if it were an invention and becomes a mantra. Everyone - or at least the operators of the sector - knows that the cost-benefit analysis is another ordinary thing for at least twenty years, moreover made obligatory by the so vicious - perhaps erroneously - objective law. In this work the cost-benefit analysis has been repeated several times in a very rigorous manner. Looks like this government discovered the cost-benefit analysis. Then we find out - but we said it a year ago - that it is nothing more than a device to take time and if they could have taken more two weeks ago, they would have done so. Here, I repeat, there are so many ringed pearls. Again, let's start with the last one. It sounds like a joke, but - unfortunately - it isn't. That doesn't make us look good in the country either. The chairman of the committee who drew up the cost-benefit analysis, Professor Ponti (in this case he did not name omen), said he was convinced of the opposition to the work, but - then - his society, together with others, signed for the European Union a document in which it is said that the work is fine. So, with one hand in Italy, he says that the work "does not have to be done" and with the other, instead, his society is paid in a sufficiently advantageous way to say that the work is fine. We are really at the Harlequin servant of two masters and we must ask the government for this figure too. How has the committee been set up? They take "x-1" Commissioners, who had already written documents against the TAV all over the world, plus a Commissioner who, on the other hand, was neutral at the start of the work and set up a commission responsible for carrying out the cost-benefit analysis. In short, as I said in another circumstance, Totò would say that he gave himself the track: dear, take a lot of time, write in the end that the cost-benefit analysis does not work because we must block this work to take some applause from the No TAV. The deception came out immediately: the engineer Coppola did not sign the cost-benefit analysis; a moment after the delivery, the same President of the Count Council asked to review it because there was a mistake mark. He said it was a gross mistake to correct: they "danced" a couple of billion euros. This cost-benefit analysis is not standing; it considers an environmental benefit as a cost: building the TAV means making less cars and trucks walk along the road and, therefore, consuming less gasoline - which should be a political choice of each Government, as it was for the Democratic Party, which has invested in iron treatment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] - and, instead, it becomes a curse because it reduces the excise duty on petrol. The numbers are wrong. For this reason and for many other reasons, the Democratic Party has considered it right that the Senate should vote for the distrust of Minister Toninelli for much incompetence, for great inconsistency and for the fact of seriously damaging the economy of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Gallone to explain motion No 91.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister Toninelli, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain to you why a party like Forza Italia presented for the first time in its history a motion of individual distrust. I would like to explain to you why Forza Italia in its twenty-five-year parliamentary history has decided to take such a distant position from its natural political feeling. Minister Toninelli, your case is a unicum. Minister Toninelli, we're not mad at you. Minister Toninelli, it's not your fault. We understand well that being Toninelli today is a heavy condition [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are absolutely in solidarity with you from this point of view because you do not need enemies or detractors because you are the best detractor of yourself and you are very good at doing everything by yourself. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Every day an Italian wakes up and knows that before evening a gaffe of Minister Toninelli will arrive. There would be a smile if hers were the comic jokes from which the Movimento 5 Stars started and, instead, they are not jokes and, therefore, there is nothing to laugh about. One cannot joke about the skin of Italians and Italy and the loss of thousands of jobs. You can't joke about the reputation of an entire country. We cannot joke about the credibility of our government abroad and in Europe. You can't joke about taxpayers' money; you can't joke about our children's future. There is more to be serious than ever because the problem is serious. Perhaps the problem is also the lightness with which you have agreed to play such a demanding and strategic role for the life of a nation like Italy without perhaps fully understanding its implications and the incredible responsibility. This tells you a lot about its capacity for awareness. Participating in the government of a country is not like participating in the program "the Corrida" of Corrado. It would be as if to me, absolute amateur of tennis, put the racket in hand to challenge Federer in the Davis Cup to represent Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It would be beyond madness, as she writes in one of her latest posts on Facebook - because we speak through Facebook posts - with reference to the fact that mad people criticize her because she promotes electric cars and buys diesel cars. Now, the problem, Minister Toninelli, is where he intends to bring Italy and the Italians with his non-sensical choices, where she intends to bring Italy with her superficial attitude, with her chilling utterances and disrespectful behaviors. Like that time when my colleague Mr Biasotti, recalling the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge in Genoa with tears in his eyes, addressed her, Minister, who remained with her head down and her eyes fixed on her cell phone and the calls of the Assembly, and replied that she listened with her ears while a class of students attended. We know where you, Minister Toninelli, are going to take Italy: you are going to bring Italy into a tunnel at the bottom of which, however, a high-speed train is coming and the country is going to crash. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The problem, therefore, is serious, very serious, and we, against every inclination that is natural to us as a liberal and guaranteeing political force, as a political force that makes the yes its recurring slogan, today we say a great, dry, sound, very strong no! No, because our duty is first of all to safeguard our nation, to try with all our strength to reinnect the march to make it start again, to pull it out of the swamp until the nose is still out and can breathe, out of stagnation before it turns into irreversible recession. Happy decline is not the natural condition for Italy and its people, for a country that has a strategic position within the Mediterranean. What terrifies us is the total lack of strategic vision, of what this nation wants to do when it grows up. What terrifies us is the improvisation that, following its natural vocation, Minister, the one that should follow, brings out natural jokes that are very effective on TV, but that for the country are deadly bats. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The problem, for example, is that by choosing not to complete the TAV, to mention the most striking case, the rest of Europe stops. The TAV is not only the small piece that passes through Italy, it is not only the part of the strategic communication corridor that would still make us central in Europe. The Italian TAV is a small part of corridor 5 Lisbon - Kiev and without the realization of the small piece that passes through Italy, everything will go on equally with the simple result of cutting us off. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Lyon has already prepared the agreement with Geneva at a lower cost because there are no tunnels. The result is that we're going to be a buoy. You know a buoy? Try to imagine Italy as the boa of the races, standing in the middle of the sea, floating, calm, with all the boats running very fast around her, competing for victory, being careful not to touch her, the buoy, penalty disqualification. No, Minister Toninelli, this is not what our country deserves: the country that with three caravans has gone to discover America, now risks becoming a buoy in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. No! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do you know what the TAV joke is? The joke of the TAV is that however the share of funds owed to Italy we will have to pay the same. So what should we tell you, Minister Toninelli, about this little gift you'd like to give the country? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] BERNINI (FI-BP). Will you please listen to us? Thank you! GALLONE (FI-BP). What should we tell you about this little gift you would like to do to a country that already has an exorbitant public debt? We should say, "Thank you for wanting to impoverish us even more"? We should say: "Thank you for the choices you would like to make despite us and with the money of the Italians?." No, we say "thank you" because we do not want to go from the decree unlock yards, which is only an effective title, to the block of Italy, as also the allies of the League fear. Today it is written in clear letters in the newspapers; Prime Minister Conte during his speech on the so-called Silk Road (another evocative and fascinating name, which hides dangers if not declined and implemented with extreme attention and competence if we do not want what happened to the United States) spoke of several strategic corridors. Instead we will also risk seeing us pass the containers that will duplicate, after the doubling of the Suez Canal, above the head, towards Rotterdam, towards Holland. We always visualize the buoy. Minister Toninelli, "Kirk a Enterprise": how do you think goods are moving around the world? With the transporter? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So block 28 great works, 600 minor works, undertake a fight against the private yards; you cannot go on like this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator D'Alfonso]] Mr Toninelli, do the right thing, what perhaps you should have done from the first moment, not accepting such a demanding Dicastery. Minister Toninelli, there is no remedy for death alone. We today, with the motion of no confidence in you, show that we are friends with you, that we want to give you an important assist. Pull the football of victory; visualize the door, resign and let the country win. Minister Toninelli, we're doing this for you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. The Senators of the FI-BP Group display signs bearing the inscription "Toninelli" we do it for you and the flag of Forza Italia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u12	I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10.02 p.m. and resumed at 10.04 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u13	Mr President, I shall vote on the motion of no confidence against Mr Toninelli, although the outcome seems to me to be completely obvious. I would also like to say that many things have been read in recent hours and weeks about the delegitimacy of the Minister. I do not know and we do not know what will be the decree unblocking yards and if there will be a single commissioner. Of course, Minister, you will not reflect on the climate that opposes you, but on what you find within the same majority. Having said that, for me there is not only the issue of the TAV. I have already made it clear that I am in favour of the TAV, even beyond what you think about it. The problem of how the Government - and you, objectively, as head of the Dicastery - is handling this matter is, in some respects, truly incredible. In fact, in order to avoid taking a decision, we use the devices that, in the eyes of the whole of Europe, appear and will become increasingly ridiculous. This is to avoid assuming that responsibility - basically, for me this is the point - which the Constitution assigns to it and assigns to the Government. On this you should have the courage to decide; you do not have it, wait for May 26, there are elections, everyone has to say that he has won, that his thesis goes on. It's really a joke for the Italians. The problem is that to pay the bill is Italy, a country in recession, a country in serious economic difficulty that, objectively, sees the end of 2019 and the drafting of the budget law for 2020 as a very high obstacle. So, the critical level, Minister... I understand that you are not interested, however, I would ask you for attention from a purely formal point of view. Let me add one last question, Minister. What strikes me most, in addition to the story of the TAV line, is that a year has passed: we do not understand what the strategy is, what the programming is, what we intend to do. We do not understand where the government intends to act - really, not with declarations and propaganda - to bring this country to an indispensable leap from an infrastructural point of view. Every time we discuss a work, in the end we find, in the territory first, and in the debate within the Government then, a dialectic that keeps everything blocked. This is a huge problem. Minister, you should take the responsibility, starting with this debate, to say what you actually intend to do and how the Government intends to do it, starting with the TAV. Unfortunately, however, he will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u14	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u15	Mr President, having listened to the illustration of the document that my Group is putting to the attention of this House today, it emerges, with bitter clarity, a consideration that bypasses any discussion of merit and that even the proposers - including myself - must become aware of. We must be aware that Minister Toninelli is already distrusted in the facts, and a vote against the motion of the Democratic Party would be nothing more than to deny the historical truth of a descending parable that led the person responsible for infrastructure and transport to lose all credibility in front of our fellow citizens, the productive fabric and the international community represented by the European institutions. We have heard this today in the examination of my colleague Margiotta; we have read it for months in the newspapers and on the web; we have heard it in the words of experts, research centres and impartial bodies. The events that have affected the management of the project Alta Velocità Torino-Lione since the beginning of the legislature constitute, in itself, a sentence condemning the work of Minister Toninelli and are the plastic representation of how the Minister is addressing the whole issue of the infrastructures of our country. As for the strategic Turin-Lion infrastructure, we had started from the new analysis of the relationship between costs and benefits, a chimera that even the Minister has never really believed and that, in the end, has turned out to be a boomerang even for those in the Executive with the intention to take time. We were looking for a piece of support to justify an otherwise uncomfortable disengagement of Italy in the realization of the work. But not even the many attempts at data manipulation and reading mystification have had the effect hoped for by the Minister, so much so that even Prime Minister Conte has tried to make desperate adjustments. Thus began the suicidal strategy that led us up to the threshold of the hypothesis of a mini TAV, hypothesis that for the North West and for Piemonte it would mean exactly being cut off from the railway line and its positive relapses in terms of economic development. In the meantime, there was a risk of having to give up European funding and, in the absence of certainties, policies, above all, and a firm leadership, the logic of the temporator prevailed again. But with the fading clause, companies will first and foremost pay for the uncertainty. The narration on the fading clause, that is, this extraordinary legal expedient provided for by the French order, has served to reassure only the voters of the Movimento 5 Stars. Dear Minister, you have the duty to explain to the Italians that even in our order there is the possibility for contracting stations to interrupt the tendering procedure in the presence of new obstacles. With this truth, however, he could not reassure the voters of the Movimento 5 Stars. Mr Minister, it is not you or your Government who will decide on the work, but only and exclusively Parliament. The sentence condemning ministerial work, ladies and gentlemen, is then already written and this House has a duty to ratify it, if it does not want to end the last Japanese. We certify the failure, which is already before everyone's eyes, and we put an end to the war of contradictions and mystifications of the domesticated reality, in order to be able at least to hope again in a step change and to give the country the reputation necessary to deal with the partners of the project, public and private. Because the theme, I will say it to the point of exhaustion, is not the destiny of Toninelli and not even of the Government, which, in uncertainty, has become strategically complicit. The fate is of Italy, of its national and international economy. The only fate we should care about. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u16	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Beppe Fenoglio) of Bagnolo Piemonte, in the province of Cuneo, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u17	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to reassure my colleagues, who have presented the motions of mistrust focused solely and exclusively on the TAV affair, who should not be concerned. I do not know why you are so worried, because I have the impression that, with all the drama that has been put in place on the matter of the bans that start and do not leave and the fading clause, as we all know, we are only trying to take time. In the end I am quite certain - alas - that the TAV line, perhaps with some adjustment, will be made. You see, Minister, this is one of the issues that I feel to blame for; exactly the opposite of the contents that have been expressed here in the illustration of the motions and that, as Senator Margiotta said, represent the demonstrations of the square: that of Friday of the buildings and that of the so-called madamin of Turin, all in favor of the TAV. As you will recall - I do not know if you were present during the debate on the motions for resolutions on the TAV line - I was first a signatory to an agenda which asked you to make a clear decision, because there is cost-benefit analysis, there had also been others and the debate on the TAV line has been going on for a long time. Well, I reaffirm here my position and that of many others. Saturday there will be in Rome the manifestation of the associations, committees and all those who fight against the ideology of the great works and above all against the great useless works. My position and that of many others has always been clear and was represented on that agenda, which certainly did not receive much reception in this House, which asked you for something specific: it committed the Government, without delay, to put once and for all the word "end" to the story of the TAV line, because we consider it an absolutely useless and harmful work. On the other hand, if for 20 years it has not been done, someone will have to give me an explanation. As far as I am concerned, therefore, if I were to concentrate on the issue of mistrust, I would immediately give you the distrust precisely because you did not take a decision; you continued, in this attempt to mediate with Salvini and the League, to take time and, once again, did not carry forward what you continue to make statements for, namely that the TAV line will not be done, while exactly the opposite will happen. Minister, in the meantime, if you really wanted to make a clear operation, which was not just the cost-benefit analysis, in order to put definitively the poles in the wheel to this work, making and taking a political decision on the matter of the TAV, you would have to do what you did not do: I think of the General Plan of Transport and Logistics and a clear planning of the infrastructures, really drawing up a chronoprogram and rebuilding a hierarchy of the works. In fact, within the CIPE, with that horrible objective law that has brought only trouble in this country, there is an endless and indeterminate list of works, in which you do not understand what will be done before and after. So your failure, Minister, lies in the fact that you have installed yourself on the wave of an option that no TAV, but you should have immediately revised the list of the works of CIPE and put your hand in the General Plan of Transport and Logistics, which is the programming tool to make sure that you make the right choices for this country. On this front too, however, nothing - and here is the deep sense, on which I will say something else - because it should have acted not to chat, but concretely. When we talk about the green plan of investments or the plan of the small and medium-sized works that serve the country, we do not mean sometimes released declamations, which may serve only when discussing TAV, but a serious job as Minister. I would like to say one more thing, Minister: after that blessed Salvini directive of three days ago on migration policy (No 14100) and all that has happened, you, who have once again been bypassed and expelled, should have resigned clearly, other than motions of distrust. It is not a matter of Lesa majesty, because also on the case of the ports and the ship Diciotti, as you know perfectly well, you had taken another decision, but it has been climbed over: Salvini is the Minister of Infrastructure, as we see now also with the perennial discussions on the unblocking yards. That is the point, and on the question of the content and dignity of your role you cannot joke: we would have expected this - frankly, I must say - from you. As far as I am concerned, I will not participate in the parade on the motion of distrust, because for me tactics cannot be without content: I say this clearly, because this has always been my way of conceiving politics. For twenty years I think the TAV line is useless, so I can certainly not give her the distrust on the matter, because she did not do it; I will gladly give it to her, however, when the scene is over (and here I fear that unfortunately, alas, the TAV will be done). I repeat that it would have been necessary to resign, following this directive a few days ago, that it has completely deported it, signed by Salvini and addressed, bypassing it, to the commander: but do you realize what has happened on the case of the ports? I will not be here to make a list of your gaffes, although I could, because it is a problem with which you have to deal and which honestly does not interest me and this House. Instead, I am talking about the dignity of the role of the Minister of Infrastructure, which not only cannot appear continuously, but not even be concretely and constantly subject - as it is, alas, the whole Government - to Prime Minister Salvini. That's what we're talking about. That's the real reason. I would like to reiterate the hope that you will, in this respect, mature in these days and also have a whisper of dignity, which, frankly, as a result of the directive of the other day and of all the events that have taken place, I would have expected. But now there is the exchange: yesterday you voted against the authorization to proceed against Senator Salvini and now the League will make this exchange of favor. However, see that not only do you not save dignity, but it is now clear and established by all that you no longer take into account the coherence - even if someone in politics may think it is unnecessary - and all the commitments you had made. Evidently the government contract is only and constantly declined on the aces and wills of the League itself. I confirm the fact that I will not participate in the vote, because I find in these motions of distrust the lack of so many elements that should have included there, in particular the case of the ports that we discussed yesterday and what happened, that it was specific competence of Minister Toninelli, but of which there is absolutely no trace. I therefore confirm that, like many others, we will not participate in the vote. [[Applause from Senators De Falco and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u19	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u20	Mr President, in principle, our Group and I personally are opposed to motions of individual mistrust, because we believe that the responsibility for government actions is collective. It must be said in this case that certainly Minister Toninelli has passed to the honors of the chronicle more than for the positive or even negative actions of his Dicastery, rather for his words and his attitudes and for his being at the center of the journalistic gossip. I don't know how bad it is, but it is. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation on the shoulders of Minister Toninelli is not merely administrative, as for other Dicasteries, but we could define it by another name, perhaps more imaginative, the "delegacy of the future": the infrastructures of a nation strictly stick to its ability to stay within the future and intercept progress. This, Minister, is the most negative aspect - in my view - of what has happened in almost one year's management of the delegation. I would like to recall very briefly that, when the Government settled, it had on the table works for about 23 billion euros, that I try briefly to summarize: the Third pass of the Giovi along the axis Genoa-Milan, for a total value of 6,2 billion, blocked by the cost-benefit analysis of the famous commission of the professor Ponti; the Brescia-Verona axis, approved by the CIPE, for 2 billion euros, with additional act signed by the Italian Railway Network with the eneral contractor, blocked also this from the famous commission of the professor Ponti; the axis Verona-Bivio Vicenza, work approved by the CIPE for an amount of 2,7 billion, for which the subscription of the act integrating Italian Railway Network and the general contractor is being carried out, but also in this case the work is blocked by the commission of the professor Ponti. Then there is the Vicenza-Padova, final project available, including the node of Vicenza: there is no need to make the race, there is special concession to the general contractor, but also in this case the work is blocked by the mythical professor Ponti. With regard to the Naples-Bari axis, for the realization of the participation special extraordinary commissioner is previewed, this time with full powers: currently two lots have been entrusted for a total amount of approximately 700 million euros, the remainder is of 3,4 billion euros and the commissioner, currently managing director of Italian Railway Network, could entrust the various lots utilizing modalities that transfer to the winners of the contests also the drafting of the plans. For the Palermo-Catania axis the amount of the work is attested to a value pairs to 5 billion euros and for the realization of the participations is previewed special extraordinary commissioner with full powers; currently is excluded the first lot in the area of Himera and nothing has been entrusted. Also in the latter case the commissioner is the current administrator of Italian Railway Network: he could entrust the lots using the modalities that transfer, mentioned above. From this list, if the government wanted to, it could immediately unlock works for about 23 billion euros. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Here, Minister, I have a legitimate doubt: isn't it by chance that the money mentioned is no longer there? It is not by chance that what you did with the last financial, namely the cut to Italian Railway Network of 2.6 billion euros that blocks virtually every activity throughout 2019, like you did for all the works that I have just mentioned and that were not - attention - of the previous Governments - neither that Gentiloni, nor the others - but were residues of the infamous - as the colleague suggests - objective law? That was all she had on the table. But then, what have you done with those resources? Can you tell us that, Minister? You see, with respect to the words for which you have passed into history, we also record the story of the dismantling of the merger between Anas and Ferrovie dello Stato, almost a making holes and filling them at the first opportunity. Explain to us, Minister, why, when a Minister speaks, he does not speak a senator, a free citizen or a spokesman for the Movimento 5 Star: he speaks the State and, in front of the words of the State, people trust, he still tends to trust, despite everything; companies do their projects and local administrations decide their investment plan. Therefore, to have assembled the blessed fusion between Anas and Ferrovie dello Stato - and then we also know who has actually brought benefits, at least in the current state - and then to decide, after a few months, to disassemble it, generates within the two companies a state of uncertainty and indeterminateness and the decision-makers, the managers and the boards of directors wait to understand what happens. Do we need to reassemble this merger? Tell us, Minister, because it is not enough to exclaim, or rather: before you declare you should be sure that you can do it, because otherwise all this really causes irreparable damage to your Dicastery. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] I start to conclude by saying that unfortunately the ten minutes available are few, even to describe nothingness. I quote the story of Central Italy, of the famous and infamous Quadrilatero, the story of Astaldi and what is happening with a huge number of businesses that are jumping like chestnuts on fire. Those companies have worked, Minister, and the work must be paid. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Work cannot be crushed within a procedure and the overfinancialisation of each contract and project. You said that you would put your hands on the procurement code, that you would cancel the notorious practice of the general contractor: where is the reform of the procurement code? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] It has been a year since you took office, Minister: in a year many things are done, but very many. Colleagues, I repeat that, as far as we are concerned - but you will say it better than I do Mrs Santanche speaking in an explanation of vote - we are not more fascinated by the motions of individual distrust, also because I believe that the numbers of this House can already make us know what the outcome of the vote on the motions we are debating today will be. But let us take advantage of this passage - and this is the meaning of my speech - to be explained by the Minister, whom I imagine he will make a reply and clarify some passages, what he is doing, because we would like to understand that. We would like to understand what is happening in your blessed Ministry, as you spend the day, as you fill eight, ten or twelve hours of work. You have to explain this to us. [[Applause from the FdI groups and Senator Rizzotti]] An entire nation is waiting; there are firm works, commissioners ad acta, extraordinary commissioners. What is happening within the very important delegation of infrastructure? Italy's infrastructure costs a dramatic gap which must be quickly filled. Do what you want, but do something. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u21	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u22	Mr President, in order to justify the distrust of Minister Toninelli, it would be enough to remember that he is the only Minister of Infrastructure in the world - I believe - that, in the year in which he was in office, more or less, not only did he not start any fundamental work for our country, but he is even doing everything to block all those that had been planned in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In other nations, I think they'd have kicked him out already. In any case, there are at least six good reasons for distrust of the Minister. The first is that in all countries, as well as in Italy, the speed of economic recovery and competitiveness depend to a large extent on investments, major infrastructure works, that is, on the ability to look to the future and equip the country with infrastructures to seize those opportunities. On the contrary, in Italy, the decision that the Minister has taken is to block almost all the works, even those in progress, some of which are already partly financed. It is something resounding that puts companies, workers, the development of the country in difficulty and compromises the agreements that Italy has concluded in Europe. You are responsible, Minister, for the infrastructural paralysis that comes from your unhappy choice to appoint a group of opponents to everything in an assignment that has to do with the development of Italy. You have worked cleverly to prevent it, even intervening several times to guide the conclusions of that group in the negative. Moreover, it has shown obvious inadequacy: its announcements on the timing of the conclusions of the cost-benefit analyses have always been false. You have played on the skin of Italy; you have carried on your negative vision of development; you have reached the point of allowing the inclusion of everything in that analysis: to understand us, there was only the cost of waste that workers will produce during the realization of the works to complete the absurdities contained in that analysis. You have taken all the information from Parliament: we have known the data from the press, never from your Ministry and, moreover, I am a member of the competent Commission. We read those data from the press. If I remember correctly, you professed transparency on the occasion of the examination of the motions in the House, but you qualified with an obvious behavior, which has to do with a vision that owns the public good. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You have exposed the country to contradictions and contrasts with other European countries. On many of the agreements you have isolated Italy. We are isolated; the first speaker spoke of buoys and I imagine she also meant this. I think you are the only Minister of Infrastructure and Transport in the world who has doubts about the knowledge of the projects and the state of the place. I refer to the existing tunnels - which do not exist is the Brenner tunnel - or to those which do not exist and which, on the contrary, exist in part on the Turin-Lyon route. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It shows about that and is inadequate with respect to the very high task it should carry out. Dear Minister for Happy Degrowth [[Applause from the PD Group]] , we do not want a country that goes back to the Middle Ages; indeed, we have left it an important legacy, billions of euros and projects (connecting Italy, the care of iron), but she is doing everything to deconstruct what she has received. We are convinced that the perspective of Italy is in growth and development and that to pursue it, and therefore for the good of Italy, it is more than appropriate that you leave the position, because it is dismantling everything. I think no Italian will complain about your absence if you are not at the Ministry. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the contrary, I apologize: probably one will be there, that is the very good comedian Maurizio Crozza, because, if she left, would lack a source of food of Italian comedy. The country, however, would benefit. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u23	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u24	Mr President, I do not think I will use two of the three minutes that I am allowed, because I simply need to draw the attention of this House, and especially of Presidents Marcucci and Bernini, to the inopportunity of the reasons given to ask Mr Toninelli for his distrust. The exclusive appeal to the TAV motif is extremely limiting and divisive. Indeed, Minister Toninelli has other reasons for resigning, much more serious. The minister Toninelli should resign - according to me - because he has been substantially absent from its specific tasks and has left the management of the portualità and the events connected with the shipwrecks to the incompetence of the minister Salvini. As my colleague Mrs De Petris said earlier, the Ministers swear to carry out their duties with dignity and honor. The Minister must then resign not for the TAV line, not for this or that reason, but because dignity and honor have been lacking. It must be resigned because the story Diciotti, like all other events, like all the suffering lived, could be created for the total absence of intervention of the subject placed at the head of the Administration also responsible for the disembarkation. Yesterday we talked about it: also of the disembarkation in port is responsible the Maritime Administration. On the other hand, immigration is the responsibility of the other Minister; but the landing in port, the landing of shipwrecks is the responsibility of the Maritime Administration, and the Minister has complained. Yeah, there's an infrastructure paralysis, there's a fugitive. That is why I shall still vote for mistrust, despite your limited and divisive proposals. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u25	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am telling you the truth: we hesitated a little when we thought of tabling the motion of no confidence, but not for the terms that Mr De Falco recalled. Frankly, politically speaking, the more you remain as Minister and the more chance we have to win the next European elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is clear that the public's interest has prevailed over this political interest and, therefore, we have thought, having more than sufficient elements, to present it equally. Something we had already understood since his settlement. I am a member of the Committee on Transport, Public Works and Communications of the Senate and I thank my President for pointing out to me as the Parent Company in that Commission. Well, when all the Ministers of your Government went to the parliamentary committees for their mandate a few days after the government was installed, you looked at it well and arrived not before 31 July, two months late, in fact holding the Commission hostage, which did not technically know what you were planning to do. Let me tell you that it would have been better if you had come later. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because, after he came, frankly, we felt even more in trouble. But when he showed up on 31 July last year (i.e. two months late), we discovered - I tell the representatives of the majority - what you had in mind and the fact that public works in general were a problem for you, which fully represents the 5 Star Movement. I say many times that the Movimento 5 Stars is consistent from this point of view, because on the big, medium and small works it was really clear. And you have been very clear from the outset, so much so that about ten of the 45 pages of the intervention you have made in the Commission are about cycloves. I do not know if he remembers the line I made to President Schifani, who sat next to me in the Commission on that occasion. I said that the problem is special for President Schifani because, coming from Palermo, by bike gets to the maximum in Messina and will not even be able to pass on the other side of the Strait. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In any case, when you breathe again during the crossing by ferry, at Villa San Giovanni you will definitely surrender, because getting to Rome will be a problem. What was a joke then turned out to be the tragic reality, because investment has disappeared. Today I enjoyed examining, given by data, all the investments that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has put on the field from 2001 to today. Well, it should be noted first of all that there are more than 28 blocked works and they concern all the regions. I live in Tuscany and I remind you of the third lane between Florence and Pistoia, the Tyrrhenian highway and the system of the Lucca ring road. However, on the question of roads, we still have no knowledge of what you have in your head and, if you say so, it does us a kindness, mainly because the gross domestic product is linked to the links, as you also pointed out on page 2 of your speech. In fact, you said that yours is the Ministry of Travel and that nothing more than travel can grow, progress, improve and, ultimately, can make so many people dream. Dream yes: in fact we continue to dream that in Italy there will be public works that will never arrive. In 2018 the Ministry allocated a total of 15 billion euros, in 2019 the figure fell to 12 billion euros, while in 2021 even to 10.8 billion euros. I have then verified what happens directly in the infrastructural logic: if the 2018 previewed participations for 5,7 billion, the 2019 previews for 2,9 billion and 2020 for 6,2. This goes hand in hand with VAT safeguards. I want to see how you guys do it. You won't even be able to allocate 50 euros. In 2021 the figure fell dramatically to 2.6 billion. Mr. Minister, I'll give you some news that will surprise you. Senator Rizzotti points out to me that the Minister is inattentive, but it is not new to me. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'm used to this: he doesn't even listen when the majority group senators talk. It's not a problem, as long as they listen to the Italians. As I said, I have news that will surprise you, Minister. In 2001, what you called the objective law that stimulated corruption was adopted and you are ashamed only for thinking so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The then centre-right government, which ruled from 2001 to 2006, allocated €125.8 billion for infrastructure interventions and, therefore, public works. In 2005, 51 billion euros were already sung; in the previous five years only 7 billion euros and in the following years even worse. The objective law was an essential tool for the development of the territory and not a shame, as you said. You're a serial liar. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And since he is a serial liar, in his speech in the Commission (page 10 of the Report) he said: "The objective law has achieved about 15% of the initial programme". False and liar: this is the reality. If we want to move on to the desire of "poltronismo" - the "poltronificio" has now hit you and there is nothing to do - we can dwell on ANAS and Ferrovie dello Stato - whose summits you have defenerated to place your people - or the ENAV, on which I would spend a minute. You, Minister, even blocked the industrial plan approved in 2018, otherwise the flight controllers would have struck. But I remind you that 57% of the property of ENAV is of the State and you must manage it, Minister. Write ENAV on one side. It is a good thing that they stopped you on Fincantieri and related, but because international markets intervened, otherwise no one would have bought and kept the securities of those companies in cash. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But do we want to go to the procurement code? Here's a movie to shoot. Mr President, if the senators were to avoid going to the government stand to talk to the ministers while the speeches are taking place, it would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u27	The speakers are addressing Minister Toninelli, and I would therefore ask the senators to return to their posts. (Senators move away from government benches.) MALLEGNI (FI-BP). On the procurement code 8a Commission - I always thank President Coltorti because, with a sense of responsibility, he conducts the work of the Commission; I do so in the Commission and I can do so also in this House and of course I give him notice - he has invested weeks and we are still holding hearings on the issue of the procurement code. At one point, one morning - I put the question officially in the Commission - we discover, through our Studies Office, that we have received a veil of the delegation law on the Procurement Code with a definition of detail of what the future of the Procurement Code Act would be. Do you know where Parliament is? What's that?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u28	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Will Parliament have the right to decide something on the issue of the procurement code, or do we make the mistake of the previous legislature when we delegated a magistrate and DAC to make a procurement code that has brought our country to its knees? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] My microphone's flashing, which means we're at the end of the surgery. Minister, I want to tell you one more thing. I avoid making references to his gaffes. You've become a real professional, and the Carabinieri Weapon is grateful, because now they don't make jokes about it anymore. Of course you have become one of the principles of wanting to be goliardic. If incompetence were a crime, neither would the Junta presided over by the excellent president Maurizio Gasparri. At that point, you'd be charged for this kind of crime for life. Today I will have fun counting the votes that will be cast against the motion of no confidence, since yesterday the majority only expressed 153 votes to save the Minister of the Interior, Senator Salvini, and our votes were necessary to prevent Minister Salvini from going under trial. Today I want to see if there will be more than 153 votes that will save you, because your Group has failed to support that majority that would have put a man who defended the interest of the State under trial. [[Many Senators of the FI-BP Group stand up. Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The debate is closed. He asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who, with the motions before me, give me the opportunity to tell the story of the work done during the nine months of government. The first important issue we faced in the summer was the migratory wave in the Mediterranean. We have done so in respect of human rights, but at last we have also applied the firmness necessary for the restoration of legality and international conventions. Thanks to the government's work, the number of boats that sailed from Libya has fallen dramatically over the past year. I quote only the significant figure of the first glimpse of 2019: from 1 January to 20 March 398 migrants were rescued against 6,161 in the same period of 2018, a decrease of 94 percent, with a Coast Guard that continued to save lives and a Government that was respected at European level. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] As a result, the number of deaths in the Mediterranean has also fallen. It is good news that it is not enough, of course, because we want to zero these numbers completely, but the first months of action of this Government are more than encouraging. For the first time, thanks to our work, the responsibility and hypocrisy of our partners, who in words have always professed acceptance, have been put at the heart of the European political debate, often denying it in fact. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Subsequently, we were witnesses, as we never wanted, of the tragic realization of the most serious fears on which we had placed the emphasis of our program: the collapse of the bridge Morandi of Genoa has revealed to the whole Italy the harmful consequences of the abdication of the State - and I emphasize abdication - from its role of regulator and above all of controller, also highlighting all the criticalities of a model of motorway concessions promoted, or at least endorsed, by the previous Governments, shamefully unbalanced in favor of the economic interest of few and not of the public interest. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALAN (FI-BP). You don't understand anything! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. We have dealt with this with the greatest possible effort, on several fronts. First of all we have published for the first time - yes - all the financial plans of the contracts of the motorway dealers that contain - my lords - those mechanisms that have allowed the dealers those huge extra profits. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You're lying here too! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. A transparency in the name of the fairness of the market and the awareness of the citizens that had been expected for many years and that had never been seen before. In the second line, in response to the tragedy, we have put in place fast and concrete solutions, starting the reconstruction of the bridge without the intervention of the dealer. You will remember that we said that the man who was handling him, and did not maintain him as he should, would never rebuild him, but would pay him. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We kept that promise. I was lucky enough to meet many of the families of the displaced in Genoa and received hugs at the last meeting, when we started the demolition, a few weeks ago, of the Morandi bridge. STEFANO (PD). What tenderness! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. They thanked us because they have a new home, they have a new home. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] When has it ever been seen, in Italy, in such a short time, as a result of a tragedy such as that or similar to it, such a rapid, immediate and effective intervention on the part of the State? Here too - I repeat - we said so and we did. From the analysis of the economic plans of the concessionaires, finally completely public, we have also found that the investments supported, the maintenance carried out and the services provided were not in line with the rates paid by the citizens passing to the toll booth and at the beginning of the year, for the first time, we blocked 90% of the increases of the highway tolls. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] That never happened, either. Meanwhile, again in the decree Genoa, we have inserted a norm that will allow the Authority of regulation of the transports (ART) to limit in the future the increases of the rates that they will even be able to go down. Yes, we have blocked 90% of the increases on 1 January, and in the future, when the five-year economic and financial plan expires, motorway tolls will be reduced. This has never happened in the past. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Buccarella.]] These were measures which had long-term effects, not at all linked to a short-term political horizon. But, as the state returns to the state with us, we have resumed after years to send the technicians of the Ministry to do the inspections, to go to the places to check the infrastructure to ensure its safe keeping [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] checks that, when I entered the Ministry, they were made only on paper. Now the Ministry engineers are gonna go check in. We have set up the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures, which has exactly the aim of caring for the supervision and continuous maintenance of arteries, bridges and viaducts, as has not been the case for a long time, and Genoa tragically demonstrates its need, because planning and preventing is much more convenient than chasing emergencies. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We are moving from a post-emergency state policy to a policy of planning and prevention. We have always said this: the greatest work that the country needs is made up of many small works spread throughout the national territory. [[Senator Zaffini's comments.]] However, there are also large shipyards, which have been shut down for years or even decades - yes, they have been shut down for years or even decades - and we are working to unlock them. As an example, I mention only a few that we have already unlocked or are unlocking: highway Asti-Cuneo, highway 640 Agrigento-Caltanissetta, highway 106 Jonica, Sassari-Alghero; I quote these just to name a few. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In addition to this, we are working to improve the project of the Bologna passerby - yesterday I met the local authorities together with the dealers - making it more economical and sustainable on the environmental side and more effective on the transport side. [[Comments of Senator Collina]] We have done a cost-benefit analysis and today we can talk about a project that saves EUR 120 million, with a better result in the cost-benefit analysis in terms of traffic, environmental and land occupation. We did it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Not to mention the Third Jupiter Pass. But let's go to the TAV. In the Government contract it is stated that with regard to the Turin-Lyon high-speed line, we undertake to re-examine the project in full in the application of the agreement between Italy and France. This commitment has been the polar star of my action on the dossier in recent months. This is an objective that no one could reasonably dispute if we were to get out of the sterile controversy and even consider the disproportion - I stress disproportion - of the financial commitment between Italy and France. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which was assumed by previous governments against national interest. And I stop at this point without going into specifics. Redebate is a duty assumed by the Government in Parliament since its inception and reaffirmed by two separate motions; the first just a month ago in the Chamber of Deputies and the second only two weeks ago in the Senate of the Republic. I have acted totally in coherence and transparency, as I will explain briefly, highlighting: firstly that the instrument identified after the start of the government activity for the re-debate of the work, as from the government contract, at the basis of our commitment was that of a new cost-benefit analysis that was carried out - finally, I would add - by a subject other than the promoter of the work or by a subject commissioned by it, therefore unlike what happened previously; secondly that the composition of the working group forming part of the technical mission structure of the MIT has been made known since last September; thirdly that the experts identified in this working group are recognized at international level for their expertise in the field of cost-benefit analysis and in the field of transport economy and engineering. Since the start of the cost-benefit analysis, it has been publicly stated that the work is functional not to take a decision, but as a contribution to the re-debate of the project. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In order to allow the completion of the complex work of analysis in compliance with the agreements with France, as foreseen by the commitment, I have interloquito with my French homologation and remembered several times how, in the aftermath of the inauguration of the new French Government in 2017, a commission of experts has been appointed for the redefinition of the priorities of the Country in the field of infrastructures and transports. The French Minister for Economic Affairs himself spoke of the project in question as an important investment, considering it entirely legitimate that the Italian Government has decided to go further if it can be profitable. In the context of the intercourse with the French Minister, it was agreed to postpone certain procedural acts relating to the work, pending the findings of the cost-benefit analysis, provided that they were previously shared with France and the European Commission. From there comes the need for a preliminary comparison with our partner in the project and with Brussels. Going forward on the specific points related to the TAV, I announced these steps and proceeded in the indicated direction as soon as the cost-benefit analysis of the Mission Structure Working Group was completed. Continuing, the same results were subsequently and quickly sent to Parliament, published on the Ministry's website and placed at the basis of the subsequent re-debate of the project within the Government. Finally, a further phase of the procedure was launched, during which the Italian Government will be able to discuss the project again with the French Executive and at European level. The condition for this further phase was that it should not impose additional charges on the Italian State in the event of withdrawal. All the passages I have listed have been made known both to Parliament and to the public, and they are clearly part of the commitment made with the government contract. The intention of the work carried out was to favour the choice more in line with the public interest - and I would like to stress this - without any prejudice whatsoever. In fact, the cost-benefit analysis produced by the Mission Technical Structure has configured not one, but four different scenarios. In response to those who accuse us of cultivating a preliminary attitude to the work, I emphasize that one of the scenarios has as its basis the same data of the Observatory on the railway axis Turin-Lion established of the previous governments. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Those are the data, which we put in a computer and which the technicians of the cost-benefit analysis used. On this scenario it has even been hypothesized in the analysis the savings deriving from the so-called project review, which - I remember - in contrast to what is stated by the oppositions, turns out to have been only the subject of an information of the MIT to CIPE, that has not involved the adoption of any resolution. In any case, the results of the analysis were very negative for the work. The Government of change, while correctly reconsidering this individual, a large investment in the interest of the State and the citizens, is introducing - with absolute determination - some measures that speed up many yards, and at the same time is placing at the center of its action the citizen who travels and the entrepreneur who moves for work. I talked about the highway rates. Many of those who have filed motions have probably already taken advantage of the blockage of motorway toll increases that took place at the beginning of the year. But it is also important for the reform of the road code, which puts safety and environmental sustainability at the centre, starting from the defence of pedestrians, cyclists and so-called weak users, who, on the contrary, should be perceived as an opportunity, not an obstacle to motorists: a lever of change for the whole mobility system. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I could still talk about the dossier of Gioia Tauro, to which I particularly care - having repeatedly met the workers, the workers of that port - that we are leading to a successful end among a thousand inherited difficulties. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I could tell you about our ministerial decree that will finally force all road managers to install the barriers save motorcyclists. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] However, I prefer to conclude by giving the news of a very important measure that will shortly bring savings in terms of time and money for all citizens, namely the portability of the license plate when changing cars: a normal fact - I think so - but that had never been done before. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). You're stuck on the plate! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. It's one of those innovations that brings my Ministry closer to everyone's life and I'm proud of it. The attacks that have been directed at me, all focused on my person, and casually started when we questioned the system of management of motorway concessions... [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] BITI (PD). First, Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let the Minister finish. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I was saying, the attacks are the best proof of the inconsistency of the arguments used against my work. There is still so much to do to reduce those who have greedily devoured the country and to put the citizens at the centre. MALPEZZI (PD). Then unlock the works! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. There's a lot to do, but we've gone that way. And I'm proud of what I've accomplished as a minister and we've taken on as a government. MALPEZZI (PD). I mean nothing! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I'd do it again without hesitation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u32	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Brothers of Italy has always been against motions of mistrust, because we believe that responsibility lies with the entire Government. The Government is a collegiate body for which, again this time, we have not tabled the motion of distrust, precisely because of what I have just said. However, I must tell you, Minister Toninelli, that in these nine months you have demonstrated all your inability. And I must also point out that I was very sorry to see a five-star Minister of Movement who, in response, arrives in the Chamber with a speech already written by the offices. So this makes me understand that you have little respect for democracy, because you have not listened to the speeches of your colleagues in the general debate, but you have simply said what they have written to you. So, in the face of democracy. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Having said that, Minister Toninelli, I would like to make a comparison with football which, perhaps, is easier for you to understand. When a coach of a football team plays all the games of a championship and every Sunday he comes home with a sound defeat, he is eventually excused or, however, understands that it is not his job. That, Minister, we must tell you quite frankly that this is not your job. The Ministry you are now leading cannot be represented by you: such an important Ministry, that of infrastructure and transport. Unfortunately, I must also remember that the founder of his political movement, Beppe Grillo, has often said that these are boys and you have to be patient. No, Minister, it is the Italians who cannot be patient. Unfortunately, it is a luxury that Italians cannot afford. Then I would like to return to another word, which was a mantra of all the Movimento 5 Stars, which is the merit. You've always talked about merit. It should make us understand, then, what is the merit for which you are sitting in that chair; what is your curriculum; what experiences you did before you became Minister of Infrastructure; what is your apprenticeship. You see, we don't believe that apprenticeships can be done by the Vice Premieres, the Mayors or the Minister. Apprenticeship is a serious thing; training is an absolutely serious thing and this, in his resume, honestly we have not seen it, it is not written. I must tell you that in the memory of the Italians you - yes - will be reminded, Minister, but this will happen for many of your gaffes that have hurt our nation. I remember very well when you, after an interview with the European Commissioner for Transport, perhaps to amaze, asked how many goods and how many cars passed through the Brenner Tunnel. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] And you're the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure! I do not know if now he has realized that that tunnel has never been done and, if it is done, it will still be only railway. In memory, the Italians will remember very well when you, in an interview with TG2 Motori, said you had the great desire, the day when you will no longer be Minister, to leave Italy, our nation, invaded by columns for the power of electric cars. I have to tell you that she also gave me a little tenderness when, soon after, she said that she had just bought a diesel SUV herself who is part of a government that has put the ecotax, a jump, another tax to squeeze Italians like lemons. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] But what is your consistency, Minister? But how can you, perhaps even innocently, put the ecotax first and then buy for your family a diesel powered SUV? In memory the Italians will also remember the transmission of Bruno Vespa filmed on such a tragic fact as the fall of the Morandi bridge; they will remember the smiles and photo opportunities taken near the plastic. And not only that: they will remember when she, with conviction, said that the bridge would be rebuilt immediately, quickly, and that it would even be a meeting place, where to go to eat and have fun. Here, the "bridge of the games": we must say that Grillo could not make the lunapark instead of the ILVA, but she will certainly be able to make the "bridge of the games." Congratulations! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] In this regard, I would like to ask you a very serious question, Minister. From press sources it is learned that what you called the bloodthirsty of Atlantia, those who were to be prosecuted and hunted, will become its members and members of this Government in Alitalia. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]] You must answer us on this, Minister, telling us if Atlantia will be a member of your Government in Alitalia. I remember she wanted to kick them out of our country because they were bleeding. You will have to answer in this Parliament, in this House, if those of Atlantia will be your members and members of the Government in Alitalia. Mr Minister - as I said before - we are not inclined to the motions of mistrust. If we were selfish and were to think of the electoral consensus for Brothers of Italy, today we should make her an oil, we should cheer for her. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]] The more you speak and the more you sit in that chair, the more we support you and yours, Minister. But we are patriots, we want the good of our nation, we want the good of Italy. Therefore, we believe that you are paid to do the infrastructure and that the Italians do not want to pay you not to do it. We want more TAV, higher speed, from the Alps to Sicily. We want to finance the bridge over the Strait of Messina. We want a minister who does not say no to the future and development of this nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And then, Minister, I think you have a conscience and a heart too. It should not have waited today for a motion of distrust, which - I am telling you honestly - is a method that will perhaps strengthen it, because today everyone will be cohesive around you, voting naturally against it. They are techniques that will strengthen it, and this will not please the Italians. But you, Minister, if you have a heart, put your hand on your conscience and go home, for the good of Italy and Italians. For all this, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the motion of distrust. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u33	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Tisia d'Impera" of Termini Imerese, in the province of Palermo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u36	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Minister Toninelli, today's is a delicate and important passage from our point of view. We have come to present a motion of distrust as the only possible act to create the conditions for the Government to return to work in the interests of our country. We have supported our arguments, tried to convince you and - in our view - produced sufficient reasons for changing your behaviour and priorities, Minister. But she, with pervicacy and determination, went on her way, which brings damage to our country and to our national community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We do not allow ourselves to set reasoning on personal matters, as you rightly denounced in your speech, but we do so in medium and long-term political terms: as a responsible political force, we want to understand, together with the Government and the majority forces, the damage that you, Minister, are causing to our country. Its position, which will bring or would like to bring Italy to the unhappy decline - because there is no happy one [[Applause from the PD Group]] - is the choice of wanting to block our country, preventing investment and leaving aside those huge and important funds that previous governments have found and left it as a legacy. I repeat that this is to the detriment of the country and we, Minister, cannot allow it to happen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] There are many tens of billions waiting to be invested and belong not to you, Minister, but to our country and our national community: they must allow our country to restart and our economy to re-launch, but you, Minister, are working so that this does not happen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Your speech, if I may, has strengthened our conviction that it is impossible for you to continue to play the important role of Minister for Transport and Infrastructure [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and not for the many cases, obvious and resounding, in which it has shown inadequacy - besides, nobody is born Minister and it takes time to learn, and we understand it - but for its strategic choices contrary to our country: this is the point. You, with method and determination, convinced the President of the Council and the Government all to work for our country to be blocked and many public works, already started, were blocked throughout the national territory, going against our future and the guarantee of the future of modernising an Italy that needs to be modernised and would have the conditions to be modernised. I am referring to a lot of public works, infrastructure works. Of course, the most resounding story is that of the TAV. There are whole territories that demand it strongly, but you of the Movimento 5 Stars in the electoral campaign have always placed yourself on the side of those who wanted to beat the police and continue to do so in France because you no longer have the courage and the possibility to do so in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today, therefore, you are experiencing a time of difficulty. What then is your solution, Minister? She tries to block everything and does it for her colleagues, so that the vice president of Di Maio council - here present and for this we thank him - can announce to the country that finally the TAV is blocked and until there will be the Movimento 5 Stars to the government it will not go ahead. On the same day, a few minutes later, Vice President Salvini - on this I will return - declares instead that finally the bans are unlocked and the TAV will go on. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You, Minister, allow these conditions to be created. You, Minister, are throwing our country into internal discredit and towards Europe: this is unacceptable. We can no longer accept this kind of behavior. A government must have a voice, it must have a program, it must make measures: it cannot continue to make fun of an entire country and you are doing so together with your colleagues. It's not acceptable. You invented a committee, giving it an almost formal mandate before it was set up, going to see if the conclusions would have been what you yourself would have wished for. You subjected the country to a continuous farce, an inability of judgment, decision and future. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You, Minister, have delegated your powers. You used as the first point in your report the results you would have obtained on the issue of immigration. The only result you have obtained on the issue of immigration is that you have delegated your functions to the Minister of the Interior, and you certified this with your party yesterday by saving Minister Salvini from a process that was legitimate, desirable and a signal of transparency for our country and for public opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It was a necessity of truth. You see, Minister, unfortunately - I say this for you - we are not alone in criticizing you. In the corridors of the Palaces he should hear his colleagues of majority who did not speak in general debate: the Ministers of the League who are not present today to support it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, take note of this situation. Have the courage to be aware of the situation in which it brought the Government and the country, blocking us and putting us on the face of ridicule, preventing us from making legitimate battles of European co-financing to restart our country. Minister, do you remember how you started? With an interview with a television secretary who didn't know who his minister was. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That Undersecretary who is not at your side today, as Mr Salvini is not. The ministers on the stand are just the Movimento 5 Stars. Is that random? Minister, if you ask. We believe that we need a gesture of responsibility, in some ways also an authoritative gesture from you and forcefully, because we understand that you will not change the direction: you will not work for the Passante of Florence, you will not work for the TAV, you will not work for the interventions on the ports, you will not work to improve the road in our territory and will not work to unlock 27 billion euros that we have left you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He will not work to restart our economy, to get in touch and in contact with local and regional administrations to develop a great project to relaunch the country system. You are against all this and you have shown us that. On Genoa, then, Minister, you have a fault that is perhaps the most serious of all: you tried to take advantage of a terrible misfortune that struck our country to collect electoral consensus. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He mocked the Genoese, showing up one day in Genoa with a bunch of cards and saying that the decree had been approved: that decree arrived a month and a half later, Minister. [[Applause from the PD Group]] She made fun of all the Genoese. It is genuinely incomprehensible and unacceptable to each of us. Minister, you have to consider: it would have been desirable for you to take a step back, a step back, but there has not been one. We have to...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u37	Conclude, Senator Marcucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u38	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we have been tortured since yesterday. Allow us on important issues for the country to conclude our interventions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u39	President Marcucci, you have like all ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u40	Mr Marcucci (PD). We all aren't.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u41	You protested for two more minutes that I gave everyone yesterday. [[Protests from the PD Group]] She always protests when the others go out, but she doesn't look at what her group does that always breaks and I never interrupt. [[Many Senators of the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups stand up. Very lively applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). She always interrupts opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, you've already crossed over for more than a minute. You always point to the watch: make the same gesture for your Group too, okay? [[Very lively applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups. Protests from the PD Group]] Conclude, because I never interrupt, unlike what always happens: since I am in the Senate, at the expiration of the ten minutes my microphone has always been turned off. I do not do that, but I call for respect for the times and you must also observe them, as everyone claims they do. [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Conclude, then. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that you called me back before the ten minutes expired, because I have the stopwatch here with me. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Malpezzi shows the clock]] He's been talking for exactly 11 minutes. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). She just spoke for a minute. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let me finish. Then update your watch and stop. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). President, will you let me finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When the ten minutes pass, I'll ask you to turn off the microphone. Mr Marcucci (PD). I repeat that they had not yet passed. In any case, Mr President, let me say that Mr Toninelli does not need your help. Allow me. He doesn't need your help. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group]] I explained this yesterday and there is no need to repeat it. Mr Marcucci (PD). Let me finish, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Under the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to increase the time for what I believe. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You have to let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Read the Rules of Procedure. As a Holding Company, it has a duty to read it and to respect the rules. MIRABELLI (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Terminate your speech, Senator. [[Protests from the PD Group. Some PD Senators stand up]] Sit down, please. [[Senator Laus stands up and turns to the President.]] Sit down, I didn't give you the floor, sit down. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Senator Marcucci, finish. Mr Marcucci (PD). Thank you, Mr President. On this subject... president. The rules must be respected by everyone. Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u42	But let me talk. On this subject we will gladly return to the Conference of the Leaders, because the attitude of the Presidency is frankly unacceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]] However, Minister, the attitude of the majority forces towards you is obvious; it is also understood visually. The only reason the League will vote against our motion of no confidence is because there was a trade in yesterday's day, because you, denying your principles, wanted to save Salvini from a legitimate trial. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you! Mr Marcucci (PD). Aren't you gonna call them back, ma'am? Are they better? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I conclude my speech by saying that the Democratic Party Group will vote on both motions of distrust to Minister Toninelli and I want to mean our concern for the country by handing over to the Minister the list of 600 works that he has blocked, kneeling our country, assuming him and the Government that represents a serious responsibility for today and tomorrow of Italy. [[Many PD Senators stand up. Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Marcucci goes to Minister Toninelli and gives him a document. Comments by Senator Taverna and Group PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u45	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Laus (PD). Preemptive applause! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, I didn't give you the floor. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We plan well! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I would like to address the whole House to say that I would not be fighting too much with minorities; indeed, Mr Toninelli in the first place, but also all the members of the Government and us in the majority, we should thank the minorities, because in a few minutes the motions of mistrust that have been presented will turn into two motions of confidence to Mr Toninelli and to the whole Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] So we could say: As we like these minorities. You're working for us, good guys! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Everything that helps to compact the government will always be welcome and welcome to us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In order to return to the topic of the discussion, illustrated in the two motions under consideration, meanwhile we would like to thank the Minister because, being his Dicastery (of course you with all the Undersecretaries) responsible for the navigation until the docking of the boats to the port, it is evident that without the collaboration of his Ministry with that of minister Salvini probably we would not have managed to reach all those results on the topic of the immigration that you before has emphasized in his participation: less open ports, less landings, less dead. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Senator Rampi's comments.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Kidnapping people. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Consequently, we must use firmness on the issue of illegal immigration, because if we want to create a climate of tolerance and peaceful coexistence with respect to legal immigration, we must be equally intransigent towards illegal immigration and that is what both Minister Salvini and you, on the other hand, have carried out in the government since the beginning of this adventure. We understand that in politics the gratitude is not there, but as Matteo Salvini said yesterday intervening here things are done in two, so I thank the whole Government and you too. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] COLLINA (PD). Start talking about TAV! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Collina, let us continue. AIROLA (M5S). You wanted to make the Bridge on the Strait. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). She didn't call them back before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I always call everyone in an equal way. You're always careful about what others do, but then you don't want to be told anything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would ask my colleagues in the League Group to remain silent, because we always set an example as behavior and attitude; then if others want to interrupt, we are not afraid to let them speak. MIRABELLI (PD). Look at the footage. COLLINA (PD). Just talk about TAV. TAVERNA (M5S). He'll talk about what he wants. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is clear that the motions of mistrust are mostly focused on the issue of infrastructure; that is the subject of the accusations made by minorities to Minister Toninelli, as we have understood by reading the texts. We also remember, however, on the issue of infrastructure, because perhaps someone has forgotten it even if the Minister has mentioned it before, that in the aftermath of the immense tragedy of the collapse of the Morandi bridge the Minister has immediately activated himself together with the whole Government to cope with all the security situations and all the interventions. The Genoa decree has been launched that has allocated several resources for reconstruction and to help the city and not only. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] As well as in the economic maneuver, support measures have been introduced, because that was the main commitment that the Minister had to follow; and it has been followed with all the Dicastery impeccably, because now the demolition has begun and the times of reconstruction will be respected. This would already be a great novelty and a great change in the Italian political landscape in which on the times of realization of the works we are unfortunately - alas - a little 'deficit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] But I am not avoiding the famous issue of the TAV or other infrastructure. But, excuse me, I am saying this now because things have to be remembered: that this will to make champions on the subject of infrastructure and public works at all costs comes from one side of the minority, and that genuinely creates problems for me, remembering what you have done in the past. In fact, on the subject of the TAV, the bans could start two and a half years ago, when you were in the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Only that you were afraid to lose your votes on this issue and then you kept them there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Today, suddenly, you want an acceleration. But I also tell my colleagues in Forza Italia, who were then in opposition, at least for a period because we did not forget about Nazarene. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It does not seem to me that they have at all costs highlighted the need, with demonstrations or cartels, to start on this issue. The same thing, always on the infrastructures, we can go to recover with the financial of 2017, and I also tell you the number of the paragraph: 466. With this paragraph, in order to avoid deficit - because your attitude, undoubtedly obsequious towards European constraints, did not allow it - you blocked 16 billion resources that local authorities had and could use immediately to make investments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And you're coming here today to teach us about infrastructure? But please, a minimum of dignity and respect for what you did to the government! Instead we - since then the Consulta has rejected that paragraph - have unlocked the resources, so much so that the many small yards begin to leave on the territories. A circular was enough; it was enough to intervene in the budget maneuver; it was enough to raise the expenditure ceiling to avoid the famous bans compared to that code of farragic contracts that blocked so many works and that you did! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] How do you get angry with Minister Toninelli, you want to explain it to me, when most of the works that are still today are responsible for a bad management done in the past years? Instead we have unlocked these works, we have started them, also because we have a strategy a little different from the past. We know that not only the great works are important, that we want to achieve, but it is important to do what has never been done in Italy, in fact, what by removing the resources of the local authorities you have prevented from doing, that is, the maintenance of what is already there. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Otherwise we will come to this House to cry because a bridge has fallen! Let's look at the responsibilities. If we do not do the maintenance, the responsibility is all ours, so it is necessary to do these works and it is necessary to do what the country needs; therefore to fix what there is. Then the great works will also be done; of course, we asked to unlock them and so it will be. But we cannot think that the responsibility of this Government is to have blocked: we have not blocked anything, indeed we are going in the right direction, since yesterday the Government launched the famous decree-law unblocking-cantiers, which will give a further acceleration in this direction. In view of this, our vote is not a no to the motion of distrust, but a yes to the confidence that we will vote today towards Minister Toninelli and the whole Government. [[Many Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups stand up. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u48	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr Romeo's always intelligent speech has stimulated me and made me realize that politics is an art, because if he can defend Toninelli, it means that he is a classmate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And he thanked him for the policy of migrants: he thanked him for the fact that Minister Toninelli was de facto removed from his role by Salvini. That's why you thanked him. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] : because he did not make the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure but the "Minister of Migrants," the second of Salvini. Let me explain now, Mr President, why we are calling for the resignation of Mr Toninelli. You see, I'm embarrassed, because when a party asks you to speak in an explanation of vote, it's a great honor for each of us. For me, however, this is an embarrassment in this case, because of the history of my party, Mr President. In fact, my party - my colleague said well before me - has never made a motion of distrust; never, because we are guaranteed regardless. And I am embarrassed by my personal history - let me say this - because I had the honor and the burden of being President of a Region, so you can imagine how many times they have asked for my resignation. So there's a big embarrassment. We call for the resignation of Minister Toninelli not for many other reasons, of which we have discussed here (because perhaps the relative or the relative made a gift either for some investigations or for political reasons). We, for political reasons, would have every interest in Minister Toninelli continuing to be Minister, because it is all votes that make his party and this Government lose. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , and it's votes that gets the minority to take. Therefore, there is no political reason: we demand the resignation of Minister Toninelli for inability, inconsistency and ignorance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Ignorance in the sense of ignoring problems. I do not know - as I said in previous speeches - why Minister Toninelli was appointed Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Not because of his past experience: he has been a police officer, an insurer and has done a good job - I acknowledge this - in the last parliamentary term in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This was probably not his role as Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. But inexperience - we have other cases of personalities sitting there among ministers - is normal: we all had inexperience when we played important roles. Each of us in this House is talking about issues that he has never known in his life. How, then, is inexperience overcome? Studying [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , it deepens, we read, we ask: you are humble. So did Count, so did Di Maio, so did others: they study. Then we disagree, but at least they study, they deepen the files. You, Minister, absolutely never. There's an endless list of issues you haven't gone through. For example, speaking of Genoa, you, Minister - as my colleague who spoke earlier has said - came to this city three or four times saying that the decree-law would be ready a month after the misfortune: another six months have passed. You came to Genoa and you saw the Morandi bridge, so I ask you: how can you think that the bridge could be a multifunctional, livable, travelable, transitable structure? It's a 50-metre-high bridge. If you had in-depth information, Minister, you would know that the highways you have so vituperate have benefited from an increase in tolls since 1 July 2018 to build the Grunda. So at this moment the company Autostrade is getting unduly rich because, for this case, it takes the money deriving from the increase of the tolls for the Grunda, which is the Passante of Genoa. You, Minister, were talking about Bologna. Genoa is the busiest passer-by in Italy, as stated for twenty years by ANAS, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and by everyone. You stated a few days ago that you do not do so until you revoke the concession to Autostrade. That means he never will. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Why does he keep saying that he withdraws the concession to Autostrade when there is not one of his acts - tell me one - that goes in this direction? You boasted that you blocked the toll increases. Minister, I live in Liguria and tell you that the Milan-Serravalle toll has increased by 2.62%, that of SALT by 1.82%, that of the Autostrada dei Fiori by 2.22%, that of Autocisa by 1.86%. The blocked tolls you are boasting of - I am referring to 86% of the motorway branch - will be subject to increases from 1 July next. If you will be able to stop these increases from 1 July I will thank you, with all the honesty that distinguishes us. So don't boast about things you have no title and no merit. Let's get back to our business. You spoke about the things you did and spoke about the migratory wave first. I mentioned before that you did not become the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, but Salvini's succube. You bragged about the TAV and said you had no prejudice. Minister, you and your colleague Di Maio have always said, however and wherever you would ever have made the TAV. Consistency should lead to: Do you know what I'm saying? Who cares about the cost-income, the TAV doesn't work. Period! Let's think about something else. This would be consistent, not to name four to five experts all knownly opposed to the TAV from the first moment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If you had been a serious minister, since we have fantastic universities in the field of infrastructure, you would have asked them to appoint four to five experts. That makes a serious minister. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister, I do not ask you to resign for the laughing on the bridge, the photos or the fact that in August you were on vacation (we are): I ask you to resign for inability and why you do not study. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister, please go further because - as far as I am concerned - your Ministry is the most important, because the future of Italy can be represented by tourism and infrastructure. Minister, if you had deepened you would know that the Italian ports guarantee to the State 10 billion euros of excise duty. Repeat, 10 billion. And do you know how much the state gives the ports with its ministry? 50 million euros. 10 billion versus 50 million. Do you know how much North ports (I think, for example, Marseille ports) receive? They get 50%. Ergo, in Italy it would be EUR 3 billion. You, on the other hand, are 50 million euros. But what are you bragging about, Minister? You are the denial of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'll tell you with sympathy. Nobody's mad at her. The comedians who make fun of her aren't mad at her. She's mad at us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Giro (FI-BP). Bravo! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I don't know if I made myself clear. If Confindustria says you're a disgrace, if the editor of a newspaper like "La Stampa" says you're gonna talk, if Grillo says you don't shoot on Toninelli because it's like shooting on the Red Cross, it's not me, it's not Forza Italia, it's not PD. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] By the way, we made the Nazarene deal, but you made the deal with the Movimento 5 Stars, Remember that. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups. Comments of Senator Romeo]] It's a shame! [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. We tabled the motion of no confidence before the last and resounding incident (let's call it that). Speaking of which, Minister, I see you're playing with your phone. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I would be grateful - but I ask all the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars - if you searched Google for the word "Toninelli". Try it, then I'll tell you what it means in a few seconds. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I do not want to ask you to google your phone, but I have seen the Minister playing with his phone. Let's see what comes out. AIROLA (M5S). Maybe we put bunga bunga! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u49	Senator Airola, you are admonished. Senator Airola, you're censored. I do not allow any of these expressions in this House. He's censored. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all made mistakes. For me the most serious mistake is incompetence and ignorance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pinotti]] That said, we come to the last accident. The Minister has accepted an interview on Tg2 Motors. So, it wasn't a sneak but wanted interview, with a camera placed in front of his car and one behind. Before going to do an interview I too prepare like everyone else, but it is not conceivable that the Minister could have said and done what he then said and did, that is, buy a diesel car. He, along with the Movimento 5 Stars, who is the advocate... president. Get it done. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The rules apply to everyone and to her. The minister said he doesn't have the resources to buy an electric car. I went to see (I mean these things): the Jeep Compass that bought the Minister costs about, depending on the versions, from 25,000 to 30,000 euros. With the same money or less, he could have bought an electric car like, for example (I don't want to advertise) the Smart ForFour, a Toyota or a Honda CR-V. They're all hybrid and electric. So don't offend most Italians by saying they have no resources. Mr President, I will end by saying that the bonus malus is a drama for the automotive sector: dozens and dozens of dealers will be closed. Today is March 21st. This decree entered into force on 1 March. The malus is paid from 1 March; the bonus is not yet there because you can not connect with the Ministry because it does not give answers because they know nothing. That's what Toninelli does. The result of the Google search that people talk about is "Toninelli gaffe". Toninelli gaffe is the first occurrence. Toninelli, please resign for Italy. Have a whisper of dignity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. Otherwise, I have to interrupt you. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr President, at this point we shall be voting strangely but with sincere will on the PD's motion of distrust and logically on ours as well. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u53	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have demonstrated and is well aware of the respect I have for the office of the President of the Senate and for his person, but I have difficulty in accepting that a colleague is officially warned for having mentioned two words in the Treccani vocabulary as "bunga bunga". (Many Senators from the M5S Group and some from the Group [[L-SP-PSd'Az get off their feet. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] BERNINI (FI-BP). Shame! Patuanelli (M5S). If you allow yourself in this Chamber to call an ignorant Minister of the Republic, I do not see why you should censor a colleague for using a term contained in the Treccani vocabulary. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] BERNINI (FI-BP). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u54	Senator Patuanelli, you know very well that the intervention that Senator Airola did while Senator Biasotti made his explanation of vote was offensive. He passed through the hemicycle addressing Senator Biasotti - I saw him from here - by saying these words. So I stick to my idea that he's censored. Patuanelli (M5S). You have every right to remain of your idea and I of mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please give your explanation of vote. Patuanelli (M5S). Of course, in the time and in the terms that I have allowed myself, even as Chairman of the Group. Giro (FI-BP). Halley's comet! Halley's comet! [[Vibrating protests from the M5S Group]] Make your explanation of vote, Senator Patuanelli. Senator Giro, get in your seat! Giro (FI-BP). Halley's comet! Patuanelli (M5S). Is it not admonished in this case? Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I spoke, no one else has to intervene! [[Senator Giro from his own skull makes the sign of handcuffs. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Senator Giro, he's censored! The sign of handcuffs in this House does not do that! [[Applause from the PD Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). Hunt him. Mr Verducci (PD). Shame on you! Hunt Giarrusso from the Group! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, sit down and stop. Mr Verducci (PD). Tell Giarrusso! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, stop it! Senator Patuanelli, proceed with the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u55	Mr President, I could take very little time to make my explanation of vote because Minister Toninelli has made clear what has been the activity of the Government, of his Ministry and of the Undersecretaries and I, who have the good fortune to work very often, being also a member of the 8th Commission, together with his Ministry and the Minister, I look instead at the commitment and ability to study and deepen the dossiers, the many open dossiers that we have found in this country and that we must carry on today. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It seems quite clear to me that the debate that took place in this House over the two motions of mistrust that mark the idyllic continuation between Forza Italia and the Democratic Party, a marriage that continues to make us happy... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group. Protests from the PD Group]] In this debate there has been talk of major works and infrastructure, in essence there has been talk of a concept of development which is actually a misconception of development. Doing works just to do them is a misconception. I have heard of a happy decline because perhaps, yes out of ignorance, one does not know the concept of circular economy, which is another thing. [[Protests from FI-BP and PD Groups]] MALAN (FI-BP). Walk! GALLONE (FI-BP). Study! Study! Patuanelli (M5S). I believe that today we cannot talk about those great works at the same time and then applaud Greta Thunberg when he does his demonstrations, because either we respect the environment or we talk about useless works. The two things together can't be done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Honesty! Honesty! Patuanelli (M5S). The first idea of this Government is to make our citizens spend their money with respect, analyzing the effects that a particular expenditure has on the public and on all the investments that are made for which to make cost-benefit analyses with third parties and not with the proposers is an essential element to see how to spend the money of the Italians; otherwise we continue to do things that do not serve the Country and continue to increase the public debt. This is what happened: we have done useless works that then we are not even able to maintain, as clearly shows the infrastructure system of the country that is in dilapidated conditions because a penny has never been spent for the right maintenance. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] BITI (PD). Let's all walk. Patuanelli (M5S). When we talk about development, we always talk about material infrastructure, but it is clear that this Government is also taking a very important step towards the immaterial infrastructure of the country, towards new technologies, towards sustainable development, towards all those things that have forced this country to be backward compared to other European countries. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] and have also limited the ability of our companies to make a technological leap, which is fundamental. We have an entrepreneurial fabric that is not made by large companies, but by a fabric of small, medium and micro-enterprises and it is in the direction of that economic system that we must therefore move the actions of government. It makes little sense to talk about EUR 10 billion works that have an economic impact, because our companies will not be called to carry out those works. We need to do, as Senator Romeo also said, many small works; we have done it with the 400 million euros for the small municipalities [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , unlocking the leftovers of administration of the virtuous Municipalities. These are the works that can give access to our business system. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I think, therefore, that in addition to this reasoning, which gives an overall picture of the infrastructure system, I cannot help but talk about the TAV; I note that one is not even able to see that if a noun is male - the train - the article cannot be female. The TAV was never the link between Kiev and Lisbon, because that work was not planned, either on the one hand or on the other; if anything, it will unite Hungary with Spain. Ignorance about the project is also shown on this point. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr Laus (PD). Modify the law! Patuanelli (M5S). The commitment of this Executive contracted in the Government contract is to review the work in full, and that is what Minister Toninelli, together with the President of the Council, is doing rightfully and in advance with France and then with European partners. I am sure that the solution will be found, because it seems clear to me that in the end there is a narrative plan that wants to divide a majority that instead is united and is governing this country very well. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Having said that, Mr President, it seems clear to me that the Group that I am honored to chair will vote firmly for the confidence of Minister Toninelli and for the work of the Government. I heard from a colleague that being Toninelli today is difficult; I say that being Toninelli today is having a straight back. (The Senators of the [[Group PD stand up. Live]] applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u58	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I shall abstain from voting on the motions, even though my Group considers it correct, in the present situation, not to pretend. The abstention, in fact, if implemented by the whole Group, could mean a sort of adherence to the behaviour of the Government and the Minister in particular, and that is not what I mean. On the other hand, I will abstain in order to strengthen a concept: it would be too easy to assign responsibility only to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. If I'm not mistaken today, I see only the President-in-Office of the Council... [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] Yeah, there's the League, too. I said I only see prominent exponents of the Movimento 5 Stars [[. (Comments from the M5S Group.]] Let me talk. What's pressing me... The Minister of Agriculture has arrived. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The ministers Centinario and Bongiorno nod to the speaker from the benches of the government.]] The Minister of Agriculture, who is certainly of great importance, was not there before and has arrived now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] What I am interested in is not the presence here; I would like to point out that the government as a whole deserves distrust. In fact, yesterday, dear fellow senators, without the vote of Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia, the Government would have fallen by not having reached the prescribed number of senators to accept the proposal of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity. That's right, count the numbers. Numbers are numbers. LANZI (M5S). But where is the dissent, President? CASTALDI (M5S). We know you give the numbers! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). You didn't get to 161. There is little to do, you no longer have the numbers to govern. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] That is the reality. That is the reality of this House today. Mr President, I would like to welcome your way of presiding, even for stigmatizing a phrase that could perhaps have been baptistic. He did very well, because it is true, dear colleague, that the expression bunga bunga exists in the vocabulary, but then there are also the terms stadium and handcuffs: you have to Remember that. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] It is not enough for certain words to exist in the vocabulary so that they can be spoken at all times and at all times. That is the fundamental fact. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] LANZI (M5S). Where's the dissent, ma'am? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). President, thank you and I hope that Italy will soon have a Government that does not need tricolor relief to exist. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u59	In accordance with Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion No 84, presented by Senator Marcucci and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Siri is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Siri. PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 12.15 p.m. - and then take over the presidency at 12.15 a.m.) - 12.59 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u62	FAZONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to correct my vote in favour rather than against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the secretary senators to write down Senator Fazzone's correct vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u65	Mr Totaro (FdI). Mr President, I would like to correct my vote in favour of abstaining. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the secretary senators to write down Senator Totaro's correct vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u68	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I rise to point out that unfortunately I was wrong to vote: my vote in favour was actually an abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u69	The Presidency takes note of this. The senators: Alderisi, Alfieri, Astorre Barachini, Barboni, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bressa Caliendo, Cangini, Casini, Causin, Cesaro, Cirinna, Collina, Beginini, Conzatti, Craxi, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, Dal Mas, Damiani, De Falco, De Poli Errani Fantetti, Faraone, Fazzone, Fedeli, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floris Galliani, Galliani, Mangalavini, Garavini, Marcucci, Ghedini, Giammanco, Ginetti, Giro, Grimani Alfimani Laus, Lonardo Magorno, Malpegni, Mangialavori, Marcucci, Marcucci, Ghedini, Gimianco, Gianco, Gianco, Giammanco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gianco, Gino, Gino, Gino, Gino, Gino, Gino, Gino, Gino. The senators are abstaining: Balboni, Bertacco Calandrini, Ciriani De Bertoldi, De Bonis, Durnwalder Fazzolari Garnero Santanchè Iannone La Pietra Rauti, Ruspandini Stancanelli, Steger Totaro Unterberger, Urso Zaffini. (Senators De Petris and Martelli declare that they do not participate in the vote). I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 84, of individual distrust of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, presented by Senator Marcucci and other senators: [[Senators present 283 Senators voting 280 Majority 131 Favorables 102 Contrari 159 Absent 19]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u70	In accordance with Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion 91, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Conzatti is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Conzatti. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Alderisi, Alfieri, Astorre Balboni, Barachini, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bernini, Bertacco, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bress Calandrini, Caliendo, Cangini, Carbone, Causin, Cesaro, Ciriani, Cirinna, Collina, Beginini, Conzatti, Craxi, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Falco, De Poli Fantetti, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floris Galliani, Malanelle, Garavini, Gasparri, Ghedini, Giammanco, Girmani Iannone La Pietra, Laus, Lonardo Magorino, Malando, Malagini, Malagni, Malpezzini, Marinia Manferi, Marini, Gianco, Gianco, Ginetti Senators say no: Abate, Orto Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bongiorno, Borghesi, Bottici, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Piccarella Pulderoli, Countryside, Campari, Candura, Croatti, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Centinario, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Crucioli De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Di Nicola, Fusco Gallicchio, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Mandrizzi, Evangelista Faggi, Fede, Ferrara, Ferrero, Floridia, Fuscolent, Fusco Gallicchio, Donato, Giazza, Giaruti, Donno, Giaruti, Donno, Giaruti Loruti, Giaruti Loruti, Giarunato, Giarunato Senators are abstaining: De Bonis, Durnwalder La Russa Steger Unterberger. (Senators De Petris and Martelli declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote on motion 91, of individual distrust of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators: [[Senators present 275 Senators voting 272 Majority 134 Favorables 110 Contrari 157 Absent 5]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u71	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Health, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Briziarelli has the right to explain the question 3-00719 on the guarantee of intervention time in health care for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u72	Mr President, Minister, the question concerns the closure of the hospital and of the first aid, obviously linked to it, of Città della Pieve in Umbria, but it has a national interest because it involves, potentially and indirectly, the whole hospital network of emergency-emergency, as is easy to deduce from the facts. The Regional Councillor of the Umbria Region has, in implementation of Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, since March 1, 2017, the closure of all hospital activities, including first aid, in Città della Pieve. On 24 April 2017, the Municipality of Montegabbione, whose citizens benefited from the services suppressed due to the territorial proximity, resorted to the Umbria TAR and against the local health unit Umbria n. 1 and against the Umbria Region (as against interested party) for the annulment, after suspensive, of the aforementioned resolution. On 7 February 2018, the TAR, by judgment No 98/2018, accepted the appeal, in particular with regard to the contested closure of the first aid, recognising the supreme interest in the right to health and ordering its reopening. The Region subsequently appealed to the Council of State and, in the judgment, the Council of State enters into the merit of the golden hour, that fundamental hour, the so-called golden hour that determines, in many cases, the salvation of the patient by averting, precisely, those that are considered the avoidable deaths. On this, everyone believes that the hour departs from the moment of ambulance intervention until arrival at the nearest garrison. The judgment, on the contrary, takes into account the time since the ambulance is already present at the place of the facts. A possible interpretation of this type could constitute a dramatic precedent, especially for all those areas of particular discomfort that are, however, recognized by Ministerial Decree No 70, and for which it would be possible to intervene in derogation from the provisions of the decree itself. Therefore, the question is intended to know the Minister's position and to know whether it is not necessary to intervene on the ministerial tables in order to give an unambiguous and effective version of how the intervention time should be calculated, which is obviously one of the fundamental aspects, not the only, but certainly decisive, also in relation to the services offered by the principals where the emergency-emergency means leads the patient. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator for allowing me, starting from a specific episode, to clarify a more general issue, that of emergency-emergency interventions, which really is a qualifying trait for measuring the efficiency of the National Health Service. In this context, it must be said at once that intervention times are a key indicator for monitoring the system. The golden hour, however, is not the only parameter to which it is necessary to refer. In fact, I remember that the concept of golden hour was used, for the first time, in the field of trauma assistance, for which the timeliness of health intervention affects, without any doubt, the chances of survival. It should be pointed out that this concept, in any case, does not refer exclusively to the time interval of sixty minutes: rather, it aims to ensure, more generally, the best timeliness of intervention, which is identified, with different variations, in the definition of the three time-dependent networks provided for by Ministerial Decree No 70 of 2015: the trauma network, the acute myocardial infarction network (IMA) and the stroke network. Moreover, the objective of timeliness is not only about the journey times between garrisons on the territory, but rather about the ability to establish a first contact of the patient with qualified health professionals, if necessary also in the pre-hospital area. The organization of time-dependent networks, as provided for in Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, obviously takes these principles into account: in fact, it defines the system organized for emergency management so that the integration of emergency-emergency intervention systems with the territory and with hospitals organized with different assistance complexity is guaranteed. The same judgment cited in the question, moreover, clearly reaffirms this principle, as it specifies that the journey times must be assessed not only in relation to the principals on the territory, but also in relation to the location and functionality of service 118. Having made these clarifications, and considered, therefore, that the decision of the Council of State does not require the need to adopt further interpretative clarifications, it follows that in order to ensure indeed the timeliness of assistance in the field of emergency-emergency, the task of the Ministry of Health is much more complex than that resulting from the mere analysis of the journey times between garrisons on the territory. Precisely on the basis of this awareness, I intend, then, to ensure that the Ministry of Health, through the monitoring and verification tables of the aforementioned Ministerial Decree No 70, is able to develop an action of control and impulse in order to improve these networks at regional level and development throughout the national territory, as well as to analyze any possible "new fact" - whether determined by new scientific evidence or by circumstances such as that represented by the questioner - in order to prepare any subsequent initiative that ensures the homogeneity of emergency-emergency assistance on the national territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Briziarelli may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u74	Mr President, I thank the Minister and I am partially satisfied. I am, of course, satisfied with the recognition of the national significance of the issue and in three particular respects. The first is that we recognize the scientific value of golden hour; we even go further, saying that the time of intervention is fundamental, but not sufficient. Secondly, I take note of the aspect of the allocations, which are a fundamental note in this respect. Finally, in the third place, I am pleased with the availability, through the tables, to evaluate the case of this case and any news. In this sense, I would like to stress that, of the two, the one: or there is an interpretation, I mean not mistaken, but partial, which, moreover, in the matter of species, takes into account documentation from ASL, which provides the relative times - I repeat - to the presence on the spot and not to the departure, thus exceeding also the time of ninety minutes for the attainment of the hubs and not only the sixty minutes of the proximity to the first intervention; or the interpretative criteria are to be changed because in contrast, in fact, with the constitutional principles already recognized by the TAR and which the Council of State takes into consideration, with regard to the supreme right to health as regards emergency-emergency. I reserve the right, therefore, to provide the Ministry with all the documentation so that it can be examined in the tables.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u75	Senator Boldrini has the right to explain the question 3-00715 on the performance of professional traineeships for medical graduates, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u76	Mr President, Minister, I make a brief premise: 16,700 specialists less in 2025. This is yesterday's communication from ANAAO Assomed, which shows that there are few young people compared to pensioners and those who will ask to retire even at 100. This will certainly create disservices in the national health system, with great criticalities especially in the regions of Sicily and Piedmont. Therefore, it will not be enough for neospecialists to replace those who retire and the balance between those who enter and those who leave from 2018 to 2025 will result in these huge figures. Let us now turn to the illustration of our question, which is clearly linked to what I have just said. Let's talk about the development of professional traineeships for medical graduates referred to in Ministerial Circular No. 9498 of 18 March 2019, which has just been sent to universities and indicates the time for the course and which will give the opportunity to take the necessary state exams to access specialty schools to students enrolled in the academic year 2017-2018. Unfortunately, students who will graduate in the academic year 2018-2019, which will run from June 2019 until March 2020, do not yet know anything. There is therefore no certainty of what will happen, which will inevitably create confusion, in addition to the fact that the examination of admission to the specialization school and, consequently, the internship, the state exam and the specialization school are steps that must be aligned. So we don't know anything yet, because among other things the admission exam to the specialization school took place eight months late: it was usually November, while this year it ended in July 2018, so last year. This misalignment will certainly slow down the entry into specialty schools and thus create a training funnel that unfortunately will only make the situation worse. For the academic year 2017-2018, compared to 16,046 graduates and qualified candidates the total number of specialization contracts put out to ban was 6,934. So there is a problem not only with funds, which I believe will be very important, but also with the alignment of all these phases that I have been talking about. We therefore ask the Minister to know what direction he intends to take in order to find a solution to this worsening situation, especially for the national health system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u77	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u78	Mr President, I answer the question of course, not the premises; then the questioner, if he will, will be able to present one on the premises, so I will reply well, because this Government is the one that has put more specialization grants than the previous one: you have had five years to solve the problem of specialization schools and you have not done so. Having said that, I answer the question. MALPEZZI (PD). You have to answer! GRILLO, Minister for Health. I should like to make it clear at once that the question raised in this question concerns the exclusive powers of the Ministry of Education, University and Research - and not of the undersigned - with which I am going to respond. With the circular of 18 March 2019 the MIUR has intended to allow medical graduates to carry out and overcome the practical evaluation in time for admission to the State examination, the date of which will be set shortly by special order of that Ministry. The MIUR also wanted to point out that it will shortly communicate to all students the modalities of carrying out the next exams and in particular if the questions administered will be extracted from a computer archive periodically updated or prepared by that Ministry using a specific national committee of experts. The aforementioned Dicastery, in any case, has given ample assurance that the ministerial order in question will be adopted within a reasonable time to enable the next examination session to be held. However, I must make it clear with determination that the problems related to the timing of the next session of the state exams, which, as has been said, is the intention of the MIUR to fix at the most, will not require access to the competition for health area specialization schools. I remember in fact that it is a requirement of access to this competition the possession of the master's degree in medicine and surgery, while that of the certification is required only at the time of the beginning of the didactic activities, usually planned for the beginning of November. With regard to the competences of the Ministry of Health, I intend to assure you that with regard to the problem of the deficiency of specialists, which, as you know, has already been the subject of specific interventions by the Government, these days are in place the appropriate interlocations with the competent offices of the MIUR, which, I am sure, will produce shared solutions in order to avoid the training funnel referred to in the question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Malpezzi has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u79	Minister, you have missed an opportunity today, I tell you from the heart, because you are not here to do us a pleasure, but you are being questioned and it is your duty to come and answer the questions that everyone raises to you. It is not in fact questions, Minister, that the Democratic Party and colleagues who are here today are putting it "spokesman" (as you like this term), but it is precisely the students of the medical faculties. The fact that the Minister of Health is not interested in this possible chaos and perhaps to talk with Minister Bussetti about the fact that so far no clear information has been given about the specialization schools and above all about the so-called traineeships, with a clear delay that will stop the situation, to me honestly worries. Secondly, Minister: the Offices considered that the question we asked was a question for you, because we asked you how you intend to solve the problem. The answer, Minister, had to be: "By increasing scholarships and increasing posts." [[Applause from the PD Group]] But this is something you do not want to do, because you have only done so in an extremely partial way, but there will also be a way to highlight the data between what the government that preceded you and you did. You'll have a chance to prove it. The only answer he could give was one and clear: I will increase the grants, but here he did not say so. Then you know what we say to you, Minister? We continue to be concerned for a reason: just because you were not careful to start matters as a government (in the end you always assume the responsibilities as a government, you told us here in the Chamber even yesterday; it is never the responsibility of the individual, but they are always governmental decisions), the children who will find themselves doing the post-graduate internship together with the students who are still preparing for the graduation, therefore ante graduam, according to what should be the new norm. That's the funnel you didn't want to answer to at all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But you will have to tell us sooner or later - and you will have to tell the kids - how you intend to limit this overcrowding, which means less quality, less security and less opportunity to prepare, as is their right. It means denying a real opportunity to all those kids you didn't want to answer in this situation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u80	Senator Castellone has the right to explain the question 3-00718 on the adoption of the Health Pact 2019-2021, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u81	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last budget law has established that for the years 2020-2021 the access of the regions to the increase in the level of financing of national health needs is conditional upon the conclusion, by 31 March 2019, of the Health Pact 2019-2021 that includes measures to plan and improve the quality of care and services provided and cost efficiency. On 13 February 2019, the Regions drew up a programmatic document on the main themes that should characterize the Health Pact, asking the Government to: provide for a review of the mechanisms of control of processes and costs, identifying significant indicators of results on the health status of individual regional health systems, to address the governance of the National Health System, the roles and relations between the institutional actors involved (i.e. the Government, Regions, AIFA, Agenas, the Higher Institute of Health) and to put at the heart of the action the training and valorization of human capital, providing new methodologies for defining organisational and training needs consistent with the objectives of national and regional health planning. We fully share, Minister, his vision that the National Health System represents a milestone in the development and social cohesion of the country and it is therefore necessary that health is placed at the centre of the actions and the agenda of government, in order to provide citizens with effective, innovative and qualitatively adequate health services from North to South, pursuing the sustainability of the system through the efficiency of their organizational and production planning processes. However, it is a fact that health is the sector of the public sector that has constantly seen its level of financing fall in proportion to GDP, also serving the will of previous governments to transfer to the regions the difficulties to support public policies in periods of financial crisis, despite many studies we have indicated, on the contrary, that precisely in the critical phases of the economic cycle the investment in the health sector is able to produce short-term effects and, therefore, contribute significantly to the economic recovery. In the light of these observations, we ask you, Minister, what action you intend to take to implement the new Health Pact 2019-2021, with a view to the deadline of 31 March, and how you intend to take action in the Health Pact to ensure the principle of equality of citizens in access to care to reduce current inequalities in health care between North and South. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u82	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators very much, because they allow me, however briefly, to explain the principles underlying the government's action on the path that will lead - I trust as soon as possible - to the adoption of the next Health Pact. First of all, it must be said that the regions have provided in recent years numerous tests of institutional collaboration, reaching the improvement of many indicators of efficiency and contributing loyally to the maneuvers of public finances. However, although the National Health Service has guaranteed substantial universalism, it seems to have betrayed certain expectations, first of all that of reducing geographical disparities. Both the Government and the Regions are now well aware that they have to face the new challenges of the National Health Service with a necessarily innovative approach. I trust, then, that there will be agreement on some qualifying points which briefly list. Firstly, the Pact, in the logic of exploiting their respective roles and responsibilities, will have to provide for a review of the analytical control mechanisms for the processes and costs of inputs, as well as the identification of few, synthetic and significant indicators of economic results, in order to assess the state of health of each regional system. On the other hand, failure to comply with these indicators will result in the full responsibility of the Region and its governing bodies. Regions in difficulty, in any case, will have to be assured new forms of support and support. In a renewed framework of mutual responsibility I am absolutely aware that the Government will finally have to ensure a framework of financial resources that cannot be modified unilaterally for the next three to five years. The certainty of resources is undoubtedly an indispensable element for the correct planning of interventions in the regional areas. I shall conclude with what, in many ways, I consider to be the main qualifying factor of the Pact. In fact, it will have to return to the center the training, the qualification and the valorization of the human capital, providing new methodologies for defining the organizational and formative needs, as well as the simplification of the access of the professionals and the operators to the National Health Service in order to obtain an effective and timely coverage of the same requirements that, as we know, turn out to be in serious suffering, On these last aspects, however, let me say with pride that the Government, before and regardless of the next Health Pact, as Parliament knows, has already done so much and has still committed itself to doing so. To confirm this allow me to mention, among the things already done, the plan for the reduction of the waiting lists, with the destination finally of considerable economic resources and above all - the news is of today - the green light of the Regions to a legislative hypothesis that exceeds the anachronistic constraint of the assumptions with the consequent unblocking of the turnover: two actions that, I want to say, have been realized thanks to the full and loyal collaboration between State and Regions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u83	Senator Castellone has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u84	Minister, I am fully satisfied with your reply. I would also like to point out that the overcoming of the hiring block, which you have just announced and which we have just read about today, is a sign of great hope for us, especially because it will also interest the regions on their return plan and we know how much these are the ones who need more staff to finally reach the essential levels of assistance and thus allow access to care for all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u85	Senator De Bertoldi has the right to explain the question 3-00717 on the different ways of implementing a flat tax for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u86	Minister, we are also used to discussing tax issues in the Finance Committee, and you know how much the Brothers of Italy Group cares about tax issues in relation to the development and growth of the country. Our question within today's question time therefore focuses on flat tax, or rather flat tax, since more flat tax we must and can talk about in the light of what has happened. In particular, we are proud to have been the first depositaries in the Italian Parliament on 31 July last year of a draft law on flat tax and we are waiting for it to be discussed in the Commission as soon as possible. You see, Minister, you, your majority and your government have sold as a flat tax for the self-employed included in the last budget law. I would like to ask you what you think of the fact that out of about 4 million VAT matches, only 320,000, so just under 8%, can now benefit from the flat tax that you say was made for self-employment. Minister, with respect to the proposal for a flat tax for 2020 for all employees, which we are talking about these days, for all employees, I would like to know whether you intend to address the same niche as taxpayers, as is the case for self-employed workers, or perhaps you want to apply it to that 45% of Italian taxpayers who today pay only 2.8% of the IRPEF and who therefore probably pay less than the 15% provided for by the flat tax today. On the other hand, I would like to ask you a precise reply on what you intend to say about our draft law, namely that incremental flat tax which, in fact, today is the only measure that can be implemented in line with budgetary obligations and the European agreements on the deficit-GDP ratio. Our flat tax of 15%, Minister, concerns incremental income and would allow to create a stimulus to the productivity of Italian workers, which would certainly have a reduced tax and therefore incentive; it would also bring out that submerged one that is estimated by the Bank of Italy in a billion euros. I would therefore like to know what you think of these arguments. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u87	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u88	Mr President, with the document under consideration, the questioning senators, in calling for a proposal from the last legislature to introduce the introduction of a single reduced rate on pay and income increases received to a greater extent than in the previous year, ask to know what the Government's intentions are with regard to the introduction of an incremental flat tax extended to the entire taxpayers' audience. It should be recalled that the 2019 Budget Act has strengthened and improved the flat-rate regime. All persons engaged in business, arts or professions benefit from a tax regime characterised by the forfectation of the tax base, the replacement taxation of Irpef and IRAP at a rate of 15% and are excluded from the scope of VAT and enjoy significant accounting simplifications and in terms of compliance. In the light of the novelties introduced by the 2019 Budget Act, from 2020 around 1.5 million people will benefit from the above-mentioned preferential schemes, i.e. a crowd of taxpayers representing around 40% of all VAT-code holders. This is obviously the start of a reform process that is consistent with the guidelines contained within the government contract and according to a logic of progressive implementation of the reforms, made in this way compatible with the constraints of public finance. That being said, it will be when the next budgetary manoeuvre is prepared, as in the previous one, that the various options for additional tax reform can be clarified. Other proposals, such as the one referred to by the interrogating senators, will also be discussed. In conclusion, with regard to the extension of the flat tax, I would like to point out here, as I have already said in other circumstances, that no official estimate has been made at the moment of specific reform proposals. At the Ministry of Economy and Finance, since July (I don't know before) many analyses have been carried out concerning various hypotheses of tax reform. This is an ex ante policy evaluation exercise, which, in addition to referring to the content of the measures, also covers updates of microsimulation models. These activities are fundamental to create the conditions and the knowledge base useful to estimate the impact of government measures, but certainly cannot be used medialy to think that the Government is actually estimating one measure or the other. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bertoldi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u89	Minister, I appreciate your openness to our bill and the Government's intention to assess a measure to the best of its ability to be applied to all taxpayers and - I repeat - can really give a stimulus to those who want to work more, to those who want to produce more and therefore be rewarded with lower taxation on incremental income, and at the same time make the black, even from a monetary point of view, the black, the black. I appreciate your understanding and your openness. We are available and open to any cooperation with the majority, where we move in order to really stimulate the economy and thus reduce an unacceptable tax burden today. Of course, being at the door of the DEF, we hope, as Brothers of Italy, that the Government can already tell us something more in the DEF, entering more on the merit of the projects that will then be translated into the budget laws for 2020. So, Minister, I appreciate your openness, but above all I really hope that the majority and the entire Parliament will soon share these projects for the growth of our country. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u90	We greet students and professors of the Scientific High School "Enrico Fermi" in Massa, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u91	Senator Perosino has the right to explain the question 3-00721 on the size and method of financing a single tax rate, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u92	Minister, still on the flat tax. You know that this topic was in Forza Italia's electoral programme, but it was expected to be 23% for all and the no tax area under 12,000 euros, with progressive deductions, according to the dictates of the Constitution. Clearly the flat tax has a cost, which was estimated at 50 billion euros, to be met, especially in the first and second years (depending on the projections, from the third year should give positive results), with the reduction of tax discounts and greater control of the expenditure (there still is). Attention then to the public debt and above all to the spread: I say that it would be appropriate to avoid too easy statements that can shift the calculation of interest by hundreds of millions and even billions of euros. In addition, escape recovery for emergence. From the flat tax would come - you recognized - more investment and more consumption. For now it has started with a limited number, as my colleague said, at a rate of 15%. Minister Salvini said that it will be done for everyone at 15% and - as I understand it - 20% more than EUR 80,000. The Minister for South Lezzi told a radio that, as it costs EUR 60 billion and there is no money, it cannot be done. Yesterday, undersecretary Siri said that we would do for families up to 50,000 euros and that it costs 12 billion euros. Is there any disagreement between allies? Are there any different views? The numbers - you know that, Minister - are stubborn, neutral and sooner or later - it is only a matter of time - present the bill. We at Forza Italia agree, except for understanding (say yesterday), on flat tax, which is a bit difficult and yet to be implemented and tested; it should be studied thoroughly because it is truly revolutionary, but it takes a shock on the economy. We therefore ask with our question whether it is to be adopted, at what cost and where it is to be expected that the funds will be raised. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u93	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u94	Mr President, with this document, the interrogating senators are asking to know what the Government's intentions are regarding the introduction of a flat tax, what the costs would be and how the necessary resources would be found. I apologize from the beginning for some inevitable repetitions. First of all I want to remind you that flat tax is to be declined to the present and not to the future, because with the budget law for 2019 the Government intervened, gradually, to reduce the tax burden on the income of individuals and businesses. The measure provides that business operators and self-employed persons may opt for a facilitated scheme, at a rate of 15%, together with other tax simplifications. Forgive the repetition: I always remember that, in the light of these innovations, about 40% of all VAT holders will benefit from the above-mentioned schemes. These tax measures already taken are part of the reform action that the Government intends to pursue throughout the legislature. This action is based on a logic of progressive implementation of the government programme, in compliance with public finance objectives. In the preparation of the next budgetary manoeuvre, other assumptions of tax reform will be evaluated, evidently inspired by the idea of flat tax, which then has to take concrete forms, with precise assumptions and draft laws. I would like to take this opportunity, perhaps now unnecessary, to point out that no estimate has been made of the impact of a possible extension of the flat tax, apropos of the figures circulating in the media. I repeat that, since last July, the Ministry of Economy and Finance conducts analyses and exercises of simulation of the impact of tax reform, as is also necessary, in order to be able to evaluate any concrete hypothesis of reform, at the moment when it is concretely placed to the attention of the political decision-maker. So, using results and exercises for media speculation, evidently, is just misleading. Of course, I am only referring to what is circulating in the press, when I talk about media speculation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the right to speak in response to Senator Perosino for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u95	Minister, I wish you good luck - because on numbers we need luck - to the Government and Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The numbers say that the deficit in financial maneuvering and budgetary law is 2.04 percent of GDP and therefore, by calculating this rate of €1,750 billion of GDP, we have about €35 billion of higher public debt, plus interest. However, there is the scenario that we have been facing since yesterday, since the rating agency Fitch said that the increase in GDP will be 0.1% and therefore there will be less tax revenue. The safeguard clauses "watch" us, because time is approaching and the income of citizenship is a cost immediately. I would have liked to adopt the theory of helicopter money, which went down immediately, but it was nice: throwing money out of the helicopter, so whoever takes it first can spend it and increase consumption. These costs, including the so-called 100 quota, which was a more necessary and felt measure, are such immediately, while the receipts of the "condon-don't pardon" will start from November. Then there is a stiffening of the labour market. In my opinion, the measures already taken should then have been consolidated and investment really started. In this regard, I wish good luck with the unblocking-cantiere measure and I do not repeat the joke, because I have already done so. For now it seems to me that there is a further hole for all of us and I am afraid of it. I wouldn't want the Troika to be stopped on the other side of the TAV tunnel and therefore unable to intervene. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I still hope it never comes. I'll save you a comment on the DEF: we'll see next April 10. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u96	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-00720 on the protection of the Roman pecorino PDO, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most famous Italian products in the world is the Roman pecorino PDO, whose production area includes the territory of Lazio and Sardinia, with 15,000 livestock farms out of 50,000 total. As a result of over-production and a fall in consumption, in recent months there have been implications for purchase prices, applied not only by companies, but also by the processing cooperatives of the same breeders. The price of sheep's milk, which at the beginning of 2018 was 85 cents per litre, fell from October 2018 to 60 cents per litre, a measure that, as certified by the Institute of Services for the Food Agricultural Market (ISMEA), does not cover production costs and sees our farms suffering. The price of pecorino cheese wholesale fell, in fact, between 2017 and 2018 from 7,7 euro per kilogram to 5,2 euro per kilogram, while the prices in the large organized distribution are substantially high (18,90 euro per kilo at Conad). At a time when shepherds and breeders make mortal jumps to survive, the Roman pecorino is even imported from Romania and financed by the Italian Government, to be seasoned then in Sardinia and become, according to the absurd norms of the Customs Code, Italian product. This modus operandi causes the depreciation of the raw material and damages one of the most famous products in the world such as Roman pecorino cheese. Among the best known industries is that of the Pinna brothers. This company had legal litigation in 2010. The breeders' association issued a statement against the cheeses produced by the farm in Romania that, with Italian names and flag on the packaging, could deceive consumers. I therefore ask the Minister to know whether the allocation of resources to dairy farmers that have caused surpluses is compatible with both the EU competition rules and the competition rules laid down by Italy and does not constitute State aid; whether the Minister would ask the Antitrust Office to ascertain whether it is true that during the period between March and April 2016 the dairy farmers decided to lower the price in a aligned manner by communicating it to the farmers and I also ask that the Customs Code be amended. Finally, I would like to suggest to Commissioner Hogan that he should incorporate into the guidelines on unfair practices the prohibition of under-cost sales that was provided for by Minister Catania. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Council of Ministers on 7 March last approved the so-called emergency agricultural decree laying down urgent provisions on the revitalization of the agricultural sectors in crisis and support for agri-food companies. The aim of this measure lies in the need and urgency to develop, as well as for the olive, oil and citrus sector, also for sheep and goat a plan of interventions for the recovery of production capacity and for the concrete support of agri-food companies. As regards the specific measures to support the dairy sector in the sheep's milk sector, the decree establishes a dedicated fund with an initial allocation of EUR 10 million for the year 2019 aimed at promoting the quality and competitiveness of sheep's milk through support for contracts and supply chain agreements, the adoption of temporary measures to regulate production, including private storage of sheep's cheeses with a protected designation of origin (the so-called PDOs), as well as through dedicated infrastructure research and interventions. The aid is granted in compliance with the European law with the Italian State aid rules SA.42821-chain and district contracts, authorised by the European Commission or, alternatively, to each individual producer in compliance with the de minimis scheme. In order to ensure a careful monitoring of the dairy production carried out on national territory, the obligation to register the production of cow's milk, sheep's milk and goat's milk and milk products imported from the countries of the European Union and third countries is introduced. With regard then to the reported investigation by the Competition Authority on the behaviour of the cheesemakers belonging to the consortium of the Roman pecorino PDO in relation to the determination of the price of the milk paid to the farmers, I would point out that the Government, in line with Parliament, is following closely the procedure already initiated by the aforementioned authority. In this context, I would like to highlight the commitment made to assess an agreement for the adoption of disciplinary measures which provide for effective sanctions for non-compliance with the quantities of production of Roman pecorino and any other PDO milk products which cause the depreciation of the raw material. In any case, the Roman pecorino PDO benefits from a plan for the regulation of the offer prepared by the consortium for the three years 2016-2018 and extended just a few days ago until July 2019 by the undersigned, which provides discouraging measures for producers of pecorino cheese that do not respect the production quotas allocated to them. As regards the rule of the Customs Code which allows a product which has only had the last stage of processing carried out in that State to be regarded as originating in a Member State, I should like to point out that this is a horizontal provision which is not specific to Roman pecorino. In any case, its possible modification or suppression does not fall within the competence of my Ministry. I agree, however, on the desirability of further study aimed at identifying possible conditions that allow to overcome these critical issues. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u99	I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u100	Mr President, Minister, the subject of the last useful processing is provided for in the Customs Code for all products. It is enough that the pecorino cheese is seasoned in Sardinia and even if it comes from some other part of Europe it becomes Italian product. Mr CENTINAIO, Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policy. But it's not DOP. De Bonis (Misto). This is also true of rabbits who arrived from France to Cuneo and were moved from six cassettes to three cassettes and became a national product. It is an issue that the European Union should commit itself to revising this absurd customs rule, just as it is important, as Commissioner Hogan mentioned in Milan, that the concept of a ban on under-cost sales, not only for milk but for all agricultural raw materials, should be absorbed among the guidelines that will be issued on unfair practices.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u101	I greet Minister Centinario and thank him, wishing I did not see the Romanian pecorino PDO on my table. [[Laughter]] The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u104	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to call for an answer worthy of the urgency of the question 3-0072 addressed to the Ministry of Justice, to which I ask whether it is necessary to prevent the abolition of the tribunal in Vasto and to guarantee the community and the territories concerned the continued existence of offices with indispensable rights and guarantees. At the same time, I would also like to ask for a written answer to question 4-00561 published on 19 September 2018, concerning the suicide of a person who had been held until recently in Vasto prison, not in the so-called common part but in the part of isolation, despite the fact that he was suffering from known psychiatric disorders. A case in which I found, among other things, the failure to transfer to a suitable facility and no decision of treatment as a result of the individual interviews with professional educators (psychologists and psychiatrists) who could not fail to know of the inconveniences of the prisoner. Thank you for your possible intercession with regard to these requests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u105	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-101.ana.u106	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 26 March, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.49 p.m.
