ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, the Conference of Leaders has been convened. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 10.27 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u4	Before reporting on the outcome of the Conference of Leaders and taking up our work, we salute the election as President of the European Commission of Ursula von der Leyen, the first woman to play this important role, which in her inaugural speech has outlined the address on which she intends to proceed and we wish her good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u5	The Conference of the Leaders took note of the willingness of the President of the Council of Ministers to intervene on the alleged negotiations between members of the Lega-Salvini Premier party and personalities of Russian nationality on Wednesday 24 July, at 16.30. The detailed rules for the implementation of this Decision will be agreed at a later date. The Conference of Leaders also established that, after the draft law on the protection of victims of gender violence, the decree-law on the improvement of public finances will be discussed. The timetable of the current week also provides for the discussion from the drawing-up office of the bill on the direct call of the teachers and, where concluded by the Commission, the bill on nautical license, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The inspection union remains confirmed and, at 3 p.m. tomorrow, the question time with the ministers Di Maio, Trenta and Grillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, has adopted - in accordance with Rule 53 of the Regulation - the following integration to the program of the intense activities of the Senate for the months of July and August 2019: - Drawing of law n. 1401 - Changes of terms in the matter of obligation of boat license and training to the aquatic rescue (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u7	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday 17 July h. 9.30-20 - Follow-up to bill n. 1200 and related - Protection of victims of gender violence (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1383 - Decree-Law n. 61, Improvement of balances of public finance (final vote by 2 August) (expires on 31 August) - Drawing of law n. 763 and related - Direct call of teachers (from the drafting office) - Drawing of law n. 1401 - Nautical licence (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 18, 15) Thursday 18 " h. 9.30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1401 (Nautical Path) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 23 July 16,30-20 - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 1374 - Decree-Law n. 59, Urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities (final vote by 31 July) (deceases 28 August) - Drawing of law n. 944 - European delegation law 2018 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Doc. LXXXVI, point 2 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 2 - Consumative report on Italy's participation in the European Union, relating to the year 2018 (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1264 and related - School teaching of civic education (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing site) - Drawings of law n. 1387 and 1388 - Report 2018 and Assembling 2019 (final votes with the presence of the legal number) - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in the matter of verification of powers (Thursday 25, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Salary minimum hours (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Syndicate inspection - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 25, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 24 " 9.30-20 Thursday 25 " 9.30-20 Friday 26 " 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 944 (Law of the European Delegation 2018), nos. 1387 and 1388 ( 2018 Report and 2019 Settlement), n. 310 and related (Minimum hourly Salary), n. 897 and related (Videosurveillance) and n. 1144 and related (Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio Municipal Detachment from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The calendar of the week is complemented by the intervention of the President of the Council of Ministers on the alleged negotiations between members of the Lega-Salvini Premier party and personalities of Russian nationality, Wednesday 24 July, at 16.30. The detailed rules for the implementation of this Decision will be agreed at a later date. [[Tuesday, July 30, 16.30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1372 - Delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the maneuver of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public security (where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (decease 13 August) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1089 - Provisions in the matter of popular legislative initiative and referendum (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (first deliberation of the Senate) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1124 - Repeal of constitutional provisions relating to the CNEL (first deliberation of the Senate) Wednesday 31 " 9.30 Thursday 1 August 9.30 Friday 2 " 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) and constitutional bill No 1089 (Provisions on People's Legislative Initiative and referendum) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law no.... (Decree-Law No. 53, Provisions on order and public security) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to Constitutional Act No 1124 (Abrogating the Constitutional Provisions concerning the CNEL) will have to be tabled no later than 1 p.m. on Thursday 25 July. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1383 (Decree-Law No 61, Improvement of public finance balances) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1374 (Decree-Law No 59, Urgent measures in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 40' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 2, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 2 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1387 and 1388 (2018 Account and 2019 Settlement) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1200, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 174, 229, 295, 335, 548 and 662.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking instead of Senator Cinzia Leone, who is momentarily unable to be present today. We want you here as soon as possible and I would like to extend a warm greeting to you from this point of view. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall therefore read the text of the speech that you would have made. Today in this House we are going to vote for a measure which has as its object a very delicate and at the same time complex issue: complex because it has multiple facets, because it is dynamic and especially because it penetrates into domestic intimacy and does so with the aim of protecting its members. The complexity derives from the fact that it is a cultural phenomenon with deep roots and that, precisely on the cultural level, should be contrasted with the aid of anthropological, pedagogical and psychological disciplines, in a systematic and scientific way; but this requires time and coordination of the valid resources even present in our territory, unfortunately still dispersed and badly used. However, the urgent nature of the news and the pitiless statistics, today, requires us to intervene immediately without further more, starting with some adjustments to the penal code and the code of criminal procedure, with the sure conviction that these measures can remove some unfortunate ones from an inevitable destiny. The actions that are intended to be taken, in fact, aim to improve with changes the penal code and the code of criminal procedure in the matter of domestic violence. These changes have become necessary as a result of the problems arising from the current legislative framework and intervene on two opposite but convergent sides on a single objective: namely the victim of domestic violence; the consideration of his temporarily disturbed mood; his need to be protected; in short, the recovery of his person in his dignity as a woman. The tightening of the sentence serves - on the one hand - as a deterrent for those who wish to carry out this vile act in the future, but - on the other hand - intends to protect the victim with prompt and timely intervention by the judicial authorities duly trained in dealing with this type. The measure - as is well known - is divided into 21 articles, in which new and extremely important aspects come to fruition, both in social and in the legislative and financial fields. Let's get to the bottom of this. The judicial police, without delay, acquired the news, reports it to the prosecutor who, within 72 hours, will have to acquire information about the person offended or by those who have filed a complaint, whose urgency will be equated to murder of type of mob association. Another novelty is in Article 4, which regulates the new crime of violation of approach to the places visited by the person of offense, with a imprisonment from six months to three years for those who violate such obligations. Article 5 provides for compulsory training courses that will take place within 12 months of the entry into force of the measure, for the staff of the State Police, the Carabinieri and the Prison Police. The suspension of the sentence is introduced in Article 6, provided that a commitment is made to the participation of recovery and assistance routes. Article 7 provides for the introduction of the new crime of constraint or induction to marriage. It is a novelty that is particularly dear to me and so I would like to dwell on it for a moment. This crime has come to the fore in recent years in our country as a result of the settling of the Bangladeshi, Singhalese and Magreb communities, which now live permanently in our territory, but which nevertheless must adhere to our standards of civilization. The case of the brides girls, which brings us back to ancestral eras, and of which my Palermo has been scenery several times, cannot be further tolerated. Article 10 introduces an ad hoc case, i.e. the revenge porn, for which the subjects who make public photos or videos without the consent of the person concerned are sanctioned in order to do so. A sentence from one to six years is expected and a fine from 5,000 to 15,000 euros. Another novelty is in Article 12, in which the crime of deformation of the person's appearance is introduced by permanent facial injuries, with a imprisonment that must be increased from eight to fourteen years. In addition, the penalties for crimes of sexual violence have been further intensified. In this document there are important innovations also in financial terms: the rotation fund has been increased for orphans of domestic crimes, which provides for the inclusion in work activities of at least 70% of the €2 million already foreseen since 2017. Therefore, the rotation fund will be increased by EUR 7 million from 2020. The proposed changes are all centered on the victim as they take into account its fragility and anxiety, due to the presence of those who have violated its serenity and psychic balance in a continuous way. Of course, the delay in detention time for the deed must be accompanied by an incisive re-educational intervention in order to return it harmless to society and to rehabilitate it in its self-esteem, thus avoiding recurrence. Such changes are, however, addressed in a more attentive way, especially to the victim, who will see in the State a reassuring and timely presence, as well as respectful of his condition as a victim; many improvements of this measure are, in fact, focused on avoiding secondary victimization that often, although unintentionally, continues to insult in a subtle way, but not least damaging, the woman. Therefore, even before, as Vice President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence, as a woman and especially as a mother of four daughters living in this nation and enjoying the personal freedoms that derive from our statuary system, I have good reason to feel more protected and confident in a State that is closer and more benevolent to its female population, too exposed to the macist intemperances that unfortunately still today fill the pages of newspapers of heinous crimes that could often have been avoided. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u11	Mr President, I have asked to speak on this measure because it concerns a very important issue, the protection of victims of violence against women, i.e. interfamily violence. Many things have been said. One of the fundamental elements is that, in the vast majority of cases, these episodes of violence occur far from foreign eyes and, at times, unfortunately, under the eyes of other family members, especially children; and they occur under such conditions that, if the woman does not report the situation in which she is in, the situation of danger or, however, the episodes in which she has been victim of violence, the issue can hardly come to the attention of any authority. Then, of course, there is a need for prompt intervention by the authority because, beyond the obligation, which is introduced, to hear the person concerned quickly, listening should also not be a bureaucratic fulfillment. We know - if we want to know - how often there are mere bureaucracy in this respect, in this and in many other cases where any kind of crime or behavior is reported to the authorities. Therefore, we do not think that the mere fact of forcing the magistrate to listen to the person who denounces family violence can resolve the issue, because it will be necessary for him to listen actively, and not in a bureaucratic way. The danger that I certainly see is that there is a doubling of the complaint or the alert made, simply in the form of interrogation and listening to the person, perhaps by the same person who has already received the complaint, but who does so as a judicial police on behalf of the magistrate. So, we don't think the law is enough. There is a need for a network that is present on the territory. And, above all, it is necessary that the magistrate directly - which is hardly the case - or the person in charge of them is really not only attentive to what is said to him, but also able to take urgent measures, where appropriate. A very worrying aspect that I would like to point out in particular - listening around people dealing with the sector I understand that it is a well-known fact, but I have never heard it publicly - is the following: in almost all cases where a woman addresses the authorities, denouncing ill-treatment in the family by her husband or partner, the person who gets away from home is not the violent part - I have spoken of women, but there are also reverse cases - but it is the victim; and this happens for the good reason that the violent part, being violent, probably will not observe the obligation to keep away from that home. As a result, whoever is torn from his environment is the victim and not the one or her who is the real culprit: there is already a problem here. And this is done because you are not able to ensure timely intervention in the event that the person who must stay away from home and first belonged to that nucleus can actually approach. The most serious problem is that these people, generally women, who are driven away from home, at that point for obligation, lose what was once called the most appropriate parental authority and which today is called, by a delegation given by Parliament and betrayed by the delegated legislator, parental responsibility; in any case, in essence, it is what by law consists of being parents, beyond natural issues. Well, these people, women in particular, denounce that they have suffered violence in the family and are sent to a shelter or family home where, often, without realizing it, they lose their children, even if they have them with them, in the sense that they are no longer under their responsibility, but are placed under the responsibility of social services or the head of reception centres. Often when a woman enters those homes she does not notice it, because she should have the relief of being away from the danger of continuing to suffer abuse; she is aware of it if - rightly or wrongly - she is expelled from the host house if those who indisputably judge her behavior do not consider it appropriate. At that point he realizes that he has lost his children (because he is expelled), who remain in the host house where he will only be able to see them under surveillance and on a few occasions during the week. This is a very serious fact, because first of all it is a very serious injustice perpetrated against a person who suffers violence - it is supposed, because otherwise no provision was to be adopted - and who is also punished, in the sense that she is taken away what is generally considered to be the most precious in the world, that is, her own children. Unfortunately it is a practice that has become a rule and occurs in almost all cases; only in very rare cases this does not happen, and this happens when you make use of a lawyer who knows the procedure and tries to prevent it, perhaps being faced with social services and/or a magistrate who manage the matter not in the usual way and with the usual unjust measures. This is an element on which we must reflect, as on all those who have responsibilities for such procedures, from the courts of minors, social services with their leaders, which are the local authorities, but of course also on an organization that ultimately depends on the Ministry of Health. These arrangements must be changed, because it is no longer acceptable - and very serious - for such incidents to occur. The people who are then placed in the home-family usually represent an excellent source of income for those facilities or reception centres, in the sense that they receive funding, even if not always reasonable, and that obviously feeds the business. We all know - although not in such a high way - of the media and the subject of many political actions - the issue of children who are alienated in other ways. I am referring to all the events in the province of Reggio Emilia, but others are emerging. I've been denouncing things like this for years and we're finally talking about it a little bit more. But the same situations even occur automatically to the detriment of mothers who are wrong to have reported abuse in the family. On this I would like to have the attention in particular of the Minister of Justice, always ready to wave handcuffs and to show off measures of maximum severity and urgency; instead, when it comes to children torn and kidnapped, on behalf of the Italian people, to their families it is said: "you will see", "you will control", "we will see, "maybe," "the responsibility is someone else's." No, this is very serious: the fact that children are torn from their parents by the State, in the name of the State, when the conditions do not exist, is very serious and should be a real priority, and not an issue to which to devote a ten-second answer in a question time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while waiting to be able to speak in the Chamber on what is disturbing is emerging with serious, documented and in-depth journalistic investigations into the "Russian code," an issue from which Minister Salvini has been trying to escape for days, today we are dealing with the so-called red code. I want to use the time allowed in the general discussion for a reasoning that is both merit and method. In fact, the measure in question sees all the political parties in agreement on the substance of the matter. In the Commission, the discussion was carried out for the sole purpose of improving the text and making it as complete and effective as possible. I consider gender violence, but not from today, one of those themes that transcend party belongings. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u14	Excuse me, Senator Grasso, I'm interrupting. Colleagues of the Forza Italia, Brothers of Italy and League Groups, with this buzz we cannot hear from the Presidency the intervention of Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u15	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Thank you, Mr President, and I hope I can make up for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Grasso (Misto-Leu). I therefore believe that the commitment of each senator and senator in this case should not be aimed at personal or partisan results, but at a common success, a success for the whole of Parliament. Only with an alliance of this kind can we hope to help modify a masculinist, possessive culture, still too widespread in our country. A plastic demonstration of this transversal spirit is given by the amendments signed by all oppositions. It is clear to everyone how deep the distances that separate our groups on almost all of the issues are. Yet, without any difficulty, we have shared the spirit and sense of some changes to the text that we are discussing. I would add that some of the changes made are simply to correct errors, omissions and forgetfulness in relation to the original text. I am going to give some examples quickly to clarify the reasoning and reserve the right to speak in greater detail in the explanation of the amendments. In Article 1 - for example - domestic or gender violence is brought back, so the so-called red code is created, to a series of crimes for which the judicial police, acquired the news of the crime, are obliged to report immediately to the prosecutor also in oral form. If we take the Istanbul Convention as a model and as a reference, two important cases are left out of the list, mentioned in the Convention between the conducts in which gender violence can be mentioned, i.e. female genital mutilation (Article 583- bis of the Criminal Code) and the constraint or induction to marriage (Article 558- bis of the Criminal Code). These two cases, among other things, are ignored in virtually all the measure and some articles add only the revenge porn (Article 612-b), which is introduced, together with forced marriage, with the measure under consideration finally in the penal code. Since I am sure that in the intentions of the Ministers who proposed the text and those of the majority there was no will to minimize such serious crimes, the only possibility that remains is that of error, of mere forgetfulness. But I ask myself, and I ask the House, what is the point of not correcting this error and imagining - as was done in the Commission - that we approve a text with these kinds of gaps and perhaps promise a subsequent bill to correct it? Let us correct it today in this House; let us complete it and make it immediately effective in protecting victims of all crimes that can be called gender-based violence. I am not told that there is a problem of timing: in the House of Deputies, the current majority has numbers that can have the calendar as it sees fit. I add, then - as already pointed out - that the oppositions are united and agree in supporting, improving and voting on the measure without any obstructive intent. There is no need, then, to point out that often the House is not even called for lack of matters to be discussed, since all decisions are taken in other places. Between decrees, issues of trust and unreasonable closures you are continuing to empty Parliament of sense and role. This attitude, which you first and forcefully opposed in the past, is equally unacceptable today and the quality of our democracy is at stake. In the Committee on Justice, all this has been completely ignored, not with arguments, but with overpowering numbers. For this reason, as a form of protest and not out of distrust of them, we abstained in the vote for the mandate to the rapporteurs. Among the amendments is the proposal signed by all the oppositions to introduce the crime of propaganda and incitement to criminals for reasons of gender discrimination, which aims to punish the conduct of those who threaten, wish rape and violence to women, of those who organize real lynchings of women, often very young, online. The news and social networks are full of these cases that have already produced serious consequences. Women of all ages and political backgrounds, and therefore also of role, are the victims of this. Well; have the courage and intelligence to support this proposal signed by all oppositions. We strongly reject what Senator Pillon said that, in his speech, he had to point out that gender violence has no gender. He spoke of indistinguishable victims and delinquents, with obvious contempt for ridicule. Unfortunately, if every day the chronicle returns to us tragedies that women see as victims of violent males it is not for a case, nor for a statistical joke. Senator Pillon, when I say there's a deep cultural problem, I'm talking about that too. Denying, minimizing and blaming women, as you do, saying that the three days are meant to make false complaints clear, is part of the problem. And to think that you, in this House, should help find solutions. There's still a long way to go. Colleagues of the majority, you have today the opportunity to remedy a number of errors in the substance of the text and in the method, only formally democratic by which you are carrying out the parliamentary term. I would like to reiterate strongly that you are weakening Parliament day by day, perhaps by taking, for example, countries with which relations, after investigation, are discovered closer than you want to admit. Think about it: we can give the law enforcement and the judiciary comprehensive and effective tools and write together, today, a good page against gender discrimination. We are, and still are, in time: we can do so with all the amendments to improve this text. [[Applause from the Mixed Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr Balboni, for the Fratelli d'Italia Group, in the Committee on Justice, has tabled a number of amendments to the text under discussion, which have not been accepted. We have retabled them for the debate in this House and we will present them in the course of the work. I say this here because I stress that the amendments are all aimed at improving the text, in order to create a definitive one that defends all the women of Italy. The concept was and is, in fact, to extend the rights of victims. We believe and we are pursuing this battle, but the feeling is that the majority has produced a text that wants armor and, while we hope for a cross-cutting consensus that goes beyond the majority forces, is not prepared to accept improved amendments. We didn't back down, but we want to understand why there wasn't - you're still in time - a willingness to accept improved amendments. Please don't make a commercial. Never politicize the immense issue of violence against women, which is a structural issue, an emergency, a social pathology, a social and global disease, a worldwide scourge that crosses geographies, religions and social classes. It is therefore an immense issue that speaks not of numbers, but of the skin and body of women. There is therefore no copyright on the part of anyone, but there must be the will of everyone. After this premise, however, we want to be clear and sincere. The measure represents a concrete step forward in the battle and in the fight against gender violence, with all measures aimed at protecting women. We would have liked, however, because the issue demands it, greater incisiveness and greater severity in the text - I stress - just as we would have liked financial resources, which are not there. We would have wanted them to make the measures envisaged effective and to implement what is planned: I think - for example - the training of the staff of the Forces of Order, so that the resources available and existing are not sufficient, or the fallback on the offices of the prosecutors of the three-day period within which the offices must listen to women victims of violence or the shortage of staff in the prosecutors themselves. It is true: you could tell me that normalizing does not cost and implement yes. However, funding is needed if we are to make systematic and non-sectoral interventions. Give me the brutality: you can't make a wedding with dried figs and indicate everything and not allocate anything. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It disappoints Article 21 of the text, entitled "Clausula di invarianza finanziale" (Clausula of financial invariance). If there is economic invariance, how do we carry out all the actions in favour of women? You tell us. You have baptized the text as a red code, to emphasize the urgency and the preferential lane. Well, that's right. But why not include in the same preferential lane the new offences that the code of red rightly introduces? Why not give the same urgency - for example - to the new crime of revenge porn or the terrible one, horrible of forced marriages? Why? Also on this urgent aspect, then, we must be careful: there is from the world of lawyering, prosecutors, the judiciary great concern about the fall on the offices. The associative networks which welcome women also expressed their concern. Let us listen to these requests. We think that the code red represents a step forward - I said it - but we must add - and we really say it passionately - that it also represents a missed opportunity: it could have been a real leap forward that marked a before and after. With the amendments proposed by the various forces present in the Senate it would have been better. It is true that new cases of crime are introduced and not the lists, but I mention some of them: the face rubbing, the porn revenge, the induction to marriage, relative to forced marriages early (the monstrous phenomenon of the brides girls) and, again, the violation of the measures of removal and prohibition of approach: very well. Action is taken on the penal code in order to speed up criminal proceedings and speed up any measures to protect the victim. It also intervenes well to tighten some penis and remodel some aggravating. But we would have wanted more. The red code, as it is, is not enough: it is a necessary condition but not enough, because we could - and we must say this - finally get to guarantee an issue that is at the heart of some political forces of majority, namely the certainty of the penalty, and therefore no discounts and no short rites. In fact, some appeals decisions - as we all know, because the chronicle returns it - are revised downwards. We should have aimed at that. I don't want to start a controversy, but there's no drug treatment surgery. Brothers of Italy in the Chamber fought. I don't want to retrace what happened in that branch on this element, because it might seem like a controversy and I don't want to, given the topic. Certainly the majority divided themselves on the so-called chemical castration, the pharmacological treatment on a voluntary basis, which we of Brothers of Italy wanted and we ask for pedophiles and repeat rapists. You've split up. The economic invariance disappoints us. Be aware that, as the income of citizenship has not solved the problem of poverty, as the closure of ports has not solved the problem of immigration, the introduction in the code red does not solve the issue of sexual violence. It's a step forward, but not the leap we would have wanted. We know that laws are not enough, they are not everything, they are only half, if not accompanied by a cultural revolution and custom, by an educational process - and there is a strong educational emergency - by a process of prevention. Violence against women is the effect of the abuse of power of a dominant position, whether it be physical, economic, whether it is work or housing: they are, however, an abuse. It's that no you don't accept. It is that subversion of established secular hierarchies that is not accepted. It is that will to impose prejudice on judgment. It is the affirmation of a stereotype about a changing reality. It's the bullying affirmation of force when you stop talking. As the Istanbul Convention says: punish, prevent and protect. The code doesn't answer everything. I would add that Italy has a robust regulatory body, even if it arrived late: 1981 for the abolition of the criminal importance of the cause of honour. Then there were other laws, however late, in 1996, 2009 and 2013. Well, we have rules, but we have to implement them, all aware that there is a short circuit in this country and that we continue to count the death of women, one every two and a half days. And when a woman is killed - I say it here today, that we assume a responsibility - it is a defeat of everyone and everything. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u19	Mr President, we are discussing this measure in this House, while the news, as we all read, unfortunately continues to tell us every day cases of violence of men against women. Men, and unfortunately also boys, who do not know how to accept the end of an affective relationship; men and boys who have grown up in a culture and in a condition of communication and prejudice such that women for them are a property and therefore they decide when and how to leave them free. They are men - I want to repeat this, because, when you do not say who does violence, you do not even deal with the analysis of why this dramatic and structural phenomenon exists - who do not stand up and are not able to respect a woman, her autonomy, her freedom, her self-determination, the end of an affective relationship. I would like to remind the senator who does not remember that we have a law in this State, Law No 77, which transposed the Istanbul Convention. When the Italian Parliament unanimously adopted that Convention in 2013, it chose a precise analysis and policies to be implemented as precisely as possible. These are choices that have made the Italian State responsible, therefore this Parliament and its Government (even the governments if they change), to eliminate all forms of violence against women, considering as violence against women not only the final part, that is, the feminicide, but also every verbal violence, all economic violence, all social violence and all cultural violence, because we are talking about this, that is, the violation of all human rights. Now, when dealing with these issues, it is important for each of us to always relocate the choices that are made within a vision. I do not like to make controversy about these issues and I say everything objectively. The minority rapporteur mentioned all the issues that the Istanbul Convention brought to us in the last parliamentary term. All together, regardless of the political forces of belonging (I insist on this point), we have adopted policies aimed at prevention, i.e. education and respect in the field of training, protection (with all that has been done), fighting and sanctions. This bill, the so-called red code, on the other hand, tightens the penalties and increases some cases of crime against the person; but without placing it all within a necessary vision of holistic politics. In doing so, we are not really responding structurally to the phenomenon, we are not taking any steps forward from a cultural and political point of view, because we are only linked to further implementation, even if necessary (we agree on this). Be careful to reduce the issue only to a tightening of penalties, because this means not to counter and not to deal with the prevention part. I consider this to be an important element, to be taken up again and to be discussed in this House. Otherwise, unfortunately, we will continue to read news reports every day, without grasping the need for politics to be pushed first and foremost to prevent and combat stereotypes and prejudices. We must be aware - it is better to say these things - that, as has also been said in other interventions, the relationship between the sexes is unequal and women are continually subjected to a different kind of stilicide. The theme is also imposed from the cultural point of view, meaning by the word "culture" not something that belongs to someone else; as far as we are concerned, as legislators and legislators, the word "culture" means clear political choices to be made in this field as well. Turning to the measure under consideration, he chose to call it code red. Two nights ago on television on Rai 2 Minister Bongiorno made a statement that I did not like precisely because of the logic of non-controversial, a work that we must all do together because transversally in the political forces there are also those who have too "light" or too traditional opinions on this, so it is not a political part that must prevail over another. However, if Minister Bongiorno, one of the promoters of the bill in question, two nights ago he considered to say that the measure brings into series To crimes against women, because until a few minutes ago they were B series, it means that it wanted to give such a priority; but I do not share this view, because together in the last parliamentary term we have done many things, even if not enough. If that is the case, if it is decided that the text under discussion is intended to make this "A" crime, then we approve at least two or three amendments that the oppositions have tabled and which serve to qualify this urgency, to further make it a crime that calls the whole Senate to face it seriously. There are two facts I would like to take up again. Firstly, if we talk about code red it is as if in the hospital we say that there is one thing to do first: shame that there are no skills, enough people and specializations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, there is a first fact from which to start: we must respect women who with courage, with difficulty, with a force that no man can imagine, go to denounce violence. And so he too, dear Senator Pillon, must respect them for the sole reason that he does not know what it means to face the failure of a relationship of love, also without a job and having children to look after [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] It cannot be said in this House that the first thing to verify is whether it is telling the truth: let us not joke! You have no idea what it's like to report abuse and violence against a woman. Learn to respect those who take this courage, because they change their lives, their families and their children! That being said, if you really want to address this issue, you need resources, skills, specializations, because the great difficulty of women is that when they make the effort to denounce, they need to find people on the other side who believe what they say, take the risks and act accordingly. Why can we really not make an effort to allocate resources for specializations and training? It cannot be said that they are not necessary elements if we really want to give this priority. Secondly, I turn softly to the many who place a lot of emphasis on contrast using the expression "we protect women." In my opinion, women would be able to protect themselves if there were no men who killed them, raped them and created difficulties. I say that because it is better to work to remove obstacles. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, if we really want to address this issue and send out a strong message from this House for the women who are denouncing it, I would like to say that I agree with what is planned; the magistrate with more resources in his offices can really follow this procedure; he warns that there is a risk and that the context is very difficult. Why aren't these women provided with two tools? The first is the accompaniment. It is given in many cases. Why not women? Do you know that 78 percent of women murdered by former husbands or companions are killed exactly at the stage in which the trial is under way? Training and accompaniment are needed on these issues. Could it not be that in this House we cannot improve the text of the measure so that we can all come together and say that we have actually made a breakthrough by turning this serious crime into an "A"? We are here; let us see if this House is going to do the same. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u20	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u21	Mr President, I too am speaking in the debate, with my small political experience as a local administrator, but also as a member, years ago, of a Regional Committee on Equal Opportunities. Like many colleagues, I have seen so many changes and if I think back to the things that were heard twenty years ago, even from politicians and from institutional circles, it really still hangs my skin. I remember that even during the sixteenth legislature, in the discussions on these issues, there were still phrases full of prejudices. The reality is another and we are offered every day by news, newspapers and other media and it is disconcerting. I'm very worried. I think it is an excellent thing that, with proposals not only from the Government, but also from various colleagues and groups, we want to make progress and improve the state's response to these serious problems. The article of the measure contains many measures: the timeliness of the hearing of the person offended by the prosecutor (within three days); the removal from the house and the prohibition of approach for persecutors; the training of police officers; the worsening of the penalties for induction into marriage; measures for orphans of domestic crimes and support for foster families; the tightening of penalties for the illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos without consent; the disfigurement with acid; the issue of the bride and girl. In short, there are many measures that try to remedy what, unfortunately, we always hear from television. I am very concerned about this, because the emergence is certainly an important thing, but there is one principle that concerns me very much and that is that of normalization. We get used to the fact that, however, these things happen and in some cases, in my opinion, there can also be an imitative effect. When you unravel a family or a strong sentimental relationship, grudges are unleashed and alibis are sought to blame the other side. They are human feelings and that can happen. However, there must be an education to respect that, beyond the bursting of these feelings that - I repeat - are human, allows the individual to bring his behavior back into a binary of normality, respect and civilization. If this education is not there, everything and more can be seen. What worries me further is the fact that audiences - because otherwise televisions wouldn't do all these talk shows on the subject - and there is a growing morbidity towards the horror, that is, you have to know all the most terrifying details and you get used to discussing then from the hairdresser, the bar and in the family about what was done to the child or the woman. You can't get used to it. What I have been saying for so many years is that we must incredibly strengthen the work on children, with the help of schools. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I have seen, in schools, important works (themes and drawings) focused precisely on the fight against violence against women, so children understand it and it is important to make sure that they are always able to understand the right behavior to be held. This is crucial. There is an anecdote in which it is said that at the death of a mobster the two children take different paths: one becomes a mobster like the father and the other becomes a policeman. Well, to the question of why they chose this path, the answer is identical: With a father like that... This is to say that there are those who follow that model because they accepted it and there are those who decide autonomously, even as a son, even as an emotionally bound person, that that behavior is wrong and therefore will fight it also with their own profession. We must try to make everyone, to take the example of the case I have mentioned, policemen, that is, stigmatize and combat these behaviors. We must, however, do so with great commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u22	I have to invite you to conclude senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u23	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm gonna finish. I am sorry, but I have to say one last thing, since there is so much talk of respect in this House. A colleague, during an event on March 8, on a cartel, has synthesized in a rather vulgar way three things in which I believe: God, home and family. In my opinion, these are three very important concepts, on which my value system is based and the fact that next to them it is written "What a life of m..."I think it is really very disrespectful. I'm sorry Senator Cirinna thought he was funny. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u25	Mr President, in listening to the speeches this morning, I remembered when, in 2009, we were debating in the Chamber of the Justice Commission of the House (of which you were a member) the law on feminicide. We introduced, at that time, if you remember, the rules on stalking and a whole series of offences to punish both domestic and gender violence. We are here today to discuss the same issue. However, we must bear in mind, Mr President, that there are two problems in our country. Faced with horrendous facts such as what we have read in the newspapers today, of a woman who is killed by her boyfriend and whose photos are then posted on social media, we immediately feel a general grudge, a desire to rebel, but at the same time, spent a few days, resumes to make way for the same way of thinking, the same cultural attitude, the justifying position on the violence perpetrated by a man, so the woman has sought it, for the way she dresses, for the way she participated, because she went in certain streets not frequented and so on. If we do not fight this cultural model all the rules that we will go to approve will most likely not have the effectiveness that they should normally have. You see, Undersecretary, I do not blame you because I would have expected not only the presence of the Ministers, but the need for a timely verification of what must be fought against the rule that we are going to approve. With great sincerity, I say that as the Forza Italia Group we voted in the House and we also gave our support with a series of amendments that did not have any obstructive purpose, but only to improve a text so that it could be effective. Let's get to the bottom of this. Let me give you an example: on the revenge porn, which is introduced by Article 612-b, we have not tabled amending proposals but a single amendment: you have forgotten the minor. Senator Rivolta, a minute ago, rightly pointed out that child violence must be taken into account. Well, in that case you have introduced yes the hypotheses of the person in condition of physical or psychic inferiority; you have introduced norms in favor of the elderly, but you have forgotten the minor of age. I'm going further. We have raised a number of questions: I have asked that Article 335 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should include the obligation to enter in the register of suspects, with precedence over all other news, issues relating to gender and domestic violence. You said it was a good solution, but you didn't give him any follow-up. At the same time, I had asked that news be immediately given to the woman who was the victim of the registration. This is to give a minimum of answer: nothing. You tell me, however, that it must be heard after three days of enrollment. Mr Undersecretary, I know you are careful, you may have read the text, but I wonder: have the Minister of the Dicastery to whom he belongs or have Mr Bongiorno or others read the Reports of the hearings held in the Commission? Just read what Fabio Roia said, that you all know and that he has a specific experience in this matter. I do not want to recall what my colleague, Mrs Monteleone, of the Rome Public Prosecutor, said, that there is a problem with the timing and organisation of the offices that would not make the three-day measure efficient; but I am much more concerned than Mr Roia has written, namely that this provision is not necessary. After three days, what do we get? Think for a moment: the woman makes a detailed complaint; there is nothing else to say, she made the complaint to the Carabinieri or the police and that complaint is transmitted and there is an inscription in the register of suspects. Well, do we have to hear it again about the facts? Do you realize how contrary it is to any logic to involve women in all stages of the next trial, having to remember several times the episodes of violence of which she has been victim? Yet, you say it must be heard after three days. After three days there is no use. I cannot accept Simone Pillon's justification that it would be possible to unveil unfounded complaints. Do you realize that, just after three days, without any investigative activity, the prosecutor, only from the interview with the person for information on the facts, cannot make such an assessment? 11:29 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). I do not want to talk about my personal experience, but I have brought you the example of the highest expert in Italy regarding crimes of this kind, which gave an indication, which I would have given in the same terms, but I do not refer to my experience. I say to you that perhaps you have never seen a trial against women or have never seen a trial dealing with violence, which is now being carried out in all areas of social life. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And I wonder what is the reason for just making a commercial, hearing the woman after three days. That is not a good thing, but a bad thing. I have tabled an amendment which provides for an anticipation of registration and an indication that the prosecutor can listen to the victim when it is necessary: when the complaint is not detailed or when it is appropriate to supplement it. In that case it is necessary, otherwise what's the use? With the same logic we have given indications to correct improperness and errors committed to the House. I referred to the new venge porn crime referred to in Article 612-b. Do you realize that this crime is probably only referred to in some rules? It is a crime introduced, later in the course of the discussion. Therefore, for some crimes and some norms, which are indicated earlier, it is recalled, for others not. Therefore, Mr Undersecretary, why will the suspension of the sentence for other offences be subject to a number of conditions, which we share, as the necessary compensation for all activity, and should not be applied to that type of crime instead? I made an example, but there are several of these cases. They are not, therefore, amendments that concern the country's philosophy, the country's general policy, but concern only one technical issue. What will the judge do in the face of such a crime when, in the parole rule, it is not recalled? To say that we must approve the measure because the Government has committed itself to this is not a justification. You know very well that, when you want to approve a bill, in the passage between the Senate and the House a week is enough. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Corrections must be made which will give rise to positive action. Otherwise, that cultural level to which I referred will be perpetuated in our country because, in fact, these will be norms without a practical consequence from the point of view of the so-called criminal response to certain facts that need prevention. Prevention comes from culture. Culture can be created through norms that have their own effectiveness with the ability of each one to realize the gravity of what is being converted. Instead, you say no. What's the reason? Only in order to carry out a political activity, I say to you very sincerely, that I hope that, during the examination of the amendments, you will accept some of them, which rightly go in the direction of a necessary correction. If you do not accept them, even if I were to vote in favour, I would only do so so that an act of arrogance cannot turn against women, as if the text were not even shared by politics. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a very important measure is being discussed in this House today, which the country urgently needs. I repeat and stress the urgency, because this wave of violence against women must be curbed. This is a growing phenomenon. For fifteen years there have been cases, almost daily, and, in fact, everyday reports have prompted us to bring this kind of measure to the House. It's called Code Red. Red just like a sign of danger. Red as spilled blood. On Saturday evening, in the province of Savona, a woman was gunned down by her ex-husband while she was in a restaurant: her name was Deborah Ballesio and she was afraid that one day her ex-husband, once he was out of prison, would kill her after serving a sentence for the violence perpetrated against her. And so it was, after as many as 19 complaints that the same one had made. These have not served and his cry for help has not been heard. It is precisely for this reason that we have taken this measure forward, so that this cry for help that is raised by women who are subjected to violence will no longer fall unheard of and these episodes of violence will no longer occur and in order to prevent there being still complaints of ill-treatment, stalking and violence that remain unevaded and that will then result in even more serious acts such as acid rubbing or even murder. That of Deborah Ballesio is the last case of feminicide, but only in order of time unfortunately, because from a statistic we have found that a feminicide is committed every seventy-two hours. It happens every seventy-two hours: I want to repeat it, so that we cannot forget this fact and remain in our minds when we vote on this measure. A woman dies almost daily at the hands of a man with whom she has affective relations and this makes it even more incomprehensible. Women who die of jealousy, desire for possession, or for interrupting a romantic relationship. Sometimes even for not having washed the dishes, as happened in Bari at Anita in 2017 and all this is really incomprehensible. And murders are only the tip of the iceberg of the violence that women, many women, suffer every day: beatings, beatings, sexual violence, rapes often perpetrated within those domestic walls that should represent the safe place for all of us. About 7 million women between the ages of sixteen and seventy, or one in three, have suffered some form of physical or sexual violence throughout their lives: one in three, is an incredible number. No civilised country can accept such a level of gender violence. That is why today is a very important day for our country. Today the legislative process of a bill that represents a milestone in the fight against violence against women ends. The message underlying this measure is clear: violence against women can never be tolerated and must be punished severely, but above all quickly. In the Committee on Justice, we have been able to ascertain the procedural procedure which will lead to a streamlined procedure for complaints of ill-treatment. Amendments have certainly been tabled aimed at improving the text and we know that many times they had not been tabled for mere and instrumental opposition, but the text itself was ready to be brought to the Chamber, voted and allowed that turn-off at the procedural level that can ensure that those complaints do not result in further cases of violence and murder. The victim of violence will then be heard by the investigators within a few hours of the facts, at the latest within three days of the registration in the record of the crime, so that he can immediately stop the potential criminal, before he even gets to kill. This is precisely the peculiarity of this type of crime: in the blackberries of the investigations the subject often has the possibility to continue to perpetrate the crime. All too often the dangers that the victims are facing are underestimated and it is therefore essential that the State acts not only on the repression of crimes, but also with an immediate response in the case of the victims' request for help, who have already made a huge effort in themselves to denounce their persecutors. Timing is therefore very important in these cases and action must be taken before the irreparable happens. How many times the news, as we said before, has told us stories of women killed by their comrades after asking for help from the Forces of the Order, perhaps presenting a complaint that then remained dead letter. This must no longer be the case. With the application of the code red each news of crime will have its own path and will follow a preferential road and then will activate the magistrate in a very short time. Of course, the so-called red code provides for more: in addition to providing a preferential lane for investigations and complaints, it has also introduced new cases of crimes, which have been highlighted over the years for their cruelty and frequency; the penalties for offences already sanctioned have also been tightened. With the introduction of new crimes, there have been gaps in legislation and protection that are not present in our legal system. For example, a crime has been introduced that has had an exploit with the new technologies: I am referring to the crime of illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos; it is the criminalization in a specific way of the phenomenon known as revenge porn, originally the subject of the bill in Senate of my colleague Evangelista, who was then inserted in the code red to speed up its entry into force. The criminal code also includes the offence of deformation of the appearance of the person by permanent facial injuries, which is severely punished with imprisonment from eight to fourteen years, or with life imprisonment if the deformation results in death. It's one of those really bloody crimes that must be hit hard. In addition, the offence of coercion and induction to marriage and that of violation of the provisions of removal from the family home or of the prohibition of approaching the places frequented by the person offended are introduced. Control and prevention measures are also introduced to combat the Mafia: for example, special surveillance or even the introduction of the electronic bracelet, which are very important instruments that give greater scope for action to the judiciary. Both the increases in punishment and the introduction of new crimes say loud and clear one thing: women do not touch each other. It is the first step towards a cultural revolution that we all hope will begin, move forward and which we all need. This is the answer that a State must give to the victims of these crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u28	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u29	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, Master Andrea Camilleri died this morning at the Santo Spirito Hospital in Rome. Despite the illness that had struck him for a long time, Camilleri wanted to give us unforgettable works that represent an absolute excellence of contemporary literature. In his life he has been many things: writer, television author, screenwriter, teacher, publisher, and always the traits of the uniqueness of fantasy and originality have characterized his works. He introduced the world to his Sicily. The scents, flavors, unique atmospheres of Vigata and Commissioner Montalbano represent a real cultural thread that has rightly had an unparalleled success over the years both in bookstores and on television. His positions, also related to the public debate, have always put in the foreground the love for Italy and its territory, starting from the defence of the environment and of the historical and cultural heritage. And just his footprint will be a further piece of Italian culture. I invite you to a minute's recollection. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u32	RAMPI (PD). The words, things of air, are. So he wrote in one of his first stories Andrea Camilleri. The teacher will excuse us if our words are not up to him and will not travel to that height. But the air of his words made us fly. It was a different air, sometimes it was a blizzard, when there was the indignation that passed both in the stories and in the public story, sometimes, instead, it was a light breeze, it was the breeze of love for his land, for women and for beauty, of which his novels are dense. Camilleri was a lot of things: he was first of all a theater man. He first brought Beckett to Italy and then Ionesco and Strindberg and many other great authors of the twentieth century. Then he was a television man, with whom he made the popular story. We all remember Maigret, but it wasn't just that. It was the great Rai of culture that arrived in the homes to the simplest people. Lately Camilleri was a successful writer. He began to tell us with a new language that extraordinary land that is Sicily. He treasured it by going to pick it up in his antiquity. There was Plauto in Camilleri's tales and a lot of Sciascia. If we think of "The disappearance of Patò" we also think of "The disappearance of Majorana" and that extraordinary crossroads with which he wanted to tell us about the bureaucracy, its ridiculous and comical aspects and the greatness of men. The enormous success of his Sicilian Sherlock Holmes, Montalbano, has arrived, which, like the English character, for many was really alive, so much so that today in Sicily you go to see the places where Montalbano lived, which in reality has never lived. Like great literature, however, he may have lived more than simple people because he lives forever. This is what we think of Camilleri. We think that, when he makes us sit at Enzo's or makes us feel the taste of Adelina's dishes, he makes us hear them with the written words. Yet, we get perfumes, smells and flavors on the palate. So, we're really in front of a great writer. We really think that, as much as we believed that this day would never come, among many generations there will be someone who will read Camilleri and who will be able to taliar his Sicily. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u35	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, our Group also wishes to recall a master of our literature. As colleagues have said, he was able to fascinate readers and viewers through the realization of the Montalbano series, painting his Sicily in such a vivid and deep way, making you perceive the scents and flavors. Only the greatest succeed through the words of a book to make alive and stimulate all the senses. It is indeed a very vast, valuable and popular work, which I consider to be very beautiful. Master Camilleri has been close to so many people, to so many readers, not only to those most educated, but he has been able to make many people fall in love with his books. For this reason the news of his illness, which alas a month ago led him to hospitalization and did not give him any more hope, alarmed and brought sorrow to so many people. I also want to remember him as a generous person, who has never escaped meetings and conferences, with a participation not only in the cultural life of the country, but also in life and civil commitment. So it is right to give him a moment of emotional remembrance and, above all, of great gratitude for the work he leaves us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u38	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I do not find the words to express the sense of loss that pervades us and therefore, representing the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage and all the Movimento 5 Stars, I take your words to heart, just as they resonated in the Greek theatre in Syracuse a few months ago. Call me Tiresia. To put it the way of writer Melville, Moby Dick's. Or "Tiresia I am," to say it in someone else's way. Zeus gave me the chance to live seven lives and this is one of the seven. I can't tell you which one. I'm done. Maybe you're wondering the real reason why I'm here. I have spent my life inventing stories and characters, I have been theatrical director, television, radio, I have written more than a hundred books, translated into many languages and of discreet success. The easiest invention was that of a commissioner. Since Zeus, or whoever stands for him, has decided to take my sight away again, this time at 90 years of age, I felt the urgency to be able to understand what eternity is and only by coming here I can intuit it. Only on these eternal stones. I have to go now. Goodbye, Master, in a hundred years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u41	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wanted to associate the name of the Forza Italia Group and my staff with the memory of Master Camilleri. He was many things: man of theatre, man of television, man of cinema and literary. He was above all a storyteller, the direct heir of the popular tradition of storytellers, who traveled around the fairs of the village, telling stories more or less compelling. This was probably his figure, the figure of a great Sicilian, who made the "sicily" and the Sicilian language, which is national language, his characterizing figure. He was among the last witnesses of when Rai was really the country's leading cultural industry. He was likened to Tiresiah, the blind soothsayer in the Odyssey pointing the right way to Ulysses. He did not have a good relationship with our political side, had no sympathy for Forza Italia and had no sympathy for Silvio Berlusconi. I believe that precisely for this reason it is our duty to pay tribute to his talent, making him also, all in all, a model not only for his literary quality, but because his artistic biography reminds us all that there is no age limit to discover and enhance a part of himself. Camilleri became the Camilleri to us all known at the age of sixty-seven, so he cultivated and continued to cultivate his literary talent waiting for the moment that history recognized his merits. That moment fatally arrived, because talent was there and because evidently there were also those other elements that make success a reality: luck or, as Frederick II of Prussia said, his majesty the Case. The fact is that Camilleri entered the pantheon of the great Italians and it is our duty and our pleasure to recognize its genius. Camilleri's dead. Long live Commissioner Montalbano! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u44	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day. With Andrea Camilleri goes one of the most important figures of contemporary Italian literature, a writer who has been able to give many emotions with his novels to millions of spectators, to millions of passionate readers, becoming a familiar presence in the homes of Italians through his films, taken from his books. Camilleri was also and above all an intellectual, always ready to intervene with his wit, to offer - with that voice marked by too many beloved cigarettes - a point of view never taken for granted on what was happening in the world and in our country. Precisely in these days, if his physical and health condition had not been aggravated, we would have applauded him at the Baths of Caracalla, where he would have brought on stage the self-defense of Cain, after having taken the parts of the wise Tyresia, as he lacked sight but with a long look and able to see beyond. Andrea Camilleri lived two lives. In the first, as teacher and director of the Silvio D'Amico Academy and as official Rai, he created important works and screenplays that have entered the collective imagination of entire generations, from Lieutenant Sheridan to Commissioner Maigret. In the second, which began at about sixty years old, he became the writer we all know, the creator of Montalbano and the events of Vigata, which embrace a long span of time. Vigata is a small city freely inspired by a land, Sicily, and with a language freely taken from the dialect of Agrigento, which created an imaginary and real universe, an island on the island, so small that it is universal, loved and followed in every part of the world: who knows how some of those words will have been translated, now entered into our vocabulary, for example in Finnish or Korean. We have really lost a great figure, but we are grateful for having been able to know and love him. We would have liked to have read more adventures before Commissioner Montalbano's epilogue. The teacher - he said himself - had already written it years ago: "We never know if Alzheimer's comes," he said with that irony about the end of life typical of us Sicilians. And I, as a Sicilian, am particularly grateful to him for making our island so familiar to millions of readers in the world and for becoming - rightly - the heir of a grandiose artistic and literary tradition. The last time I had the pleasure of talking to him was the night before his story about Tiresia in Syracuse. He recognized me and my wife from the voices; it was a fortuitous meeting at the restaurant, then we stopped to talk about his debut at the Greek Theatre, the emotion of this first at more than ninety years and the events of news. At a certain point, in order not to make us understand by the diners, from the Italian we went to the dialect, in the general hilarity. Although the amazing success of his Montalbano intrigued him, it is not a mystery that was more related to his historical novels, often made with irony and genius as a collection of fake documents, verbals, letters and telegrams, a scripture in which the reader had to draw links and conclusions. It is with historical novels, in fact, that Andrea Camilleri explained his point of view on the world, the history of our country, the brutality of some historical periods - I think of "The grip of Macallè" - and on Sicilian history. His favorite book, he told us, was "The King of Girgenti" (the king of Girgenti), where he cunts and Boncunta (the king) of Zosimo, a peasant who became king and then escaped from the knife of the executioner tied to a kite. His figure will remain in our memory, in our culture, in our imagination. To close with his words, the words of a man who arrived at the end of life without sight, but ready to debut with a new monologue: Since I don't see it anymore, I see things much more clearly. At last, the person and character have reunited. A warm embrace goes to his family and a huge thanks to Andrea Camilleri, master of irony and intelligence. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u45	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. Mr Pellegrini Emanuele, rapporteur. Mr President, I leave the floor to the co-rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Evangelista.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u46	Mr President, the draft law under consideration in this House is another step forward to finally implement the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, ratified in our legal system by the now distant Law No 77 of 2013. In fact, we also recall the recent decisions of the ECHR, which have highlighted the need to recognize the priority character of the treatment of every possibility of crime that is characterized as a manifestation of domestic and gender violence. For these reasons, it appeared necessary to intervene, in particular, on certain rules of the Code of Civil Procedure, in order to prevent any gaps in the initiation, conduct and conduct of investigations, always safeguarding women from the danger of secondary victimisation (this is provided for in the safeguard clause referred to in Article 2). It is therefore normal and we understand today the sense of frustration of those who, sitting in opposition benches, finally see approved by this majority a bill so important and revolutionary for the purposes of the complete protection of women and minors. The minority forgets that this bill has already been enriched in the House. In fact, we think of the new crimes, the crime against the revenge porn, approved even unanimously in the House, but also the crime against forced marriages and brides girls or the crime of deformation and permanent scarring of the face. On the other hand, the amendments proposed today cannot be accepted, since they are partly not functional for the primary purpose of this measure, which is precisely that of speed (but speed when violence is still in progress), partly because they are superfluous, repetitive, some containing provisions already provided for in our legal and judicial order, others contrary to the opinion of the 5th Commission and some even dilators, because they are clearly intended to delay the final adoption of this measure further in time. Unfortunately, the victims of gender or domestic violence can no longer wait for such a serious social alarm. In fact, the daily black chronicle, by means of crimes of extraordinary heinousness, obliges us to impress a decisive turning point in the contrast of the odious crime of feminicide. (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m. and resumed at 12.04 p.m.) Istat data are clear: 75% of cases of feminicide occur within the home walls and in cases of domestic violence 80% of women are victims; in a survey of 16 to 70-year-old women, 31% reported violence. Then it is true, it will also be a perfectible measure and that really requires a cultural change, because it is a phenomenon primarily cultural; many things can still be done, but they can be done during this legislature, with other bills, such as the crime against gender hatred, which we are already working on. Everything is perfect and everything can be improved in line with the spirit of the Istanbul Convention. However, this is already a good bill to prevent, to punish, to protect. I would therefore like to appeal to the opposition: do not miss this opportunity, do not abstain, do not vote against a measure that is urgent, to stop or at least immediately introduce right measures to stop this massacre against women and children, if you really care about the problem of domestic and gender violence. I heard from the opposition desks that you wanted more. All right, let's do this, let's keep going, but start voting in favour of the red code bill. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u47	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u48	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u49	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Red Code is a major step forward in the defence of women. The goal is to stop the criminal action of domestic or gender violence that is in its early stages or is in progress or is about to wear out. To intervene immediately with the listening of the offended person within three days of the submission of the complaint means to interrupt, block the criminal action, prevent the violence and combat the feminicide. Unfortunately, the very serious episodes of feminicide in recent years, such as the last in order of time, that is the killing, in Savona, of a woman with more gunshots by the former stalker husband, have strongly affected public opinion and have shown how fundamental this new legislative intervention that aims to transform the crimes of violence against women from serial B crimes to serial A crimes. This text is one of the cornerstones in the area of justice and security of the government contract and has been strongly supported by ministers Matteo Salvini, Giulia Bongiorno and Alfonso Bonafede, whom I thank for their far-sightedness. There is therefore an obligation to listen to women who report within three days. It's just three days: the alleged victim must be heard and the crime reported immediately. The aim is therefore to speed up the establishment of criminal proceedings and, consequently, to speed up the possible adoption of measures to protect victims and their psychophysical integrity. The State must respond to the request for aid by an immediate procedure, must restore security and closeness to the so-called weak parties. Hence the need for a simple and effective text, full-bodied in objectives but easy to apply in its procedural rigour. The planned interventions work to 360 degrees on the procedure, on the raising of penalties for related crimes, on the introduction of new cases of crime. Article 4 introduces and regulates the new crime of violation of the provisions of removal from the family house and of the prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the person of offense, with a view to the protection of the abused woman and any children. Article 5 provides for training courses for all forces of order, so as to have more uniformity in the ability to respond to complaints. These measures aim to bring justice closer to mistreated women and make them more friends. The text contains other relevant measures: for example, Article 7 requires a stop to the phenomenon of brides girls, saying enough to marriages for coercion. Article 8 leads to EUR 7 million from 2020, the allocation of the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of mafia crimes, extortion requests, usury and violent intentional crimes, as well as orphans for domestic crimes. Article 9 provides for an increase in punishment and aggravating charges for ill-treatment crimes against family members and cohabitants and persecutors. Article 10 deals with the phenomenon of revenge porn. Article 12 introduces the new crime of deformation of appearance by permanent facial injury. Article 13 provides for the tightening of penalties for offences of sexual violence and violence, in particular against children. As I said, this measure is part of a more general scenario of strengthening the security of our communities, which must be a common heritage, especially to protect the weakest and at risk, whether women, girls or the elderly. The right to be sure is certainly fundamental and is built not on chatter or declarations of principle, but with facts, with concrete preventive activities, with certain and severe penalties, introducing new cases of crime and above all speeding up the times of justice and giving widespread awareness to those who must watch, to protect the victim, the severity and danger of certain signs and events. Certainly we must also act on the cultural factor, involving more subjects and sectors in the processes of overall growth of our society, a society increasingly subjected, in recent years, to cultural, family and social tensions and breakdowns that have led to increasing fragility. We are on the side of women, on the side of children, abused and abused, and we aim to protect them and defend them from persecutors, orcs, violents and superfans. We aim to act more and do more, certainly more than what has been done in the past years. We want to carry out an overall project that makes this country feel and especially its institutions close to those who are really in situations of serious risk. At the same time, persecutors and violent must be aware that for them there will be no more excuses, no more penalty discounts. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u51	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u52	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u53	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 012 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u57	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for being here. In his absence I highlighted the need for the approval of amendments 012 (text 2) and 01.1, which concern the immediate registration in the register of suspects, with precedence over other crime reports, and the immediate disclosure to the victim of the registration, to give the feeling of a State that is present and has the possibility to intervene. As you will see, all our amendments are aimed at giving conscience and understanding of the will to pursue certain phenomena and introduce a different cultural model in our country against crimes of domestic and gender-based violence. I am aware of your work in this area and I therefore hope that at least on these aspects, which should not be dissensionate, a different opinion can be expressed by the Government in an indication that takes account of the opposition's willingness to cooperate with the majority. You know better than I do, having worked together in 2009 to introduce the stalking crime and all other crimes of violence, as we need to update them today, yes, but to update them correctly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u60	FADELI (PD). I ask Senator Caliendo to be able to add the signature to his amendment. President.Senator Caliendo, do you accept the request? CALIENDO (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 012 (text 2), tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u64	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, on Amendment 1.2 I would like to reiterate what we have already said, in the sense that the obligation to report the crime has been included in a whole series of offences of gender-based violence. However, from this list of offences for which under Article 1 the police immediately report to the prosecutor, even in oral form, two important cases are left out: Article 583- bis of the Criminal Code, on the mutilation practices of female genital organs, and 558- bis of the Criminal Code, or coercion or induction into marriage, which is included in this provision. It should be borne in mind that the Istanbul Convention includes, in Chapter V, specific contractual clauses of criminal interest aimed at imposing obligations to penalise constitutive conduct of particular violence, i.e. detrimental to fundamental or discriminatory rights and between the conduct in which gender violence may be mentioned, the Convention mentions these two offences. Hence, with the proposed modification they are included in the list of crimes that constitute domestic violence crimes of genital mutilation and forced marriage.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u65	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u66	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u67	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u68	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u71	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Article 2 provides that the prosecutor shall, within three days of the registration of the crime report, take information from the person who is offended or from the person who has denounced the facts. I would like to point out that the three-day period can be reduced and extended in the presence of essential requirements for the protection of minors under 18 years or the confidentiality of investigations, also in the interest of the offended person. Therefore, there is a range of behaviors that makes this term nevertheless authorising and in the evaluation of the prosecutor. The list of offences envisaged, however, does not include the new case of 612 -ter, revenge porn, or crimes of female genital mutilation and forced marriage. The proposed amendment, in addition to completing the list with these offences, refers to the reference to Article 94 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is that condition of particular vulnerability of the person offended, whose finding has important repercussions on the procedural level, which has been inserted in the Circ Convention of the elderly (just introduced in our legal system). The recognition of this particular status of vulnerability stems from numerous measures to protect the person offended by the risks of secondary victimisation, intimidation or retaliation. In particular, where the status of vulnerability is recognised in the case, the possibility of audiovisual reproduction of the statements of the offended person is ensured, the validity of the statements of the victim heard in a probative accident is stated; the review is allowed only if it concerns different facts or circumstances; the judicial police and the prosecutor, when they are required to take information from the offended person, may use the help of an expert in psychiatry and psychology. Furthermore, any contact between the person offended and accused must be ensured and prevented and the person offended must not render such information more than once. Finally, at the request of the offended person, the judge may arrange for a protected hearing. In short, it seems to me that all these measures are important forms of protection for the victim: they avoid conditioning or suggestions, which are very widespread in the case for crimes of this kind, and they also contribute to guarantee the genuineness of the evidence. These are the reasons why we are voting in favour of this amendment and do not realize why it is not possible to accept something that is in favour of the victims.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u72	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, until the words "prosecution of investigations" are followed. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.5 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u75	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr Bongiorno, you have done well to introduce the venge porn crime, on which we have not tabled any amendments, except to indicate the children of age, to whom you have forgotten to refer in that case of crime. However, that same crime, which may have been introduced later, is mentioned in some articles of this bill; it is not mentioned in others, as in this case and as in relation to the conditional suspension of the sentence. Therefore, Amendment 2.6 has the sole purpose of introducing in this case too - as has been done for others - the reference to Article 612 -ter, otherwise we approve the introduction of a crime and then we forget it when we go to amend the related articles, to which that same crime should be added. That's a pretty bad thing. Therefore, the haste to approve the measure will lead to an ineffectiveness of the same and I do not have to teach it to you, Minister Bongiorno, having had some quite serious situations, both in the trials that you personally followed and in those that followed your association. Mr President, I would also like to take the opportunity to speak on Amendment 2.9, and then I would like to speak on both of them. In Amendment 2.9, I do not take into account the fact that the prosecutor in Rome and other prosecutors have said that the three days are impossible to respect, but what the magistrate Fabio Roja wrote when we heard him at the hearing. He said: but if there is a detailed complaint, why make the victim suffer this psychological violence to still be heard by the prosecutor, when then he will still have to repeat the story in the preliminary hearing, still in the trial at first instance and still on appeal? It's quite an abnormal circumstance. It is right then to write when it appears necessary to do so, when, that is, the complaint is not detailed or there are elements to be clarified; so that only in that case the victim is heard. For this reason, Mr President, I would ask you to consider these two amendments, especially the forecast of 2.6, because it will be repeated in other articles, where it will be necessary to consider Article 612-b, otherwise, you understand this very well, what will the judge do when faced with the need to give conditional suspension? Will you take account of a lack? It is difficult, however, to say that there is a lack on the part of Parliament, since in some articles the reference to Article 612-b has been inserted and has not been included in this. It means, then, that it is a legislative choice. Incoherent, but it's a choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u76	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u79	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would ask my fellow Members to reflect on this request which, in fact, repeats that of Amendment 2.5, which I do not understand why it was foreclosed. We have held many hearings in the Commission on justice on this text, Article 2 is at the heart of it, and it is probably the part of the text most contested and on which there have been more demands, in particular from the magistrates we have audited. It has been explained to us that to provide three days, in a compulsory way, in order to hear the victim, not only can it put in extreme difficulty the prosecutors, to whom this strict temporal obligation is given without giving them everything else that would serve (I think of additional staff and additional availability), but, above all, does not take full account of the protection of the victim. This, as we have also explained in the minority report and in the majority report, within three days of what has happened to you you can still find yourself exposed to your torturer and it is not said, that such a strict term is also to the full protection of this woman. We therefore call for this amendment to be accepted, in order to leave discretion to the magistrate, when, on a case-by-case basis, he will examine the matter, in order to assess whether those three days are absolutely necessary or not. On this, discretion can be of greater benefit not only to the work of the prosecutors, but also to the protection of the victim, which is not said that in so few hours you must also find yourself exposed to these forecasts. We therefore call for our amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u80	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to amendment 2.101, tabled by Senators Rauti and Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to amendment 2.103, tabled by Senators Rauti and Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u82	About what, Senator? UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). On Rule 2, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you wish to speak on Amendment 2.0.1, because Article 2 has already been voted on. UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I have not even been able to vote on Article 2 and in any case my vote was in favour. Unlike the rest of the opposition, in fact, I am in favour of the key points of the provision contained in Article 2, because my experience is that if a woman makes a complaint and then nothing happens and nobody reacts, this is the biggest cause of disappointment and not if it is heard after three days. If it is heard after three days, the PM can get a picture of the situation and decide if there is a danger to that person's life and decide whether to ask the judge for protective measures. Therefore, in my opinion, Article 2 is very important and the Autonomy Group voted in favour. The only problem is that this is only an authorising term that does not provide for sanctions and I fear that not all prosecutors will respect it: this is the only criticism I would like to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u83	[[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u84	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3, including Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u86	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u87	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u90	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Article 3 provides that the judicial police shall proceed without delay to the completion of the investigative acts delegated by the PM and shall make available to the PM, always without delay, the documentation of the activities carried out. However, even this article does not include, in the list of offences of domestic and gender violence, the cases of female genital mutilation and forced marriage. Amendment 3.1 proposes to supplement the list with these cases, the importance of which, as mentioned above, has been underlined in the Istanbul Convention which we approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u92	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u93	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u94	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to amendment 4,101, tabled by Senators Rauti and Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102 tabled by Senators Unterberger and Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u97	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to explain the explanatory statement of this amendment to Article 4, which introduces a new letter to Article 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the new offence of violating the order of removal from the family home and the prohibition of approaching the places visited by the person of offense. In order to allow for the optional arrest in flagrante for this crime, and thus maintain that remedy currently provided for the violation of the precautionary measures already in Article 276, first paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, precisely in the case of violation of the requirements inherent in a precautionary measure, this amendment introduces a further letter to Article 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which provides, in the second paragraph, the list of cases in which arrest is allowed in flagrante of crime. This is to coordinate the rule with the first paragraph of Article 276.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u100	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I wanted to speak on Amendment 4.102. Have we voted for it yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator. UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I have tabled a total of five amendments. Allow me to speak on them whenever we get there.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u101	All right, senator. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u102	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u103	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u104	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.2, which is identical to Amendment 5,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u107	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I will make a brief speech on Amendment 5.2, which I consider to be important because this article provides training courses with compulsory attendance for the staff of the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri and others. We make a further specification on the people who have to attend these training courses - I stress - compulsory. It is okay that there are, because we have said so far, also in the general discussion, that violence against women is a cultural issue deeply present in our country and that it is defeated precisely through the possibility of making people understand the gravity, whether they do certain jobs, whether they are other citizens, and therefore to prevent it. Amendment 5.2 calls for these compulsory attendance courses to be aimed at magistrates, social workers, health workers employed in local health companies (ASLs) and teachers of schools of every order and grade aimed at training in sexual crimes and domestic violence. What is the real problem with this umpteenth proclamation? It is that those who have written it make training courses compulsory, but do not provide for coverage, so we must continue to do everything, even increasing its scope, with the funds already allocated that we know are insufficient and not suitable to cover all these needs. Our amendment not only extends the audience of those who have to be trained, but also finds its cover. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 5.2, because if we really want to invest in culture on violence against women, we need to put money in it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u108	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators, identical to Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u111	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that this is one of the articles and one of the choices that we, as an intuition, had considered in a very positive way if, in fact, it had proved worthwhile and real. If we continue to make choices that, beyond the title, manage to change very little having no kind of cover, we are faced with the umpteenth norm propaganda or manifest norm. The choice to train operators for us is absolutely qualifying and is one of the priority battles to be waged to combat the dramatic phenomenon of violence against women. We had tried to extend it, emphasizing that the need to train the operators does not concern only the Forces of the order, but to the entire institutional supply chain of the operators. We had also said that in the anti-violence plan there is already provision for the training of police officers and that no progress is made if in a law it is expected further without giving appropriate financial coverage. For this reason, our amendment, well illustrated by Senator Cirinna, consisted simply in saying that we had found a cover that we submitted to you, so as to try to make this rule effective, real and able to change and improve the state of the art. Already today many police forces work to train their staff. The qualitative leap we do is simply by putting resources in place and not by repeating in an abstract way, within a norm, that it is necessary to do the training of the operators of the Police Forces. If we do not make it a concrete and real choice with the appropriate resources, it will simply remain a good intention but in no way declined in the real and practical life of the Forces of Order and of no utility to the victims. In this sense we are told that, while considering the right intuition, we must necessarily abstain because it is a choice that, in fact, is not substantially made, except in propagandistic and merely titled terms. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u112	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u113	Mr President, I rise to point out that there is a serious incongruity. Without the reference to article 612-b, if I were to be accused of revenge porn, I could be suspended without any consequence, while for all other crimes in article 6, paragraph 1, it would be possible to make conditional participation in specific recovery courses with institutions or associations that deal with prevention, psychological assistance and recovery of subjects sentenced for the same crimes. The offence referred to in Article 612-b is missing, Minister. As you can see, there is this grave incongruence. It would really be absurd for other crimes to have to educate that person that certain things are outside of mankind and not to do the same if they use news or images that they had at other times of the relationship, because it is very serious. We, however, say that for other crimes it is necessary, but not for this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u114	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u115	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u116	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u117	On Amendment 6.1, the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording. I ask Senator Grasso if he accepts this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment it is proposed to make the following changes to Article 6. First of all, it is proposed to integrate, as Senator Caliendo mentioned, the list of crimes with the cases of revenge porn, female genital mutilation and forced marriage, which are inexplicably not included in the list of crimes of gender violence. In another point, the judge is allowed the right, and not the obligation, to make conditional suspension of the sentence conditional upon participation in a recovery course. Finally, the amendment removes that part of the text which, inexplicably, places the burden of participation in the recovery course on the sentenced person. In fact, there would be an inevitable difference in treatment between poor and well-deserved sentenced people, who can buy freedom with their participation in the recovery course, i.e. the conditional suspension of the sentence. This makes us think a little bit about US bail freedom, so whoever has the money gets the freedom and who doesn't have it in prison. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Cucca]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u119	Senator Grasso, this makes me think that you do not accept the reformulation requested by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u120	Grasso (Misto-Leu). That's right, Mr. President. If the amendment passes, we shall vote to increase the budget, possibly, by providing funding for this possibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u121	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, identical to amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u122	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u124	VALENT (PD). Mr President, with this amendment we are basically trying to say that building a "A" justice and a "B" justice for citizens is perhaps not a fair choice in a rule of law. The benefit linked to the recovery of abusive men is fine, but even in this case we are faced with a fair intuition declined but in the worst possible way. Putting the cost of these courses on the charge of the condemned means putting some in the conditions of being able to have the benefit, and therefore being able to attend these courses, and others who cannot afford it, in the substantial impossibility of being able to take advantage of this opportunity. In the rule of law that we have known this is absolutely unthinkable, so, in an absolutely proactive and constructive spirit, wanting to help make the right intuition really useful in concrete, we find a financial coverage and propose it, so that the cost does not be borne by the condemned who wants to attend these courses, so that they are free for everyone. Well, in that case the benefit of the suspension can be conditional on the attendance of these courses for the recovery and re-education of mistreating men. The point is once again that there is a fair intuition, which is wrong and dangerous, which substantially undermines the fundamental principles of the rule of law in this case. So we appreciate the intuition and try to correct it in the course of action. Our amendment goes precisely and exclusively in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u125	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u126	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u127	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u128	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators, until the words "domestica" are forced. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.2 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u131	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, I rise to stress the importance of this issue in Amendment 7.1, which we had already proposed in the last parliamentary term. This is therefore a proposal in which we absolutely believe. We would therefore have liked our amendment and the other amendments to this article to be adopted, because it is not enough to condemn anyone, with violence or psychological compulsion, to force a forced marriage, especially children (wifes who are forced to suffer much more serious violence, namely sexual violence, even with early pregnancies): it was necessary to introduce ancillary penalties that severely punished those who were supposed to defend these bride and groom girls, i.e. fathers, guardians, brothers and sisters who often, on the contrary, even come to kill the rebel girls. We therefore asked for ancillary penalties to cover parental responsibility, such as the prohibition from any office related to the protection. This was our hypothesis: stricter penalties, to protect the rights of the bride and groom girls, for acts that consist mainly in the violation of human rights. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u132	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u133	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u134	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u135	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u138	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, we have tabled amendments to Article 8, in particular Amendment 8.1. Colleagues, I would like to ask you a moment of attention to consider what we are asking for in this amendment. There are children who are orphaned. I think, for example, of a car accident, a bank robbery or the sudden death of a parent; when a child is orphaned he usually has the other parent. However, there are orphans more orphans than all the others: the orphans of feminicide. These children usually grow up with infinite pain because they have witnessed repeated violence in the family (unfortunately, in the vast majority of cases, of the mother). They are therefore orphans of feminicide, but also victims of assisted violence. What happens to these orphans? It happens that all of a sudden they find themselves without their mother and, in the same moment, almost always automatically without their father, who is sentenced to life imprisonment or an infinite penalty, who perhaps will no longer get out of prison (and, if he comes out, hopefully he will be rehabilitated). But in the meantime these children do not have real help unless they are immediately entrusted to new families, often relatives. In the last legislative term I was rapporteur for the bill on orphans of feminicide; the rule also facilitated parental relations, giving the possibility to the new foster family, aunts, grandparents, cousins, anyone who could help these children in the large family of relatives or in the extended family (to whom I believe a lot) to receive help. Think that these children often had problems staying in their homes; often these children did not even receive help through their mother's survivor's pension, because the father in custody took advantage of it. Think that this problem was often created for the inheritance too, against the husband's legitimate share in that case incarcerated. That is why we have tabled this amendment. You talk about contributing to foster families. Attention on this point: we must introduce the line that we propose to insert with our amendment, in which reference is made to the foster families referred to in article 4, paragraph 5-d of the law of May 4, 1983, n. 184, that is to the foster families of orphans of feminicide. Otherwise you will make a contribution to all families with foster children and therefore we will no longer give priority and help to orphaned children of feminicide. Nothing to take away from the families of good heart who have a foster child; but it is not appropriate to subtract and divide those economic crumbs that you put in this law, damaging in this case orphaned children of feminicide. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u142	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on both amendments 8.0.1 and 8.0.2. In short, I believe that we have had so many speeches today, but if we do not approve Amendment 8.0.1, it will mean that we will have talked about fried air. This is the only amendment that introduces prevention measures, i.e. cultural education of abusive men. You will vote against this amendment and I realize that you do so for political reasons, but please read it. With this amendment it is proposed that the regions take certain initiatives from the point of view of education aimed at those who commit these crimes. Amendment 8.0.2 aims to provide relief and social and health care for women who are victims of violence and to ensure that everything is kept confidential and secret. You are not interested in this, because you will still vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u143	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.2, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u144	Mr President, the additional amendment 9.0.4 (text 2) introduces into our system Article 604-c on propaganda and incitement to criminalise on grounds of gender discrimination. The rationale behind all this red code bill is to counter all forms of discrimination and gender violence and to introduce provisions in the penal code and in the criminal procedure code that speed up procedures and facilitate the repression and prevention of such crimes. We have already seen that the Istanbul Convention has been forgotten in the formulation of these rules. For these and other reasons, which emerged in the Commission, Amendment 9.0.4 (text 2) was tabled, which inserts within the penal code the crime of propaganda and incitement to criminalise on grounds of gender discrimination, in order precisely to suppress the conduct of those propaganda ideas based on superiority and gender hatred, or incites to commit or commit acts of discrimination on grounds of gender. I would like to point out that this text has been signed transversally by all oppositions because its content can only be widely shared. It is in fact an improvement of the law that is outside the political connotations and that is supported exclusively by common sense. It seems, however, that violence against women is a battle for the majority to be fought only in words; for me and all the opposition colleagues it is a battle for civilizations to be overcome by the facts, as we have all shown by signing the same additional text, beyond political membership. The proposed amendment therefore introduces this new crime. It is a simple, concrete proposal on which everyone should agree. We have not heard anything in the Commission. I hope that the majority can listen to it. We propose this to the whole House, hoping at least that someone will read it before they vote against it, as we unfortunately expect. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u145	Mr President, in part, Senator Grasso has already referred to what happened in the Commission. I had tabled an amendment that equalizes gender discrimination to racial discrimination, in the belief that only by raising the level of condemnation, even only of discrimination regardless of the realization of a particular crime, could a different culture of our country finally be introduced. Gentlemen, the Undersecretary told us in the Commission that the Government does not agree to equalise gender discrimination with racial discrimination. I was rather perplexed, so I said that I would withdraw the amendment and then put it back in the Chamber (as I did); at the same time, however, President Grasso and Senator Unterberger decided to resubmit the same text - which I signed - referring exclusively to gender discrimination and therefore I find myself having signed two amendments. I stand firm in my opinion and, if possible, I would like the Minister to intervene in the debate at least to say that we will have to reflect on the equivalence between racial and gender discrimination. If this distinction is to be maintained, at least we must commit ourselves to a forthcoming amendment. Minister, I understand that you do not want to pass any amendments and to have this text passed, which will be wrong in some parts of the country. I therefore hope that in order to correct them there will be a commitment to introduce this new type of crime which represents a different cultural model in our country, if we really want to fight racial discrimination. Otherwise, Minister, we will always have a situation where today we are all destroyed and horrified to read about what happened to the murdered woman and then put on social media. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] ; I know very well, however, that in five or ten days we will justify this by saying that he sought it because of the way he dressed or did certain things. That is why we need to be able to combat discrimination in general. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u148	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I am not only kindly asking you to add my signature to Senator Unterberger's Amendment 9.0.4 (text 2) but I would also like to express the need to extend this consideration to gender, because even through social media we realize how gender discrimination is becoming increasingly violent, more and more group-based, mass-based, and how, above all, young people are increasingly suffering from it. We have to take note of that. This is an important opportunity to give an important signal, because the law is always also dissuasive; therefore, knowing that the State protects gender is a way to dissuade those who believe they can invade, attack and discriminate. In conclusion, I would ask the House to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u149	Let's hear the speakers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u150	Mr President, sooner or later I will be offended because you never see me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u151	I also called you, Senator, to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u152	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I've had my arm up for a long time. As my colleagues and colleagues have already said, there has also been a great deal of discussion about this amendment in the Justice Commission and an amendment signed by all oppositions has been tabled for consideration in this House. Minister Bongiorno, I appeal to you, whom I value very much for your efforts over the years against violence against women; I appreciate that and I think you should understand that you cannot only fight the "symptoms" when the crime has already occurred, intervening on the criminal code or criminal procedure to speed up the procedure, but that you must also do a preventive activity. In Italy, unfortunately, the masculine culture is still very rooted and is external especially in the anonymity of the Internet and the web: every time there is a public discussion in which the protagonists are women, these are attacked not for what they do but as women. I do not want to repeat a few swear words that are said because I was already stopped in the Commission when I tried to remember them, but just think of the last story of the Sea-Watch, and of the insults to its captain (whose incitement to group rape came to the point of incitement), to my colleague Meloni and to the investigating judge. I think that a Parliament that adopts a law against violence against women called the'red code' should also give a strong signal that these behaviors are not lawful and that no one can afford to write these things. I realize that it is difficult to trace the authors, but I think the signal must be given. We already have the crime of incitement to racial violence; similarly, a crime could be included to combat incitement to gender hatred. I understand that you want to approve the measure as soon as possible, avoiding the adoption of amendments so that it does not come back to the House of Deputies. I therefore ask that we be able to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u155	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for raising the issue of gender hatred on social media. I also understand the need for rapid adoption of the measure, and I therefore ask whether it is possible to add the signature to the possible agenda of my colleague Mr Unterberger, on which I have already announced my vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u156	Mr President, I too, like all minorities, have signed an amendment which is virtually identical to what previous speakers have said. Even when we are discussing this important bill on purpose, a Member of the House has not allowed himself to say that a woman cannot chair a Commission because she is pregnant. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Lanzi.]] This is the greatest and most dramatic demonstration of how necessary it is to approve this measure, to tighten up the rules and laws and to ensure that finally there is a rule that punishes incitement to criminalise for gender hatred. That is why I agree with this amendment and, if the majority and the Government cannot do without it - because it seems that if this measure returns to the House for fifteen days who knows what will happen - to reject even a proposal of absolute common sense and absolute justice like this, at least follow the advice of Senator Unterberger and allow the transformation of his amendment into an agenda, but the Government explicitly undertakes to present it as its own initiative in the first useful measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u157	Senator Unterberger, is this amendment 9.0.0100 that you refer to? Because there's more than one.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u158	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u161	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to make it clear that the event that has been mentioned - that if it were true would certainly have been unhappy, we say it first - by the Senator of the Brothers of Italy Group who has just spoken has already been clarified by Mr Romano and therefore we do not allow anyone in this House to use instrumentally what has happened, or is supposed to have happened, in the other branch of Parliament, even if it has been clarified. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would add that we do not allow anyone to use a fact, especially if it has not happened, to distort the opinion of the Democratic Party in the eyes of the public, on a subject as sensitive as that of promoting initiatives in favour of the protection of women. I conclude by saying that I would certainly have expected the same timeliness from the Brothers of Italy Group in a week when there was a discussion of a matter that ties Russia to the League party and on which they have not uttered a single word! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u162	It is now the turn of the rapporteurs to comment on the amendments and on the agenda. We are talking about an amendment and there will be a dozen, I have not yet understood.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u165	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that I too wish to subscribe to the agenda of Senator Unterberger, whom I thank for transforming her amendment and announcing that, if it is accepted, I will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u168	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear that I have tabled two amendments of the same content. One of them is aimed at adding gender hatred to the existing article on racial hatred; on the advice of the Undersecretary, who said that he would prefer not to link the two cases but to include an article in its own right, I also tabled another amendment which perhaps the Government will find less difficult to accept, on 9.0.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u169	Let's hear the speakers first. While I understand that the rapporteur, Mrs Evangelista, is opposed to all the amendments, there is a proposal from Senator Unterberger to turn Amendment 9.0.0100 or, alternatively, Amendment 9.0.0104 into an agenda. I therefore call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u170	As regards the change to the agenda of the amendment in question, I turn to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u171	Mr President, on the change of amendment 9.0.104 to the agenda, I would like to make a proposal for a rewording. If the signatories agree, the Government is willing to accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u172	You want to hand the text over to the Senator Secretary, so everyone will have knowledge and conscience? Mr Morrone, State Secretary for Justice. Of course, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg the Senator Secretary to read about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u173	The Senate, when examining the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and other provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender-based violence," considered that: insults and verbal harassment inspired by gender hatred are now widespread and have found, in particular on the Internet and in social networks, their main case of resonance; very recently, only to report on the latest events of crime, women of any origin and political colour have been subjected to verbal harassment, insults and discrimination based on sex, with propaganda effects of gender hatred and, often, from the content clearly inspired by real crimes, such as group rape and, in general, violence against women; it is now clear that, in the context of a social and cultural process of combating discrimination of all kinds, the need to prepare specific measures that protect women from discrimination that spread, as well as more than others, through the Network is clear; it is now clear that, in the context of a social and cultural process of using legislation to combat discrimination of all kinds, including the fight against this new social threat, which is now widely spread through the use of the Internet.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u174	I ask Senator Unterberger if she accepts the rewording of which she has been read.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u175	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u176	Does he then withdraw amendment 9.0.0100 and only keep the agenda that has just been changed? UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u179	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I have listened to the reading of the agenda and I must say that, in any case, gender discrimination is something else than discrimination against women because of the gender of women. So the agenda - which the first signatory accepts as well - is very different from what the House was trying to get the government to accept, which discriminates not against men or women but against those who suffer discrimination every day, insults and much more.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u182	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Unterberger whether she accepts the signing of the agenda that she is first signed by the whole PD Group. Senator Unterberger agrees? UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Of course, I'd love to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u183	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u186	VALENT (PD). Mr President, basically, with this amendment we ask you to consider a possible option in order to make effective and effective the actions of the judicial police, and therefore the interventions to protect and protect the offended part, the woman who has suffered violence, in the case of ill-treatment and stalking. In these cases, it is obvious that very often, that is almost always, the judicial police can only arrive on the spot, even after phone call and after complaint, only when the crime has actually already been committed. It is almost impossible to catch the author in flagrant crime. Given that the need for flagency necessarily precludes the possibility of arrest and, therefore, the material removal of the deed, that is, of the part that commits violence against the victim, since we can never turn him away if we do not catch him in flagance (we will propose with another amendment the prediction of the deferred fragrance, but in a later article), here we foresee a lighter hypothesis: the possibility of proceeding at least to the arrest of the seriously suspected person. When the police arrive on the scene, the crime has already been committed, but it is clear that that person is seriously suspected and there is a risk that those acts can be repeated over time, we ask with this rule to make at least possible the arrest in order to get the violent man away from the victim and put the victim immediately under protection. This means being able to intervene effectively. I turn to many senators attorneys, and to the Minister attorney: the point is to turn away the person who offends the victim and secure the victim. I always hear that we must no longer proceed to bring women into shelter houses, but we must remove men from their homes, from women who are at risk of violence; we must take these men and turn them away. We therefore propose to you a concrete, simple, absolutely sustainable standard which provides for the establishment of detention in these circumstances. We really ask you to think again if we want to move from words to deeds, if we want to make our proposal consistent and if we really want to try to influence the actual conditions for protecting the victim.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u187	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.2 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.0.0100 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.40, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, up to the words "sexual and gender violence." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.0.4 (text 2), 9.0.102 and 9.0.103 are therefore excluded. Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.0.104 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u190	Balboni (FdI). Balbons. Mr President, you rightly considered my amendment 9.0.02 to be precluded, as it is identical to Amendment 9.0.101 which was previously rejected. However, I wanted to ask you, Mr President, with the consent of Senator Unterberger, to be able to add my signature to your agenda, Mr G9.0.104, which, among other things, welcomes the hope that I had expressed a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u191	Since Senator Unterberger has already expressed her agreement, the Presidency authorizes her to do so. Balboni (FdI). Mr President, if you will allow me, then, I wanted to take this opportunity to explain to the Deputy Leader of the Democratic Party... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Balboni, we're working on a measure: let's just do that. I have to follow the Senate review and that's enough for me. So, let's not think about the House of Deputies. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u194	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would also ask you to add the signature to the agenda G9.0.104, since our amendment was rejected, but with the clarification that the wording changed what was the spirit of that amendment. In spite of everything, our willingness to obtain a serious commitment from the Government, however, leads to a request to sign this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since Senator Unterberger has already expressed her agreement, the Presidency authorizes her to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u197	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. Since several Commissions, even bicamerals, or joint ones, are called to the House at 14:00 in several cases, since we have certainly not neglected this provision, it would be appropriate to allow colleagues who have to participate in these Commissions to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u198	Senator Malan, also asking for the comfort of the other Leaders, since at 2 p.m. bicameral commissions are called, I would propose to continue working until 1.45 p.m. and then suspend our work. So we talk less and work more. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u199	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u200	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u201	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,100, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.9, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.10 (correct text), tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 10,101, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.11, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to amendment 10.102, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.12 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.13 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.14, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u204	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, I rise to declare our vote in favour of Article 10, which has been widely shared. A good job has been done in the House for the introduction of a crime which profoundly innovates our legal system and which could be said to be inspired by modernity and technology which risks harming an area of personal freedom. I would like to remind you, however, that there is a bill in this matter, at the first signature of Senator Valente, which is waiting to be discussed and which provides a much more articulated discipline to protect the victims of the crime of revenge porn to punish anyone who publishes or spreads images, videos or audios to sexually explicit content. It is not only about the protection of rights and personal data, but also the protection of the freedom of people who see their image, their being, their identity and also the right to choose the oblivion that is still denied today, through the dissemination of images that deny women and further incite to a culture of hatred. I would like to remind you that some women have been in situations of difficulty such as to lead to suicide. That is why we had also foreseen stricter penalties when the death of a person is the consequence of such events. So there's a full sharing, but I think it's a theme that still requires further insight. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u207	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to echo what Mr Ginetti has just said in connection with the introduction of this article. We have only tabled an amendment which, not by chance, refers to minors, because the hearings on various draft laws are being held in the Commission, including that of Mr Aimi, who are dealing specifically with the subject. This is one of the reasons why we are frankly wondering why this legislation has not already been coordinated: in parallel, apart from the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, the Commission is working both on legislation on forced marriages, it seems to me at the initiative of a colleague of the League, on which we have also held hearings, and then on the revenge porn, on which various legislative proposals have been presented, including - I repeat - our own. This is a little proof of the confusion, which I think is somewhat general, with which the matter is being dealt with. As Senator Caliendo has rightly said from the beginning, it would have been necessary to meditate a little better and also to evaluate the work that is being done, otherwise you risk to review the same topic several times, perhaps with a little poor regulatory production. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u208	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.2, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u209	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u210	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u211	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Cirinna by other senators, up to the words'(a) and (b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.3 and 11.4. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u214	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak in order to express and motivate the abstention vote on a choice that was potentially to be supported and shared: to extend the area of murder aggravating agents to some assumptions that take into account certain types of personal relationships is certainly a fact that was going in the right direction. The point is that, in the meantime, discrimination is introduced in the case of adopted children between adult and underage children. In this case, we are quite perplexed, we do not understand the ratio and, above all, if there is one, it becomes really difficult to sustain. At the same time, attenuators are inserted for having acted for particular reasons of social or moral value and partial vice of mind. Well, in this particular case, we believe that the choice of working to incorporate mitigating factors is wrong. Overall, the tendency to tighten up and to avoid a balance of circumstances, which very often makes the sentence too soft, sees us absolutely favorable, but once again, for the way in which the measure has been articulated, first with the difference between adopted children of age and underage and then with the mitigating inserted in a second way, leaves us puzzled. Once again, we are faced with a fair address declined in wrong knitwear that risks becoming dangerous and grounds for discrimination. For these reasons we cannot but abstain and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u215	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u216	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u217	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u218	Amendment 12.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.4 tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u219	Mr President, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u220	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u221	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u222	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u223	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u224	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to Amendment 14,100, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14,101, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, identical to Amendment 14,102, tabled by Senators Rauti and Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G14.100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u227	VALENT (PD). Mr President, the previous report by the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide has repeatedly called for a greater link between the proceedings, especially when we are faced with causes of separation in civil matters for reasons of violence. The connection was to be desired and we move in this direction. This justifies our vote in favour as a Democratic Party. We vote in favour and we appreciate the effort in this direction, but I would like to stigmatize the fact that it is not wonderful to have a debate on a measure that has been considered so important and on which we have read statements from all Ministers - five of them are the signatories - and in this House, as in the Commission, the same scene is repeated. It's just us talking about the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We continue to speak on the substance of the amendments and the whole majority is silent as if nothing had happened. No one is concerned about intervening, motivating and explaining our wrong reasons. I say this by declaring the Democratic Party's vote in favour of an article precisely to show that there was no prejudice and that we have always entered into the matter. We tried to have a discussion anchored in the issues and we did it against a rubber wall. I believe that this attitude does not honour the substance of the measure, if it is not a propaganda measure, as we insist on believing and that we insist on trying to change. On the other hand, we only receive negative opinions, without reason, without motivation and without even a debate. Nor is there any recognition of the intercourse, which is absolutely worthy of merit. In this case, however, it seems strange to me. Here there was not only an opinion of the opposition, but there was a very detailed and timely opinion of the MSC, which said clearly to be careful, because even so done the link between the proceedings in criminal, civil and juvenile is monco, because there are so many important acts and measures that must pass. This must be about the whole file and the whole file, because very often even reading a testimony made in criminal proceedings has a value, to look at the credibility of the witness and the credibility of the victim. So we need to draw not only on the measures taken in the course of the work, but also on all the acts. The MSC itself had said that it should better articulate this provision and try to get more into it. On the other hand, once again there has been none of this and we have still been deaf - I repeat - in this case not to the calls of the opposition, as you have shown to do on the whole measure, but also to the calls of those who deal with this matter with passion, dedication and professionalism for much longer than we can do and know this matter much better than we can know it in this House. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u230	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, we too cannot avoid this stigma, because this is a fundamental measure which women and the whole country, which is meant to be civil, have been waiting for a long time. In the face of sensible and sensible proposals, which would improve a measure that might for once come out I do not say perfect, but certainly better, sorry never to see the representative of the Government stand up for a moment to justify the reasons for the favourable or contrary opinion, instead of just saying, simply, that the measure must be closed. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Mixed Groups.]] Otherwise we will continue to fire titles and slogans and we will never fire a real and good measure, although certainly today the text will be voted unanimously, because we will of course not be able to avoid voting on it. However, it could have really been a great measure of civilization in Parliament all united. So we ask at least once in a while for a consideration. It almost seems that bringing the measures to Parliament is almost a matter of mere form and not of substance. Let us remember that Parliament is the representation of citizens and is the strongest part of the rule of law, but we continue to want to humiliate it. So, please, occasionally, even out of respect for us, get up and motivate your choices. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u233	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I want to support the position of my colleague, because he is systematically denying bicameralism. This happens with the decree-laws, which have or at least should have a reason for urgency inherent in their definition, but it also happens with the draft-law. Denying a second-reading Chamber to be able to intervene, discuss and improve the text is denying bicameralism, which was reconfirmed by the Italians in December 2016. I find this attitude serious and I want to report it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u234	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.1, tabled by Senators Bini and Cucca. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, it has come to the Presidency news that the convening of the bicameral commissions has been postponed to 14.30. There would be few votes left to conclude the examination of the articles, but I already see that the Heads of Group do not intend to continue their work beyond the time set out above. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.45 p.m. and resumed at 15.47 p.m.) The session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u235	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u236	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u237	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.3 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.4 tabled by Senator Fedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.6 tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Fedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u238	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u240	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I have seen that the appeals made before the break did not have any effect (senators Valente and Gallone spoke). There were those who spoke - I no longer remember who it was - to open Parliament up like a box of sardines. That is to say, transparency should be given; it is also beautiful. Transparency means that decisions that are taken must be explained and not just ordered. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A short time ago, the majority even risked missing the quorum, because no one dared take the floor, as would normally have been done, to intervene for two minutes; one should be able to say something about a measure that is supported. But here there is a habit of not saying anything. This is not a disrespect to us as opposed to the opposition; we know our reasons and explain them. He is a fool first of all to the voters of the majority and then to the Italians in general. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not blame the rapporteurs today, because it is a stable habit with this majority that has never - I say never - an explanation of why it says "no" or "yes." This is a voter, who wants to mortify himself and then attack him with the weapons of ill-fated institutional reforms, passing laws without any explanation. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Today without any explanation you are obliged, indeed you are obliged, because you are free (the Constitution says that you are free, the natural law says that you are free), to approve a provision with a series of material errors (senator Caliendo emphasized them, among others). But, since there is probably a mandate to have this thing to wave this week, so you cover something else, then you have to get absolutely to confirm the mistakes that have been made earlier, with the result that, despite the law has a very noble end, that we share (the one to defend women who are the object of violence), they approve of the partially ineffective norms, that will embarrass them, hindering the right course of justice, for the noble purpose of having the headline today, rather than maybe in September or August. Well, this is not the Parliament that we want and I do not think that the Italians really want a Parliament like this. It is clear, however, that as long as there is media domination, as long as the tweet dominates common sense, as long as the law done quickly overrides the law done well, you will go on like this. Happy birthday. The problem is that the consequences are not paid for by you (you will also pay for them), but the Italian people pay for them and in this case the women who are victims of violence pay for them. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u241	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.7, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u242	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u243	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u244	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.1, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.0.2, tabled by Senator Balboni, until the words "Article 97" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 160.5 and 16.0.3. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.100, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.4 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u245	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u246	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u247	We move on to amendment 17.1 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators, identical to amendment 17.100, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.3 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 17.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.4 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u248	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u249	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u250	Let us move on to amendment 18.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u251	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u253	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for coming to this House. We voted on a number of amendments, hoping that there would be a minimum amount of rethinking during the debate. Amendment 18.1 takes account of the fact that the system of domestic or gender-based violence cannot be combated unless preventive action is taken. Recalling what you have said on several occasions - namely that prevention is worth much more when it is possible to do it right - I would ask you to read this amendment, which regulates how to do prevention with regard to those responsible for the crimes in question. For this reason, I hope that you will at least give an indication of the government's commitment to the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u254	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 18.2 which is identical to Amendment 18.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 18.100, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u255	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u256	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u257	Let us move on to amendment 19.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u258	Mr President, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u259	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u260	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u261	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u263	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this article is the explanation of the limits of the measure that we have obviously voted on - or rather, so far we have voted on the articles - and that it has also been voted on in the House. Article 21 contains the clause of financial invariance which, with the rejection of all the amendments tabled so far relating to resources, places, in fact, a boulder on the possibility of application of the legislation. Colleagues, I would like to point out to you - as Senators Malan and Caliendo have already reminded you and all those who have spoken - that this measure needs legs, in the sense that the offices of the prosecutors naturally need structures in order to achieve a kind of listening centre in three days, as it has been conceived. I would also like to remind you that such legislation would also need all the support given by the so-called electronic bracelets, also introduced with the security decree, but which did not have the financial and economic support. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the last call we make, because we are looking at this measure, for which all our Members have fought. However, we would like it not only to be on paper, but to be based on an economic and financial point of view, and therefore in terms of resources and possibilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u266	VALENT (PD). I, who often agree with Senator Caliendo, do not welcome the arrival of Minister Bonafede, which I stigmatize as late, since it will probably allow him to make some agency launches by today and to have some headlines in the newspapers tomorrow. On the other hand, we would have liked you to have listened to the whole debate that has been held, which has been worthwhile and in-depth - as we have already tried to say - without a single voice being raised to argue on the subject either by the majority parliamentarians or by the Government. We would therefore have liked your presence, dear Minister. Let us imagine that the delay he has accumulated to come here, certainly due to more important commitments to which he had to carry out, will run counter to the timeliness with which instead he will declare that, thanks to his intervention, we have secured the victims. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I imagine you will be prepared to make this statement, while you were not prepared to come to this House to discuss with us, also to tell us that we had made a series of absolutely unsustainable proposals. As you may know, your Undersecretary, who has always been present in the work of the Commission - and I thank him for that - has never spoken on the subject, and I have told you so in the Commission and I repeat it here. At least we hoped he'd be here. We thought that Mr Bonafede would come to the House to discuss the reasons why all our amendments deserved rejection, but he did not give a single reason. You just keep looking at me in religious silence, Minister. I would expect at least that on Article 21 you or Minister Bongiorno will tell us how the titles that we will read tomorrow in the newspapers will be possible; I ask you, then, if you have the courage to go to the law enforcement agencies and all the judicial offices to say that everything you have asked them to do will have to support it at no cost, at financial invariance, rightly, for the state's coffers. So, to the magistrates - I suppose you by institution should somehow defend their dignity - you impose a significant, important amount of work. Our prosecutors will rightly be forced to do so. I do not know if he knows that the MSC has expressed a very articulate opinion in which he says to pay attention, because the prediction of the famous three days calls into question the possibility by the prosecutor to listen to the victims, and to make it to a specialised staff. Many prosecutors, in fact, will be forced to delegate because they will not succeed, unless you, with Article 21, have so much resources the judicial offices that you can hire new and more staff. On the contrary, you know the situation, because it is from you that the judicial offices come every day to say what the conditions are. You know the conditions of difficulty they face, but those same judicial offices at the moment are asking for miracles, and you are simply asking to do so so so that you can once again make a propaganda announcement on the skin - in this case, dear Minister - of women who have already suffered an atrocious violence, who have seen their lives ruined. Mr. President, it's complicated. You should probably call the Minister back. He seems distracted to me. I understand that it is your prerogative (I do not allow myself) but I would stigmatize it. I'm trying to ask for your intercession so the government can be careful. Since we do not have the opportunity to speak with Members of Parliament, we have no opportunity to talk and to be heard even by the Government, you almost put us in a sort of identity crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u267	Senator, the minister was careful. It was simply a procedural matter that was being discussed in order to prevent difficulties being created.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u268	Please finish. VALENT (PD). I would like to say, then, that Article 21, probably - at least out of intellectual honesty - should not be in the appendix to the measure, but upstream, as an opening. We want to do so many good things, but we declare it: we have to do them at no cost. There are many good intentions that we would like the country to appreciate, but they will remain so, because it is objectively impossible. I am thinking of the two pillars of the measure: on the one hand, the obligation of three days for the prosecutor to take summary information from the person offended; on the other hand, the possibility for the forces of order to have appropriate training courses that allow them to develop training that allows him to listen to the victims. Well, I ask all of you how you can think of doing all this - and much more, since it is a measure that you too say is important - simply at no cost. This is the article that reveals a game we wouldn't have liked to see: a game played - excuse the word game - once again on women's skin. We have dropped the propaganda of this government on many issues, but - believe me - seeing it played on the skin of women victims of violence is something that really leaves an open wound, within this branch of Parliament and in the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u269	Mr President, on this subject I can only say that the financial invariance of regulatory measures is assessed not only at the political level but also at the technical level. In this case, he's had all the evaluations that were supposed to be there. I take this opportunity to make it clear in a sincere way, and indeed without any controversial spirit or propaganda - as has been said - but simply because it is a measure that I know we all care about. I want all opposition forces to know that on the various ideas for reflection, for further improvement of the discipline on the protection of women, the majority will endeavour to seek a comparison even later. On the other hand, there have also been proposals from the majority forces for legislation aimed at deepening and broadening the scope of some of the issues dealt with in the measure under consideration. It is clear that the majority made a choice, which was to seek an acceleration in the second reading of the measure, given the overriding need to proceed with urgent times on a matter which, politically acceptable or not, requires urgent times. I share with you my opinion, which is absolutely personal, and I respect, as is normal and obvious, all the votes of all the forces of majority and opposition. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I believe that today it would be nice for such a measure to be voted in favour of the whole of Parliament. Clearly, I repeat that this must be done in full respect of Parliament's autonomy and the decisions that individual political forces will want to take. However, I was pleased to share with you my wish, which remains so. [[Senator Valente's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u270	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u273	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister and Minister, just yesterday we heard the new President of the European Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen, say important words on the subject, pointing out how violence against women will have to be included in the list of crimes for which the European arrest warrant is provided, the fact that the European Union will have to accede to the Istanbul Convention and that the new Commission will have to be composed respecting gender equality. This shows once more the importance of having women in leadership positions who do not forget other women. From this point of view, I also very much appreciate the commitment of Minister Buongiorno on the issues under discussion, which is expressed also through this measure. I also like the choice of the code red name, which gives the idea of urgency, of the preferential lane that must be recognized to violence against women. Unlike many others, I am in favour of one of the key points of the measure: the idea that the woman who denounced should be heard by the prosecutor within three days. In my personal experience, the greatest disappointment for a woman who denounced is to see that afterward no one reacts. Sometimes it also happens that the prosecutor asks for dismissal, without ever having spoken to the person he denounced. If, on the other hand, the prosecutor is obliged to hear it within three days, he can quickly get a picture of the situation, assess the danger of the situation and determine whether protection measures are needed. If a criticism is to be made, it is only a peremptory term, without sanction, which I fear will not be respected by all prosecutors. And then we had to give a preferential lane also to the processes that often last years. And we know that the strategy most used by the defense is to attack the credibility of the offended person and the prosecution's texts. The more time passes from what happened and the first interrogations, the more likely they are testimonies that contain inaccuracies and contradictions. Therefore, the trial for the victim turns into an ordeal of further suffering. Finally, it also introduces the duty of the prosecutor to inform the offending party of the development of the case, of a possible modification of the protection measures or even of the release of the suspect. I agree that the violation of a protection measure becomes a separate crime and I would also have welcomed an automatism, in the sense that the violation of a protection measure automatically involves the application of a more restrictive measure. Positive is also the suspension of the sentence for the condemned conditional on a psychological path. The formation of the Forces of Order is also an old instance of the people who deal with these issues. Too many times I have heard that women who wanted to report violence have been sent home because they did not have to report their children's father. Then we should finally have a specific training for operators in this field, even if it would have been better to actively involve anti-violence centres. A very critical point in this respect is the financial invariance clause. How will the law enforcement agencies and the judicial system apply the law without new staff and working tools? Another thing that is regrettable is the attitude of the majority. This is a measure that could have a cross-cutting consensus and to which the opposition could make an important contribution. Unfortunately, however, even in the case of a law that we all share in principle, a wall has risen from the majority. I am also talking about technical corrections, such as the failure to include references to the new revenge porn case, where the list of crimes of violence against women is made. In order to speed up the times, the completeness of a measure that could become a real framework law on the subject has also been renounced. In particular, I refer to the amendment calling for the fight against violence and discrimination against women, with a new crime. The agenda is fine, but an ever faster society, with ever faster transformations, requires equally fast legislative responses. Unfortunately, the misogina and misogina culture has found in the Net an enormous case of resonance, in an atmosphere of real impunity: Carola Rackete, Giorgia Meloni, the gip of Agrigento and Emma Marrone are only the last ones in order of time to have become the honors of the chronicle for the insults and offenses suffered. Natalia Aspesi wrote it well: on the Net, when a public man is insulted, he is called with neutral epithets and independent of his sex. A woman, on the other hand, is attacked as a woman, as if her presence in social life was a upheaval in relation to the natural order of things and, therefore, deserving of the worst nefariousness, from group rape to violent death. Physical violence and feminicide are only the last stage of daily verbal violence. In addition, there is no fight against the economic violence suffered by the many housewives who receive no protection from the law in constancy of marriage. Then, the limit of the measure is that it has not tried to give a strong signal of condemnation of this phenomenon as well. Despite the critical points, however, it is important to react to violence, but of course other measures are needed with a view to prevention. Violence against women is always an expression of gender inequality. There is a need to increase the number of women in positions of leadership or leadership; to promote women's access to work; to combat wage disparities; to introduce life-to-work reconciliation instruments also for men, who want and need to be more involved in family life management tasks. It is also necessary to work on the language, because this creates the common feeling. If you don't use the feminine reward for the most prestigious assignments, you're saying that those assignments are just for men's sake. And it makes me laugh, Mr Pillon, when he says that this phenomenon has nothing to do with the relationship between men and women. Family abuse, feminicides, forced marriages obviously have a strong gender component. This does not mean blaming all men, let alone; I really appreciated many speeches by male colleagues, made with competence and sensitivity on the subject. My hope is that this Parliament will then be able to continue along the path set out in this measure; that it will be a start and not an end. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u274	I take the opportunity to greet the municipal council of the Municipality of Predoi, to which I welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u275	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u277	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, once again the majority has remained deaf to the demands, in some cases to the simple corrections suggested by the oppositions, for once united despite the political differences, in order to make the text under consideration more effective, more complete. An important step forward on a painful and delicate issue such as gender violence has been turned into yet another wasted opportunity. Too bad. Too bad, because the issue of violence against women daily crosses the chronicles of our country and cannot be relegated to the only dimension of the private pain of those who suffer violence. In fact, it is intimately linked to the idea of society that we have in mind for the present and especially for the future. Violence in family relationships - dynamics that have nothing to do with love - cannot be fought except through collective action of a cultural character, even before the prevention, repression and legislation. You have to sweep the field from any understatement. It is crucial to clarify the words. Any behavior that wants to annihilate women in their identity and freedom, not only in their physical intimacy but also in their psychological, social and working dimensions, is gender-based violence. Things must be called by their name: it is the first fundamental step on which to build a path of civilization. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, if you think that I can continue in this way, I will continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u278	President Grasso, I have drawn the House to its attention. There are very few senators left, and if those left were to pay more attention to those who are speaking, it would be at least polite.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u279	Grasso (Misto-Leu). But I do not ask for attention, but for silence. If the whole country and above all men are called to an extraordinary cultural commitment, it is not to be underestimated the contribution that Parliament could have made by improving the legislation on gender violence. The measure we are about to lay off has a genesis that has its roots in the Istanbul Convention, which laid down a comprehensive legal framework for protection against domestic and gender-based violence. It was necessary, however, to deepen the existing legislation; to strengthen some of its profiles; to harmonise the provisions of the penal code and criminal procedure so that those who are victims of serious crimes are truly protected. Without a doubt, this text improves the current legal framework, although with shortcomings - let me say this - of sloppiness, supposition and haste, such as to force Parliament soon - as the Minister of Justice himself said here - to have to put the rules back into practice, which with a responsible and far-sighted majority could easily have been avoided. I would like briefly to draw attention to a number of points which I consider to be very important. First, the timing of the investigation is accelerated, in particular by providing that the judicial police, acquired the news of the crime, report promptly to the prosecutor also in oral form; and that the prosecutor, subject to special circumstances, takes information from the person offended within three days of the news of the crime. It is an important novelty, but it is not clear why it is not extended to hateful crimes such as forced marriages and female genital mutilation; violence that the majority evidently underestimates in the legislative framework and then give ample prominence via Twitter as a weapon of propaganda. Then there is the introduction of new crime cases. The offence of violation of the measures of removal from the family home is provided for; the prohibition of approach to the places visited by the offended person, a measure that had been desired in the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as on all forms of gender violence, and which in recent days has returned overwhelmingly to our attention with the murder of Savona. It is planned to participate, at the expense of the sentenced person, in specific recovery courses in order to obtain the conditional suspension of the sentence. But is this not a way of creating class justice between those who can pay for recovery courses and those who cannot? What requirements must then be met by associations that make recovery courses, since there is no regulation and no register? Recovery courses would be necessary, but perhaps as a complement in reeducation following the atonement of the sentence. There is, however, none of this in the law. Above all, can we be sure that all this is enough to secure the victims? These are questions to which no answer is given and this influence, unfortunately negatively, the overall assessment of the bill. The new crimes of constraint or induction to marriage (the so-called forced marriage) and revenge porn are finally introduced. This is certainly a good thing. But, Minister, do you know that they are not adequately placed in all the rules which, from a procedural point of view, facilitate the repression and prevention of domestic gender violence? I cannot deny the bitterness of the incomprehensible attitude of the majority and the government in the debate both in the Commission and in this House during the amending phase. There are issues on which the political battle must give way to total collaboration, lowering once and for all the party flags. Gender violence is one of these. We at Liberi and Uguali like other times - I think, in the first place, to the vote of exchange, to the corrupt sweep, to the circumvention of the elderly - were ready to do so, ready to cooperate in order to achieve a shared result. We have asked from the outset, since from the point of view of principles we are all in agreement, that we should work together, without political demands. Unfortunately, our colleagues in the majority had, once again, the only surrender to go forward without concessions to oppositions, where by concessions we mean all our technical observations that would have allowed a more complete and more consistent text to be fired. I understand the urgent need for propaganda for you, but I still find it incredible that you have been deaf to any of our demands in the Commission, as well as in this House. We could deliver to the country a set of rules that, when applied, would work better. Too bad. It is only by writing good laws that concrete results can be obtained. There have even been proposals for amendment signed by all oppositions. Well, it's all been useless. Once again you have chosen to force the hand, to proceed at any cost, without seeking any form of cooperation between the parliamentary forces. It is a valuable collaboration as never before on these issues. Unfortunately, I have to note that authoritative figures of this Government - I am thinking of Minister Bongiorno, who has always been committed to combating gender violence, as well as Minister Bonafede, who is present and has always shown himself sensitive to the rights of the victims - did not want to make himself heard, raise his voice, indicate to the parliamentarians of the majority the way to do better. Once again, we unnecessarily asked the Senators of the League and Movimento 5 Stars for a different attitude that would enhance the role of Parliament, which became mere executor of the Government's wishes. For all these reasons - and I start with the conclusion - for not wanting to introduce the crime, shared by all the opposition forces, propaganda and incitement to criminalise for reasons of gender discrimination and, moreover, for not having provided any kind of funding for the instruments you intend to put in place, while sharing the principles inspiring the bill, I sincerely regret that a law that should have been adopted unanimously - as you wished, but without having given anything before to be able to achieve this result - will unfortunately see our abstention. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u282	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this draft law, because it shares its aims and, to a large extent, its content. It is not what we would have liked in every article, but it is certainly a step forward. It is not a qualitative leap - as my fellow Senator Rauti explained very well in general discussion - but it is still a step forward. In particular, we believe that the introduction of Article 558- bis of the penal code, which punishes with imprisonment up to five years anyone, with violence or threat, forces a person to contract marriage; this penalty can reach seven years if the facts are committed to the detriment of a minor of fourteen years. According to us it is particularly important the last paragraph of the article quoted, which also punishes the fact committed abroad by an Italian or a foreigner resident in Italy or by anyone, if to the detriment of an Italian or a foreigner resident in Italy. Never more brides girls: this is a very important result! Equally right is the introduction of article 612-b, which punishes with imprisonment up to six years, in addition to a fine from 5,000 to 15,000 euros, the illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos, even if in this case it is not understood why Government and majority did not accept the proposal of Senator Unterberger to extend the same punishment to the broadcasting of audio having the same content. Similarly, it is not clear why Senator Caliendo's amendment was rejected, which provided for the inclusion of the commission of the event to the detriment of a minor among the aggravating factors referred to in the fourth paragraph: it would have cost nothing and certainly had a more effective rule. Moreover, the Brothers of Italy Group also agrees with the amendment introduced to the Code of Criminal Procedure to require that the prosecutor - this is the heart of the measure - feel the victim of domestic and gender violence within three days of the registration of the crime report. Again, however, it is not clear why the minority amendments, which proposed the extension of this rule to the new offences referred to in Articles 558-a and 612-b of the penal code, introduced by the draft law under consideration, were rejected. Furthermore, it is not clear why no consequences or penalties have been provided for in the event of non-compliance with the three-day deadline by the prosecutor. The risk is therefore that the case law interprets this term as merely authorising and that the prosecutors do not take it seriously or in due consideration, given also, Minister, the failure to implement the human and organizational resources necessary for its implementation, as Senator Rauti rightly pointed out in her speech this morning under general discussion. It is also acceptable to amend Article 165 of the Criminal Code which, for some serious crimes of gender violence, makes conditional suspension of the sentence conditional upon the participation of the criminal in specific recovery paths. It would have been desirable, however, for the bodies or associations in which to carry out this journey to be included in a special register, but the amendment was also rejected. The introduction of Article 583-d of the penal code, which punishes the deformation or permanent scarring of the face with imprisonment from eight to fourteen years, is also right, because it is a direct attack on the identity of the person: it is an exemplary penalty and we hope that it will be applied more towards the maximum than towards the minimum. It is also right to provide that the release of the sentenced person should be immediately communicated to the offended person and his lawyer, in addition to the provisions already laid down in Article 90-b of the Code of Criminal Procedure for cases of violence against the person. But even in this case we do not understand, Minister, why exclude the new articles 558-a and 612-b of the penal code; above all, Brothers of Italy is particularly regretted that their amendment 15.1 was rejected, which asked to communicate, in addition to the release, the permits granted during the execution of the sentence. If the criminal intends to repeat the crime or, worse, take revenge on his victim, he can unfortunately do so not only in the case of release, but also in the course of a banal permit, one of many, too many permits generously granted by our ultra-permissive penitentiary system. I could go on for a long time, but the Minister doesn't care, he's interested in chat anymore. President, the Minister consults the chat: this is the respect of Parliament. I could continue for a long time, for example by recalling Article 604-c of the penal code proposed by all minorities, right-wing and left-wing, aimed at establishing the crime of incitement to criminals for reasons of gender discrimination. We had to settle for an agenda. But I'm stopping so I don't abuse my time. I therefore repeat my Group's vote in favour, although I regret that the Government and the majority did not want to accept even one of the many good suggestions that minorities have proposed; all minorities, including the PD. Criticizing a Member's behavior does not mean attacking a party; if that party wants to do exactly the behavior of that Member is a problem of the party, certainly not of those who stigmatize that behavior. We would have liked many of these amendments to be accepted, because this would have allowed the qualitative leap that could have been made with this measure; but that was not the case. Let us be content with what has been done. We regret, in particular, that the amendments aimed at increasing the protection and rights of victims, greater protection and greater protection of victims, which could have been included in this rule, have not been accepted. Returning to the House to finally approve the bill under consideration in fifteen days, with these few technical interventions, but also legally founded proposed by minorities, would not have had any negative consequences, but would have enriched the law. Therefore, while we regret that this has not been done and that the resources necessary to make a good paper law also a good law in its practical application have been denied, we announce the vote in favour. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u285	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, senators and fellow senators, here we go again. Once again we have to say in this House: 'We are back.' Once again, a measure of extreme importance, which should have and could have given a serious and shared response by all to the widespread demand for equality and equality between genders, enshrined in the Constitution, and which could have responded to the request for the security of persons interested in gender equality, is instead resolved in the umpteenth advertising campaign of this Government. You see, Minister, you have arrived here today - and I thank you for your presence, it is nice to have you here - with a red bow. I hope this is the symbol of the fight against AIDS. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , as had originally been conceived that red bow, and that it is not a reference to the red code, because, if it were so, it would be an offense to those women who were waiting for this measure and who instead were mortified once again. This measure is an insult to this House, it is an insult to the opposition, it is an insult to our Constitution and, finally, it is an insult also to yourselves, because you are abdicating, colleagues of the majority, to the role that popular suffrage had assigned to you and you are abdicating to the role that the Constitution has assigned to you. This measure follows a well-established and sadly well-known line, as I have been able to say several times both in this House and in the Commission. This is yet another attack on the democratic system of this country (let's face it). This government claims to overcome the separation of powers, pretending to bring with it the basic principles of our democratic system, but in fact gradually focusing everything in the hands of the few. The Minister of Justice had come here several times to tell us that his measures were always the result of a serious confrontation with all the practitioners of justice: lawyering, judiciary, practitioners of the judicial world. Well, he has denied himself here, because he is also a prisoner of this Government, as are all the colleagues in the majority; today he has shown that he has not heard anything he has said during the hearings. This confirms that there is someone who decides outside the classrooms what the process and the meaning of a measure must be, and then he will be ready in the Chamber. It has happened a thousand times; we always refer to the history of the budget law, because it is the most emblematic case, but in fact, when we arrive in this House, the measures are already beautiful and ready. Then, in fact, they do not produce any effect and they resolve - as I said - in a commercial. The hearings held in the Commission confirmed all the concerns expressed and well described by colleagues of the oppositions that have intervened. During the hearings, it was requested that very important changes be made so that this measure could have positive effects. We have proposed amendments, which collected the comments of very authoritative people, who live in everyday life the problems inherent in this measure: the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the lawyering, the prosecutors of the Republic who deal specifically with these issues. Well, nothing has been done; all the amendments have been rejected. We asked for the speakers and representatives of the government to give an explanation of this embarrassing silence, but still total silence. No explanation has been given to the many questions on the grounds for refusing to adopt amendments which would in fact have allowed this measure to produce effects: tomb silence. This obviously says a lot about the respect that the Government has towards Parliament, reduced to having to uncritically approve any measures imposed by the Government itself. It is also clear - as I said - the attack on the judiciary, whose demands and suggestions remain unheard of, and which undermines its discretion. I have repeated this several times, because it has happened several times in the course of the adoption of measures in the Justice Commission. The independence and discretion of the judiciary itself has been undermined, even in this measure. Then, colleagues, wake up once more, take back the role that the Constitution has assigned to you. It is the Commission that has to answer Parliament, not the other way around; it is Parliament that is systematically responding to the Commission's orders. We cannot continue to move forward in a democratic system with this state of affairs. We have worked under these sad conditions, in which the availability shown by the Democratic Party, also in view of the undeniable meritorious aims of this measure, has been unjustifiedly mortified and systematically refused. All the proposals were aimed exclusively at improving the measure and, as I said, criticism came from the protagonists of the world who deal with these events. Well, once again we have lost the opportunity to give a serious and wide-ranging response to the urgent need to combat gender violence, a phenomenon which unfortunately has become an emergency in our country, thus promoting an effective protection of women, all too often affirmed but rarely really realized, this time by a clear declaration of this Government, which has recognized that the measure under consideration will not have any effect. But he claims that he will remedy it later, but when? Why approve a measure that you are aware of will not affect? Why do it this way? These questions have not been answered. We have been told that it was urgent, but we are absolutely convinced that a clear change of pace was necessary to give impetus to the new course that everyone wanted towards a radical change of mentality, unfortunately still too widespread. It was an opportunity to tackle the problem synergistically and with maximum sharing, not only as a response to the emergency and the need for security, but also with a measure that looked after widespread education on gender equality. To do this there is a need to intervene on training, we have said it and it is also reported within the measure itself; I am referring therefore to training processes of all the subjects called to deal with the problem, starting from the teachers, the school, the police forces, the magistrates and psychologists, from all those who work in this world. However, courses are expected, but no resources are allocated; on the contrary, there is a refusal: even where the expenditure chapters had been identified, they were all systematically rejected. It is therefore clear that behind this attitude there is an ideological position of the majority, who pretends to pursue gender equality, the loud voice: remember the announcements made in the aftermath of the approval in the Government of this measure, but then in fact it is not in a position to deploy any effect. I do not have to recall the criticalities of the measure under consideration, because all my colleagues who preceded me in the general debate have done so in a comprehensive and excellent way, but I merely point out, for example, the content of Article 3, that within three days the prosecutor must feel the victim of violence. Well, without distinction, all the auditors have said that this measure is harmful, it can even have harmful effects. What listening has been given to these words? The Minister had told us that the Government still dialogues daily with these subjects, yet everyone has carried forward that reasoning that has been regularly mortified, leading us to approve uncritically and without an explanation a measure full of criticality and in the awareness that it will not displeasure any effect. Once again, we are approving it. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that several proposals filed by the Democratic Party have also been incorporated into the text: I am referring to measures on forced marriages, so-called revenge porn, and permanent injuries. However, we have tried to make improvements with an approach characterised primarily by dialogue and discussion to improve the text, but we have regularly bumped into an impenetrable rubber wall, which says a lot about the real intentions of this Government. Putting the emphasis on the clause of financial invariance, which does not allocate a euro on a measure that needs large resources, we can only say that the Democratic Party, while sharing the meritorious aims of the text and appreciating some rules contained in it, is forced to express a vote of abstention precisely in the awareness that it is only the umpteenth commercial that will not produce the desired effects by pursuing only electoral purposes. But the people, the people, the women of this country and all the operators in the sector expected something different from this government. You will also be called to respond to the approval of yet another measure that is of no use at all, but will constitute a further obstacle in the judicial world, and of this surely the magistrates will ask us and ask you for account. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u286	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u288	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, before speaking in an explanation of vote, I would like to refer to a few statements made by Senator Malan in his last speech, which I think are low-level. I want to make a service communication and say that the Senators of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group are thinking senators, with a brain, who collaborate and work hard in this Assembly and are not puppets who carry out only commands, so Senator Malan can throw these statements back in his pocket. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] After all, today should be a day without controversy. Today is in fact a historic day. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Yeah, it's a historic day. The Red Code will become a law and I hope that this House will speak unanimously on a decisive measure to improve the safety of us women. Today this House has the task of achieving an important goal, not only for politics, but for all of us women. We want to dedicate this measure to all those women who, unfortunately, are no longer among us today, with the aim of preventing women from being left alone and at the mercy of their own executioners. We owe it to Deborah, Savona's 39-year-old, who, despite the 19 complaints against her ex-husband, was not heard and, in fact, was left alone. The Red Code introduces the obligation of the prosecutor to listen to the complainant in the next three days: if this had happened in the past too, Deborah, most likely killed with four gunshots, would still be on that stage singing to life. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Today the controversy is at zero: there are no mitigating factors, there are no alibi. This intervention must be a top priority for all of us. Protection and assistance must be guaranteed right from the start: gender-based violence must be considered an emergency. By now it is becoming a fashion to point the finger anyway, always and regardless to Matteo Salvini or the League: too many times I have heard that the feminicides in Italy have increased because of us. I would like to emphasise in this House, because it is probably someone who has escaped, that it was our Minister of the Interior who strongly wanted these measures to protect women to be included in the government contract. Precisely for this reason, thanks to the text written by the Minister of the Bongiorno League and Minister Bonafede, we wanted to respond to the increasing number of violence phenomena that to date see 91 women killed in the last thirteen months, about one every seventy-two hours: 123 are the women killed in 2017, 106 those killed in 2018, more than 90 percent at the hands of a man, more than 80 percent by known people. Finally, today it becomes a text born precisely from the great sensitivity of Minister Bongiorno, who throughout all these years has fought forcefully in support of women victims of ill-treatment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Maiorino.]] Within the measure there are new measures compared to the past. For the ill-treatment in the family the penalties have increased up to seven years and the same further, if the fact happens in the presence or to the detriment of a minor, a pregnant woman, a disabled person or if the attack is armed. In cases of sexual violence, penalties are increased to 12 years of imprisonment. I would also like to point out that the penal code is enriched by a specific article on cases of aggression against a person, with permanent facial injuries until their appearance is distorted. The person responsible is punished with imprisonment from eight to fourteen years. If the eviction causes the victim to die, life is taken and for those convicted it will then be more difficult to get benefits such as work out of prison, premium permits and alternative measures. Finally with the code red we introduce the crime of revenge porn, which punishes disclosure through social networks or chat of facts and personal photos depicting victims in acts of sexual intimacy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The numbers speak for themselves: 6,500 young people admitted sending intimate images to their partners. We are talking about children between the ages of thirteen and eighteen years and 24 percent of them saw the photos shared without their consent, a very serious episode, which often ends in silence and omerty. In this regard, I refer to Senator Caliendo's criticism of the amendment that has not been adopted. There are ad hoc bills, one signed by Senator Calderoli and another signed by Senator Donno, in the matter of cyberbullying, Internet and minors, which have already been assigned to the respective Commissions of merit: it is an argument that must be managed apart from the delicacy and for the population to which it refers. The approved text provides that anyone who sends, delivers, surrenders, publishes or distributes images or videos of sexual organs or sexually explicit content, destined to remain private, without the consent of the persons represented, is punished with imprisonment from one to six years and with the fine from 5,000 to 15,000 euros. Our children must understand the seriousness of these facts and those who do them must take responsibility for it: never more young people and women who kill themselves for the shame of seeing their own images disseminated through social or chat. And how can we fail to remember, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the amendment that finally says is enough for coercive marriages. Let us be clear on this point: "Whoever induces some to contract marriage or civil union by violence, threat, or take advantage of a situation of physical or psychic inferiority or persuasion based on religious precepts is punished with imprisonment from one to five years." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The rule provides that the crime is punishable even if it is committed abroad to the detriment of a citizen or a foreigner legally resident in Italy. Too often we still feel of girls and girls forced to marry, especially by religious precepts, against their own will. It is our job to protect them. Year 2019, women killed: Luisa Minghè, Luisa Zardo, Marisa Sartori, Maria Sestina Arcuri, Ghizlan El Hadraoui, Neda Vannoni, Claudia Bortolozzo, Norina Matuozzo, Alessandra Immacolata Musarra, Fortuna Bellisario, Rosalia Lagumina, Roberta Priore, Khaddouj Hannioui, Hong Songmei, Romina Meloni, Loredana Calì, Benedicta Daniel, Anna Lisa Ravenna, Andreina Paganoni, Elena Caprio, Clementina Spada, Romina Iannicelli, Elvira Bruno, Licia Zambon, Lucia Benedetto, Alice Bredice, Erika Cavalli, Carmen Vermica, Damia El Essali, Agurita Istrate, Anna Cassalia, Mileidy Verdial Canales, Marianna Sandonà, Elisa Ciotti, Maria Corazza, Gloria Danho, Roberta Perillo and - last July 13th. To each of them we dedicate a memory. Vote in favour of this measure today is also for them; it is a necessary act for these women who are no longer there, for all those women who have not had justice until now, and who have not received the necessary protection. Today this gap is being filled. It will certainly also be necessary to plan social policies and serious and targeted investments, such as initiatives in schools and student training programmes in order to prevent violence against women, also declined on a proper use of the web, aimed at strengthening awareness of what can be the dramatic consequences, avoiding superficial, incorrect and sometimes criminal use of these tools. This text is intended to be the incentive for women to denounce without being more afraid, having the guarantee of an autonomous and preferential lane. In this House we women represent 34% of the senators, and that is precisely what I would like to invite my fellow men to think about. I'd like them to try for a moment to imagine how a woman who was a victim of violence feels. I can assure you that a woman always loses. Violence against women has no passport; there are no victims, no serious pains A and B. I am convinced that, by approving this text today, we will demonstrate that we will have clearly and precisely regulated male violence against women. Today we transform that hope into law and restore trust to those who no longer believed in the strength and closeness of institutions, because this is also what those who suffer or who have suffered need. For these reasons, I am absolutely unanimous and convinced of the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u289	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u291	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on the title, a very good title, a pity that this measure is a bit like wanting to build a house from the roof without taking care of the foundations. We members of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, but also our colleagues in the Commission of Justice know this, having listened to and deepened the data, we know that 98% of the abusers are a man, we know that of this 98% 80% are husbands, ex-husbands, comrades and children, but in this measure there is practically no trace of the focal theme, which is the re-education of abusive men. If the problem is men, why not invest to solve the problem at the root? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The women victims of violence in Italy, according to official data, are one in three, between sixteen and seventy years old, have suffered various types and forms of violence, from physical and economic segregation to physical intimidation, beatings and obviously sexual violence. Where's the net? Where's the culture? Where is that culture that doesn't even allow women to have the courage to denounce? Only 10% of women in Italy report. This certainly protects us from something probably not exact said yesterday, namely that it will be the three days of the code red that will eradicate the false accusations. There are no false accusations, there are only dramas and human paths that lead many women to take a step back, to decide not to denounce, to decide to stay alive with torturers, to shelter their children, even before themselves, from the expulsion. [[Applause from Senator Masini]] There is this automatism whereby all complaints pass through the prosecutor's office, where they must be judged, but they do not give the proxy the tools to specialize, nor the staff. How can we imagine that the prosecutors can listen, apart from the fact that it is appropriate to do so, and that they still do not delegate to that same judicial police that three days before has already collected the complaint and has already punctually reported on the circumstance of the fact? In Italy, one in three women dies even after denouncing, a woman every two and a half days. This tells us that perhaps the problem is the taking on of women, what is missing in Italy is what the Istanbul Convention recommended, that is, the integrated take on, the integrated network of bodies and institutions that allows women not to be alone, from the first moment of the report, passing through the warning, the complaint, the complaint, the process, until the reintegration into the working world. If women are killed even after having denounced, unfortunately, many times, it is because this path does not work. Coming to the legal order, which is the subject of today, it is clear that this is a problem that has very deep cultural and legal roots. Until just a few years ago, our legal system was marked by violence, until the reform of family law the woman was subordinate to man, until the eighties there was the crime of honor, until the sixties there was the ius corrigendi in Italy, so it is clear that all this has very deep roots. Today, however, the legal order is perhaps the last thing that needs to be corrected, because it is good, it is a legal order that all governments have tried to correct, Forza Italia in the first place did battles, from stalking to revenge porn, to funds for victims of violence, but the legal order did not guarantee us neither yesterday nor today to make the numbers drop. We're still here to tell us that the murders in Italy are falling, but that the feminicides compared to the murders are growing. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Group]] It is therefore clear that the legal order, that punishment does not solve the problem. The amendments tabled by my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and by our colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, after listening to them, have been the result of work which we ourselves have experienced and wanted, not for ourselves, not to put a flag under the heading of politics, but to respond to a problem which is serious, structural and public. It is serious because it is widespread: almost 7 million women in Italy between the sixteen and the seventy are a huge number. It is structural because it affects all sections of the population: age, work, training; it involves everyone, there is no prototype. We heard yesterday about criminals: they are not criminals; in most cases they are not even men who are addicted to alcohol or drugs. They are men who, in other areas of their lives, function, but who have considerable relationship problems in their interpersonal relationship; they see women as subordinate beings and act violence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators De Petris and Valente]] If, then, there is one thing that needs to be done, it is to deal with the problem. I use a metaphor that we use when we have talks with the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide: if you have a broken sprinkler, do you continue to dry the puddle or fix the sprinkler? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Valente]] Maybe this is where we had to act. When the quaestor makes the warning, why not attach an injunction for course attendance? When there are precautionary measures, why not use this measure to add other parallel precautionary measures by obliging you to attend the course? Article 6 does something, but not enough. I'll tell you why. First of all, the reeducation course is linked to the benefits; secondly, it is voluntary. Linking to procedural benefits or other types of benefits in civil matters does not help to solve the real problem, which is man's awareness of having acted on a completely abnormal behavior; it is of course a crime, but it is an abnormal behavior for society. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Courses must be made compulsory, as well as in Spain, and should be untied to benefits. The benefit must be for society; it must be for Italy, it must prevent there from being any further victims; it must avoid relapses; it must save the State those 17 billion which spends dramatically every year because of violence. The measure in our examination is a bit like starting from the roof without solving the problem from the foundations: we do not even touch the aspect of formation except for the Forces of Order. And the magistrates, the lawyers, the CTUs, the doctors in the hospitals who diagnose? Who makes them? Who? Does the State invest in the training and ability of these people to be able to recognize the situation, to really help? No, it doesn't. Coming to the provision, which is punishment, we would have wanted to do something more. The slogan, the red code, the three days: we are interested. I'm guessing you guys were interested in the file not picking up dust. This does not coincide with the fact that the victim must be heard within three days; it does not coincide. She's already been heard by law enforcement. Another problem. We all say that it is the woman who is victimized a second time because it is the woman who is removed from the family home to be protected and very often also takes away parental responsibility. From this point of view, why can't delayed flagrantness and detention be tools to solve the problem and reverse the order of factors, as the Istanbul Convention tells us? Since the time is almost up, I will say that as members of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide tomorrow we will be present at the press conference to present the strategic and operational plan against violence because we want to work together to solve the problem, but we also expect the Government: that there is when the Commission on Femicide, with all the Members who want, will present a draft parliamentary law - because for us there is Parliament at the heart of everything [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] - to put everything necessary in order again to do the only thing in the title: to protect. The measure under examination does not protect. Our vote will be in favour because every small step in the direction must be supported, but this is really a very small step. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u294	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I am new to this institution. Like so many others here, this is my first parliamentary term. There is an episode that I have been particularly impressed with in my first days in this institution and that I would like to share with you today, because it is an episode that has been repeated two or three times and that assumes, therefore, a significant significance. It happened, in fact, at the beginning of this legislature, that, perhaps, walking through the corridors of the Senate together with a fellow man, someone appealed to us as follows: "Good morning, Senator. Is that your assistant?". Or, "Hello, Senator. Is that your wife?" This has happened more than once. And it's not like the fellow man was better known than me. Famousness, in this case, could have been an excuse for this adventurous hypothesis. Simply, it made itself explicit with words a mental optic distortion of which we are all victims and many unaware. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That mental optic distortion that our mind is automatically induced to put the man in the foreground and the woman in the background. Or, I might recall the other episode, when I first took the floor in this House, and from these very benches someone thought well to yell at me to go back to the kitchen. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD group]] It left me so surprised that I believed, until the last moment, that I had misunderstood. In fact, I didn't answer. Instead, it was the sad reality. [[Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Sudan]] There's the recording. I could also explain to you the data Istat, which certify, once more and without possibility of error, that women are still penalized in the world of work, precisely as women; and that on them, that is, on us, still weighs much of the weight of domestic work and of the work of care. The birth of the children, then, still often determines the need to choose between the career and the family: choice to which only the woman is placed, because of a structural lack of family welfare policies. Again, I could tell you about the pay gap that divides women from men or the crystal ceiling that prevents us from reaching the top of companies and the need, therefore, to introduce gender quotas to overcome all these obstacles. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In short, I could tell you about an entire society that is under the influence of that mental optic distortion that I was talking about before, which determines the fatigue, which still makes this society, to focus the woman as a subject of equal rights in the reality of the facts and not on paper. At this point, perhaps some of you will be wondering what all this has to do with violence against women: what does it have to do with feminicides, which do not diminish, while murders seem to fall; what does all this have to do with the "red code" measure, which we are going to vote on. Well, perhaps some are wondering, but not the most well - known and the most knowledgeable. Some of us know, in fact, that this is precisely the framework on which violence against women is taking place and that it is not possible to combat gender violence without implementing genuine and serious gender equality policies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Violence against women is a monster of many heads and does not have a single cause. It has many ancient causes, rooted in a centuries-old culture that has only begun to give way to a more civilized view of the relationship between the sexes for a few decades. The way in which a woman is perceived in society and the image that the woman is constantly reproposed by it are the litmusol map of this difficult passage that we find ourselves living and our responsibility is finally to adopt and promote the use of a language that is free from stereotypes, offensive clichés and sexism. In this regard, I would like to thank Minister Bongiorno and Undersecretary Spadafora for the fine initiative of the directive on language to be adopted in the public administration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] There is enormous cultural work to be done to combat and prevent violence against women. We are aware of all this and we are working hard with the Commission to attack the phenomenon in every respect. Without prejudice to this awareness, i.e. that it remains necessary to accompany the text of the code of red with deep and courageous cultural, labour and socio-economic interventions on which we are already committed, it can be said today, however, that the measure we are preparing to vote on in this House is not a step forward, but a leap forward in the fight against violence against women. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] As a woman, as a political exponent and as an Italian I am particularly proud of this articulated measure that puts our country, Italy, at the forefront and among the most advanced countries in the world in the matter of combating violence against women. And I sincerely regret that the oppositions, the Democratic Party in particular, have lost this opportunity to show that they are truly at the side of women, beyond the political fences, thus certifying once again the distance that separates them from the real world. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Members of the opposition say that the text could be further improved. Of course, no law is perfect and their contribution has been widely accepted in the House of Deputies. Now, however, it is urgent for the measure to take action immediately, because women can no longer wait. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] They can no longer wait because now, at last, one overcomes the unbearable incongruity that saw a woman finally find the courage to denounce and then the same denunciation remain firm on some desk for not knowing how long and in the meantime the woman remained alone and exposed to serious dangers, even at risk of life. Now, at last, complaints for domestic violence will be dealt with with with the urgency and attention they deserve, because the magistrate has an obligation to raise the complainant within three days. This is the heart of the measure: to set a certain and fast deadline for taking charge of the denunciation of domestic violence. Even though he had denounced it, we read in the newspapers: this cannot and must no longer happen. A woman who finds the courage to denounce, often comes to such a decision through an inner painful and troubled path. To let this act of courage fall into the void is unacceptable. But there is much more to this provision: there is the will of the legislator to investigate the phenomenon of violence against women without fear of looking into the most repugnant folds of the limit to which violence can be pushed. It's just yesterday's news of a man who, after killing his ex-wife with gunshots, told the police: I'm not sorry, I'm just sorry I hurt the baby, too. Or someone else, who tried to kill his wife and daughter with a hammer. This measure, as I said, investigates without fear even in the most repugnant folds of violence and hatred against women and also inserts a whole new series of offences that were not even contemplated before. I am thinking of the measures against revenge porn, a cowardly act, or the responses that are finally given to the victims of violence; responses considered urgent not only by the public, but also by the professionals, such as lawyers, judges, law enforcement agencies, representatives of the National Health Service and the same victims of violence with which I have had occasion to speak. Even more relevant, perhaps, because it gives the creeps, it was the need, appropriately seen by the legislator, to regulate those cases of personal injuries that are not inflicted directly to hurt or kill, but to do something probably more aberrant, that is to deform forever the face and appearance of a person, most of the times a woman. For about ten years this chilling practice has spread in our country. The first version of this measure called it "murder of identity," because it is precisely this: mutilate and mortify the self of the person. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed, Senator Maiorino. MAIORIN (M5S). We all know of cases where the assailant of women then subjected to dozens of surgeries got out of jail before they even got out of the hospital. This won't happen again. I'm gonna go finish because my time is up. It is for all these reasons, although I have not had the opportunity to list them all, that, as the Parent Company in the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, I am particularly proud of this measure. And it is therefore with full conviction and in all conscience that I announce the favorable vote of my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u295	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1200, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 174, 229, 295, 335, 548 and 662.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u296	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1383. The rapporteur, Senator Accoto, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio.]] I urge those Members who are moving away, to do so in accordance with the work of this House, which is continuing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u297	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this decree-law is part of the set of measures taken in the context of the negotiation initiated by the Italian Government with the European Commission on compliance with the public debt rule of the Stability and Growth Pact for 2018. On 5 June 2019, the European Commission published a report pursuant to Article 126 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to examine Italy's compliance in 2018 with the government debt rule. As part of the negotiation initiated by the report, the Italian Government proposed, in a letter sent to the European Commission on 2 July 2019, to adopt by the 2019 settling law a series of measures that will result in a correction of the budget balance of € 7.6 billion (0.42 percent of GDP) in nominal terms, corresponding to € 8.2 billion (0.45 percent of GDP) in structural terms. These are, in particular, more revenue than expected for around €6.2 billion, due to higher tax revenues of €2.9 billion, higher contributions of €0.6 billion and other revenue related to higher dividends from the Bank of Italy and the Cassa depositi e loani per €2.7 billion. In addition, the expected savings in 2019 from the lower use of budgeted resources for the implementation of the provisions on the introduction of citizenship income and the treatment of early pension share 100 contribute to the budgetary correction. To safeguard the effective realization of such savings for an amount of at least 1,5 billion euros in 2019, with the decree-law under consideration the Government has arranged the provision of a corresponding amount of the budget allocations in terms of competence and cash indicated in Annex 1 to the decree itself. The budgetary adjustment and the provisions contained in the Decree-Law under consideration ensure that the higher revenue and lower expenditure incurred so far is used for the reduction of net debt and public debt and are not intended for other measures in the course of 2019. To this end, the legislation on citizenship income and quota 100 has been amended to prevent the re-use of any economies related to the two spending programmes. In its communication to the Council of the European Union of 3 July 2019, the European Commission concluded that the measures proposed by the Italian Government to improve public finance balances are sufficient to prevent at this stage the initiation of a procedure for non-observation of the public debt rule of 2018. Coming to the merits of the measure under consideration, it contains some amendments to the provisions of Decree-Law No 4 of 2019 aimed at safeguarding the savings expected in 2019 resulting from the reduced use of the resources entered in the State budget for the implementation of the provisions relating to the introduction of citizenship income and the treatment of early pension quota 100. To this end, Article 1, paragraph 1, provides that for the year 2019 the expenditure savings and the greater revenue deriving from the reduced use of the resources entered in the State budget for the implementation of provisions relating to the introduction of the income of citizenship and quota 100 constitute economies of budget or are paid at the entry of the State budget in order to be destined to the improvement of the balances of public finances. Moreover, in order to guarantee the effective realization of savings for an amount equal to at least 1,5 billion euros in 2019, Article 1, paragraph 2, provides the provision of a corresponding amount of the budget allocations in terms of competence and cash indicated in Annex 1 to the measure that are made unavailable for management. In particular, as many as 1,320 million earmarked, equal to 88 per cent of the total, affix to reserve and special funds. All the ministries have set aside a share of the mission Institutional and general services of the public administrations (the sum is equal to 109.5 million euros, about 7 percent of the total). The remaining items are funds to be allocated to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for 60 million (about 4% of the total), financial relations with local authorities for 10 million and representation abroad and services to citizens and businesses for 0.4 million euros. In order to allow the central government of the State the necessary flexibility is allowed by decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance, to be communicated to the Chambers at the request of the Ministers concerned, the possibility to alter the aforementioned provisions within the states of forecast of the expenditure, guaranteeing however the neutrality of the effects on the balances of public finances. Paragraph 3 of Article 1 provides that, on the basis of the reporting of the burdens incurred and the evaluation of the burdens still to be incurred by the end of the current year for the income of citizenship and the treatment of 100 quota, communicated by 15 September 2019 by the INPS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with resolution of the Council of Ministers and on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and Finance, the aforementioned provisions are confirmed or made available for the current exercise. Finally, paragraph 4 of Article 1 repeals the current provisions provided for in Article 1, paragraph 257, third and fourth periods, of Law No 145 of 2018 (Budget Act 2019) and in Article 12, paragraph 11, of the aforementioned Decree-Law No 4 of 2019, which govern the procedures for the establishment and the destination of any savings related to the resources for the income of citizenship and for the treatment of early pension 100 to the appropriate funds of the budget of the State intended for such treatments, with the purpose of compensation between the two aforementioned funds and also for the purpose of the allocation of resources exceeding the centres for employment, for the strengthening of the same. In the course of the examination in the Commission of the measure, the Government has made available to the senators a note of the General Accounting of the State containing some information on the text of the measure, also in the light of the questions posed in the course of the debate, in order to clarify that the assessment of an improvement of 1,5 billion euros for the year 2019 in terms of net indebtedness and needs compared to the forecasts of the DEF takes into account what already discounted in the DEF 2019 regarding the progressive implementation of the measures in question, the applications received and in particular those foreseeable until the end of the year, as well as the relative receptions and disbursements, and the administrative process of implementation of the measures under consideration. The same note confirms the possibility of achieving, compared to already foreseen in the DEF 2019, total economies of about 1,5 billion euros, including the possible effects in terms of greater contributory revenue resulting from a non-full implementation of the contributory incentives referred to in Article 8 of Decree-Law No 4 of 2019, for which the related administrative procedures are still being implemented. During yesterday's hearings, further evidence was found to confirm the appropriateness of the estimates underlying the measure. The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, during the hearing in the Chamber and Senate Budget Committees, has evidenced that of the 1,5 billion euros provided, 1,3 billion euros belong to the unit of vote Reserve and special funds of the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The 2019 budget law allocated € 5.4 billion to this voting unit, while providing provisions for the same amount for €450 million (within the €2 billion of total provisions that the adjustment has definitively turned into reductions). Of the initial resources, 3.5 billion euros affix to the special funds for the reassignment of the remaining liabilities (1,5 billion euros on that of the current part, 2 billion euros on that of the capital part); the remaining resources are placed mainly on the fund for the compulsory expenditures (0,9 billion euros) and on the fund for the unexpected expenses (0,4 billion euros). The adjustment, making effective the cut of 450 million euros envisaged by the budget law, has reduced by 150 million euros the resources destined to the re-enrollment in the budget of residual principal accountants, 50 million euros of those of current part and 130 million euros and 120 million euros, respectively, the reserve fund for the compulsory expenditures and that for the unexpected expenses. The package therefore leads to an improvement in general government net debt of €7.6 billion for 2019, with a reduction in the deficit level from 2.4 percent of GDP, foreseen by the April DEF, to 1.9 percent. (Applause from the right) With reference to the assurances requested regarding the actual amount of expenditure savings resulting from the reduced use of resources entered in the State budget for the implementation of citizenship income and 100 quota, the INPS, at the hearing, provided reassuring data for the two institutions. Specifically, with reference to the 100 applications received since the entry into force of the provision until 30 June, the data reported by the INPS show a stationary dynamic of the phenomenon during the last quarter, after the surge to the initial stock, which has therefore allowed a substantial revision of the respective items of expenditure. Similarly, on the basis of the monitoring activities carried out on applications submitted until May, separately on citizenship income and citizenship pension, the amount spent and set aside for the year 2019 for paid benefits has been deducted. As Minister Tria reiterated during the hearing, the measures taken with the measure under consideration and the 2019 budgetary adjustment allowed to strengthen national credibility and confidence in the country without reducing the planned expenditure. An excessive deficit procedure has thus been avoided and, with it, the call for restrictive budgetary policy measures that would have been counterproductive to the economy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u298	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u299	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has made it necessary to strengthen national credibility without reducing the planned expenditure. With a view to improving public finance balances, it was intended to safeguard the expected savings in 2019, resulting from the reduced use of resources for the implementation of the two key measures of the 2019 budget: share 100 and citizenship income. Thus, an excessive deficit procedure was avoided, which Europe wanted to initiate against Italy on the basis of the results of the 2018 review. We are therefore talking about excessive deficits and violation of the debt rule for the years 2017-2018. But when did this government of ours start operating? The first maneuver at the end of 2018 can only have had its first effects from the second quarter of 2019, so the effects are starting to feel now. The impression, in my brief experience as a Member of Parliament, is that we are still - let me say the word - tying up those holes that have certainly not been created by our management. But let's look forward. Authoribili agencies of international analysis - and this is not reported in the newspapers or the mass media - report of an Italian economic picture more positive than the other Countries, with an increase level of confidence of the Italian enterprises on the future perspectives of activity, employment and spending on investments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This, despite the undoubted new phase of the negative situation that Europe is going through and, in particular, Germany, whose data demonstrate a profound crisis of production and export. Let us not forget that the large German companies, particularly in the automotive sector, when they have to supply precision mechanical components, are aimed at Italian companies, sometimes small artisans, which must therefore be protected from the contraction of foreign orders. In fact, these small companies are the driving force behind our economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of course, the public finance framework is also geared towards restoring confidence on the part of the markets. In this respect, it is good that the infringement procedure has been avoided. Yesterday, in a day of hearings, we were able to see a general positive trend on several fronts: positive is the rebound of the construction industry; positive is the growth of employment: the Istat data of May report +36,000 permanent employees, +18,000 future employees and +12,000 self-employed (let's not forget the introduction of the new facilities for the minimum regime), the highest level since the beginning of these surveys, since 1996. Positive is the development of the balances of public finance, with an improvement of the estimates of net balance to be financed of 1,9 billion in terms of competence and 3,4 in terms of cash, with an improvement of the net debt of approximately 6 billion. The trend towards the re-emergence of black is positive, with a surprisingly favourable trend in tax revenues. In the first five months of 2019, VAT on domestic trade grew by 4.6 percent, an increase expected to be 2.8% in the DEF. Positive was the hearing we had with the INPS about 100 share and citizenship income. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It has highlighted expenditure savings resulting from the reduced use of resources, but it has also testified to the effectiveness of two measures on which we, who fortunately still live the territory, have daily responded directly with people. Mr President, perhaps we are on the right track then. Perhaps our measures, so much criticized and so many obstacles have overcome, are working. Perhaps, because caution is a must. But even if concerns about the risks of financial stability in Europe are giving way to those relating to growth (i.e. Minister Tria's hearing yesterday), then it means that the choice of expansive maneuver was the right one and that we must continue on this path. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u300	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u301	Mr President, with the decree-law that we are preparing to debate and vote today we freeze 1.5 billion euros, destined to the Ministries (of which only 1.3 billion to the Ministry of Economy), waiting for any savings due to the reduced use of the resources made available for measures such as the income of citizenship and quota 100. So if we take note today that we could save EUR 1.5 billion from the two key measures of the yellow-green government, I have to conclude that perhaps the initial accounts were wrong and not a little. I have reason to believe that the very short time with which the budget law was passed at the end of 2018, with the mid-Christmas celebrations, the stop to the commission's work and the serious risk of going far beyond the allowed deadlines, have made it possible to produce rushed and therefore wrong calculations, calculations that today we are preparing to correct with this sort of maneuver for the improvement of public finance balances. This is an improvement which we welcome, because it allows us to avoid the infringement procedure by the European Union, which would have cost us a great deal in terms of sanctions. As a founding country of the European Union, we would have made a terrible figure, not to mention the economic consequences that these sanctions would have brought to us. Nevertheless, I repeat that we are in the presence of a correction of the previous budget law, voted seven months ago; a law which, in addition to being dictated by haste, the majority of the Government wanted to make to the limit of the parameters imposed by European legislation. I suspect that the aim was to show Europe muscles, that is to say, in essence, that we could make a budget law as we wanted to and spend what we would have liked on measures of interest to us, in contempt of the strict demands of the Community. As Brothers of Italy we do not love the Europe that comes to us to reckon in our pockets and then leaves us alone on other fronts, one on all that of immigration. But we also like the seriousness, which must first come from us, from our country, from our accounts, which we must then, by necessity of things, present in the European context. If we are not serious and credible first, then we cannot demand the seriousness of our interlocutors. So, as I said before, we are very pleased that this infringement procedure has been avoided and that today we are talking about freezing the savings of EUR 1.5 billion. This does not detract from the fact that the accounts relating to the funds to be allocated to citizenship income and to 100 shares have been made and continue to be made in such a way that I would define summary or at least approximate. Until yesterday I would have said that there was no certainty about this possible savings and that we were in the presence of a hypothetical provision not based on certain data, because we still did not have the exact accounts of those who applied for retirement taking advantage of 100 quota and those who instead had demanded the income of citizenship. Yesterday I had to rethink, when in the joint committees of the Chamber and Senate, through the hearing of the president of the INPS, we were given a clarification and we were given the data related to questions and the delivery of quota 100, updated to 30 June, and those related to the income of citizenship, updated to 31 May. From this analysis the INPS estimates a greater saving, which is more than 1,081 billion euros per share 100 and 815 million euros for the income of citizenship. It is, therefore, savings from incorrect or approximate calculations, as I said earlier, of the cost of these two measures: that would be more than EUR 1.5 billion that we are putting aside here. I therefore wonder what we are putting aside and why we do not put aside as much as was officially indicated yesterday by the President of the INPS, however certain, official and definitive data and no longer estimates the INPS will provide them only in September. The other doubt I have about this freezing is that we do not have any elements that will allow us to be calm about the sustainability of this measure, which in fact subtracts EUR 1.5 billion from our Ministries. Well come the alleged savings of 100 quota and citizenship income, even if we would have preferred to save more on the income of citizenship than on 100 quota, while the data snooped in the Joint Commissions by the president of the INPS have disappointed me, because we are spending more to support the people who are at home and perceive money given by the state, rather than to favor a generational change, demolishing the Fornero reform and retiring those who have worked honestly for a lifetime. As Brothers of Italy we reaffirm that we do not like the income of citizenship because we would have preferred support for the companies they hire rather than those who stay at home because perhaps the work never even tried to look for it. The real point, however, is not what we are planning to set aside, but what we are going to do with the sums saved. This is not the right place to establish it, but as the Brothers of Italy we have already made our own proposal on an agenda, which this morning in the Budget Committee was accepted as a recommendation, in order to commit the Government, in the next budgetary maneuver, to bind the sums saved to specific measures such as support for the family and for the birth and economic policies that can defend and create work and not just such an unjustified as unproductive welfare. As far as families are concerned, we reiterate that it is time to produce a national plan of interventions, also of a fiscal nature, aimed at combating the current demographic crisis and stimulating the birth rate, with structural and permanent measures aimed at introducing measures to support families not exclusively based on monetary payments, but aimed at implementing the provision of structures and socio-educational services for children and for disability. There is no Minister Tria and I regret it, however I address him the same, because during his last hearing yesterday afternoon, I was surprised when, at some point in his speech, he said that, as regards measures for families, the income of citizenship had some impact on the poorest families. I remain grounded in these statements because I have serious doubts that the problems of Italian families will be solved with a payment of 500-600 euros per month. Supporting families means allowing women not to get into crisis when they discover a pregnancy, because they fear that it will result in a stop to their career, rather than spending on spending on keeping their newborns. Supporting families and birth is not only a question of money, but also a question of services and guarantees that are provided by the State to families and in particular to parents. Families, for example, help themselves by changing the tax system and making it lighter; for this reason, as the Fratelli d'Italia Group, we ask for the immediate introduction of flat tax for families. On the flat tax we are fed up with the announcements and ask this Government concretely for the good of our families and our businesses, which must be put in a position to return to hire. The proposal of Brothers of Italy is clear: flat tax at 15% on incremental income, which costs nothing, brings out the submerged and can be done immediately. Enough, then, with the chatter, it's time to move on to the facts. We believe that the resources saved from 100 and citizenship income should be allocated to structural measures, which could trigger a virtuous and stable mechanism for growth in GDP and employment. For Brothers of Italy, interventions on current expenditure must be avoided, rather we must act on the tax burden, reducing it, in order to give support to companies and families, without forgetting clearly infrastructure investments. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u302	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u303	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration (Act of the Senate 1383), which was converted into law by Decree-Law No 61 of 2 July 2019 on urgent measures to improve public finance balances, is closely linked to the bill: Provisions for the adjustment of the budget of the State for the financial year 2019/2019 (Act of the Senate 1388). Both of these measures together make it possible to establish numerically that there is less debt, amounting to EUR 7.606 billion, which means that the deficit-to-GDP ratio returns from 2.4 to 2.04%, i.e. to the point from which the first phase of the 2018 budget law started. This has meant that Europe has suspended the infringement procedure for Italy or that it can be avoided, and that for all of us, not for the government or for the majority, but for the country. Perhaps, if there were manoeuvres capable of producing rapid effects on investment, Europe could also tolerate a greater overtaking, as it allowed France, so that we could come up with a straight back and face to get what might be the responsibility of a nation like Italy, with a view to strong choices and accidents on the economy, employment and the creation of GDP. As other Members have already said, therefore, the savings of EUR 1.5 billion, set aside in funds to be divided subsequently, are due to the fact that it saves on the income of citizenship and on the share of 100. At 100, except for some problems in the final phase of the year, there are currently 150,000 applications compared to 250,000. In the bill for the adjustment of the budget, more revenue is foreseen for €6.24 billion: although it is easier for me to reason at municipal rather than national level, I certainly do not confuse millions and billions. Specifically, EUR 1.9 billion comes from e-invoicing (and here I confess my lack: I thought it would go the other way, but I probably don't have the perception of the economy of all of Italy); EUR 1 billion comes from other different revenue; EUR 600 million comes from contributory revenue and EUR 2.74 billion from the breakdown of the folders, which was discussed in the Commission and in this House. Then there will be increased expenditure of EUR 1,154 billion, which partly amounts to EUR 500 million, on the Development and Cohesion Fund, which means investment: I hope that they will go to the regions, which will then be able to divide them to the local authorities. Then there is less expenditure of EUR 1,020 billion. The sum of all these numbers gives, precisely, 1.5 billion euros in the bill that we go to approve, which refers to the decree-law and the future approval of the bill for the adjustment of the budget. It must be said, however, that, overall, all these figures represent less general debt. In fact, the DEF, that we have approved in recent months, establishes that for 2019 there will be a greater debt of 42 billion in terms of competence, except variations due to the residual assets and liabilities. This is an amount (42 billion or 35, if we remove the 7 of this maneuver) which is going to increase the public debt. I think that in this year - I have said this before, it is my personal fixation - we need to talk more about these things and numbers and less about the sex of angels, to know, understand, control, monitor and guide the stages of the economy that affect citizens, and also to manage. I believe that politics should take up the concept of "managing" (which should be deepened in this or other forum) and not only "directing" it. Let us also remember that the budget law provides for disposals of EUR 17.9 billion. I would like to know from the Government whether the procedures for the disposal of real estate have begun; I do not know. It also provides for amounts that face interest on public debt, which in the first phase of the year, in which the spread was a little dancer, have undoubtedly increased. We have the wealth of the primary surplus - EUR 30-31 billion - but the total amount of interest - which amounts to over EUR 60-65 billion - means that every year we are in deficit according to the amounts I mentioned earlier, included in the DEF. I am also concerned that in 2020 we must finance the safeguard clauses, which are a legacy of the past, and that we must - we want - finance the flat tax, on which Forza Italia agrees, with resources of 38 billion euros, that I do not say should be found today (we are talking about 2020) but at least hypothesized in some maneuver and with some prediction. Then there is one aspect that could give some oxygen, represented by the recruitments provided for in the budget law, which should start in November. However, I do not think they will leave, because the competitions have very long technical times. It is therefore foreseeable that savings will be made. However, recruitment, especially in the Forces of Order, is really very necessary. There are other issues on the table. We are talking about the economy and we can mention them, starting with the issue of motorway concessions: if anyone wants to revoke them, they should find EUR 25 billion. There is also Carige, which I do not think is very attractive, on which, according to the law adopted here, the State should intervene. There are pros and cons. Monte dei Paschi di Siena could be sold (at least part of the ownership of the State) with a capital gain, given the stock prices of the last few days. Then there is the issue of Alitalia and the loan of EUR 900 million that, if I reason with reason or according to my principle of nasometry, will never be repaid. There is also the question of Ilva: if the integration fund takes over, it will be problems. We therefore look forward with hope and positive sense to the measures affecting the economy, precisely because of the impact they have on all citizens of all the political categories and trends represented here. I am thinking of the fruits of the growth decree and the decree unlocks yards. I think - I say this with a constructive spirit - that the Government could, with some announcements - but it would be better here in the Chamber - report on the fruits deriving from the decree unblocks yards and from the decree growth. I repeat that I care about the basic concept of speaking to the Senate - and also to the House, of course, of the actual realities, which are legislative in nature but which also have a financial and monetary impact and, therefore, on wealth, on the spending power and on the standard of living of the population, which, I repeat, is not right-wing, neither left-wing nor anything else. It is a duty of the Government - of any government - to anticipate and analyze. For all these reasons, the numbers and the approach of this bill, which aims to produce a saving that is set aside, cannot find us opposed as Forza Italia, but for the general picture of certainties and uncertainties our Group leans for abstention. In any case, I would like to conclude with my refrain, quoted other times: we attack the public debt, otherwise the public debt will attack us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u304	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u305	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to talk about the economic and financial situation of the Italian State, with this measure concerning public finance balances. At the beginning of the legislature, and in any case also during this mandate, some political parties have often outlined scenarios that give people apocalyptic forecasts of the results of the management of this yellow-green government. I come to list some of the situations which, in my opinion, are positive and which are the result of a political debate, even heated, between the two parts of government. We note in fact: a better performance of the public accounts than the DEF of 2019, despite the international macroeconomic scenario there are no improvements; a better performance of the revenues compared to the expenditures, thanks to the measures approved by the Government, which among other things do not affect the reforms implemented in this first year of legislature; a prudential provision and improvements with an adjustment of +0.3% of GDP, more than agreed with the European Commission in December. Compared to the DEF projections of the second half of the year, there have been positive signs, industrial production has returned to growth on a monthly basis of 0.9%. The electronic invoice, which has obviously been hard to get our companies to accept, is still giving positive effects, with four billion euros of extra revenue for 2019 (300 million euros per month). As far as the revenues of the public administration are concerned, there have been more revenues from the local authorities by 1.9 percent. For fiscal peace, since the closing of the pending disputes, we have had record receipts: the first installment of 463 million euros and are expected in total 4 billion euros. Public companies are healthy or, if less healthy, have good prospects of improvement and better consolidation, higher dividends of public companies for 1,430 million euros, in addition to the 1,800 million euros already foreseen. IRPEF employees' incomes were 3.8% higher than in the previous year (the forecasts were 1.3%), all this because of a strengthening of the labour market, with employment growth of 92,000 more workers than in the previous year, of which 12,000 are self-employed. In fact, the measures of the decree of dignity have brought a progressive regularization of precarious positions to the detriment of irregular ones, (in black) together with those of the budget law in favour of youth employment, women, over fifty and young people in possession of PhD research. Well, because new jobs have been created with a flat-rate VAT rate of up to 65,000 (flat-tax). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Here I take the appeal of Senator Calandrini, who preceded me, and I lend a hand to colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars so that we all commit ourselves to raising the roof that currently is 65,000 euros per year, but that we can raise because we have seen that with the measure of flat tax we lead to an emergence of black work and more jobs. We then raised EUR 300 million from the pending tax disputes and, by freezing the savings on two key government measures - which have already been mentioned by my colleagues are 100 percent and citizenship income - we avoided the possible opening of an infringement procedure by the European Union. It follows, therefore, that common sense, our common sense, has prevailed. It should be remembered that there is a condition of great solidity of the Italian economy; not surprisingly Italy is the third economy of the Union and the second manufacture of Europe. The heated political debate between League and Movimento 5 Stars, the two parts of Government, although sometimes annoying to the people, is bearing good fruit: each side is proactive and the tight confrontation leads each side to control the other and to improve the various measures. We're one controller of the other, but we're supervisors anyway, and the benefits we're already seeing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Even if they're shy, we're seeing them. Of course, this involves a considerable amount of work, but we are paid for it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Pellegrini Marco]] I would like to appeal to my fellow Senators in the 5th Commission: we talked about balances, settlement, economic assessments. I would remind you that the budget committee of which we are members is also the Commission which provides for economic planning. I therefore call for an appeal as a member of that Commission: let us evaluate and plan whatever comes to mind in support of the victims of abuse. We have a duty to follow this issue, including by promoting the commitment of funds. I am thinking of the continuous polverons raised by a certain political part; their only purpose is the motto \'I stand against Salvini \'; but we are in democracy, and we have their whole opinion, but what is clear is the lack of coherence, Mr President. There is no consistency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Our commitment must be directed to the victims, against any person from any political party who has committed such crimes. We need consistency, which is why, President, I say loudly, not like them, I am against Salvini, but I am with the children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u306	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u307	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, I would like to say that it was raining. I say this because the provision today when we examined the Senate Assembly we expected, we had foreseen it, we were easy prophets. We had predicted this since, never as in the economy, the return to the real is obvious, but also inevitable. It takes some time in the economy, but then the numbers come back to talk straight and don't do discounts. This, despite the fact that the Government continues to have some difficulty in relating to that founding element that is reality. We see it well - indeed, we see it too well - even in these days, for example with Minister Salvini, who continues to publish kittens, focaccia, ice cream cups from the cloud of Instagram and who denies, indeed does not set foot, in the classrooms of a Parliament that calls him to clarify. In a year of executive, in fact, this is the second time that the government is forced to give itself a sharp braking, and landslides on the ground with the obligation to deal with those numbers that have a hard head and not in the air. I remind myself of the first stop, which has become a major camouflage operation (a measure that might come in handy perhaps on some more prudent future trip to Russia), of the deficit from 2.4% to 2.04: there had never been a reading of the second decimal in any House, not only of Parliament, not just of a Commission, but of any institution of second degree: a real creature out of the House and associated. Today, on the other hand, we have a piece of corrective manoeuvre in this House that you, the majority of you, the Government, are struggling not to call that. But it is the season of the new names; you started it more than a year ago, when the Government involved became a government contract.When the unelected President became a people's lawyer, when the pardons began to call themselves fiscal peace. Therefore, I ban controversy over the current nominalism. Today we are faced with a measure that is part of a set of measures taken in the context of the negotiation initiated by the Italian Government with the European Commission on the respect of the rule of public debt and the Stability and Growth Pact for the year 2018 and that, at the moment, allows us to declare how the infringement procedure against us for 2019 escaped; while it is good to remember that for 2020 the commitment to a structural reduction of the deficit remains at the head of the Government to respect the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. We are, therefore, voting today on the conversion of a decree-law into law, and soon a draft law that has its roots and their reasons in the inaccuracies of the forecasts, not only of the macroeconomic framework but also of that of expenditure. This inexactness is also associated with a severe programming error, which in fact can be read as a real unconditional surrender, like the waving of a white flag. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 repeals, in fact, those rules of the fiscal law 2019 aimed at assigning any savings of the income of citizenship and of quota 100, respectively, to measures in favor of families and for the recruitment of young people. With this repeal the government archives the dreams of glory and admits the whole limit of an economic policy that is not standing and cannot stand only thanks to the desired propaganda. Together with that white flag that you waved, we deliver, in fact, also those two billion euro frozen to improve the trend of public finance. What you see emerging from your year of economic management of the country is a profound difficulty in dealing with the real problems, the strategic problems, to which you respond with a continuous grunt of announcements, that leave, as we well see today, the time they find. I believe that this is not the way to govern, let alone the basis on which to graft a growth circuit that - I remind myself first - is based on trust. Trust presupposes seriousness and credibility, which happens to be the first victims of your propaganda. A propaganda that sees more and more the Ministers of this Government engaged in playing roles not proper to their delegation and that create confusion and discomfort in the country. I believe this decree-law calls you back to the harsh reality of numbers. I hope that from now on your approach to the government of the country and the state budget will change profoundly, because we are playing on the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u308	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u309	Mr President, the measure we are debating is part of a very substantial corrective action which has enabled our country, as my colleagues have reminded us, to avoid the formal opening of an excessive deficit procedure. That's good news for Italy. We said so and pointed it out. The start of the procedure would have been a disaster, would have put us under protection for years and would have tied our hands, closing to any space of autonomous management of the economic policy of our country. It is a good thing, Mr President, that the party responsible for managing relations with Europe prevailed over the party of adventurers and junkyards. It is a movie that we had seen in many ways in December, by a majority that had shouted for weeks saying "we'll pull straight," "we won't pull back a millimeter," and then it had come to terms with the negotiations with the European Commission. It also happened this time and allowed us to break the headphone to avoid the excessive deficit procedure. Of course, a very substantial corrective manoeuvre has been required. It is a term that you do not use, but corrective maneuvering is a matter. It is a maneuver with cuts, because the 2 billion euros frozen by the fiscal law 2019 have been definitively acquired to improve the balances. It is a maneuver that has taken note of the increase in revenue, largely linked to the positive results of e-invoicing; the same e-invoicing made by previous governments, which you wanted to disassemble and which you have failed to abolish (and today you boast of results that do not belong to you). It is a maneuver that has taken note of the half flop of quota 100, which has a number of questions less than 30 percent than the initial forecasts. It is a maneuver that has taken note of the savings on the income of citizenship. It is a maneuver that has led the government to scrape the bottom of the barrel asking the Cassa depositi e loani to detach an extra dividing for hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. The good news, Mr President, comes to an end here, because the economic situation actually tells us that the problems of a failed economic policy are all open. The Bank of Italy announced a few days ago the new economic bulletin, which contains estimates for 2019 and forecasts for 2020. 2019 will close, according to the Bank of Italy, with a growth of 0.1 percent, and similar numbers will be given, as announced by President Pisauro, by the parliamentary budgetary office in the business note of Friday. The Italian economy is completely firm and the labour market is weak, despite the propaganda and fireworks with which you greeted the latest Istat data. This data told us of an increase of 92,000 units of employment in our country in May 2019 compared to the previous year, but I would like to remind this Assembly that a year earlier the pace of job creation in this country was 350,000 units in May 2018 compared to May 2017 [[Applause from the PD Group):]] from 350,000 to 92,000 with a steady decline in labour market dynamism month after month. In fact, the numbers tell us that in this country today there are 158 industrial crises on the table of the Minister of Economic Development; that Ilva and Alitalia are the tips of an iceberg made of hundreds of crises that have led the recourse to the extraordinary integration fund to grow by 35% in May 2019 compared to the previous year. Of course, Italy suffers from delays that have been dragging for a long time. We have said this for many years that this country has struggled to cope with globalisation, technological revolution, demographic change. The point, however, is that the economic policy of this Government has aggravated the structural problems that weighed on this country, instead of tackling with the necessary determination the problems that Italy had and has in front of it. The maneuver contained in the decree-law under discussion in many ways is the certification of the failure of your economic policy. In fact, the economy, which was to grow by 1.5%, is still and 1019, which was to be a beautiful year, is a year of stagnation. Your budgetary manoeuvre, the maneuver of the deficit for current expenditure, the maneuver of the block of investments, the maneuver of the stop to the fight against the escape, the stop to the revision of the expenditure and the block of the structural reforms has brought Italy to stagnation and has widened the gap that separates Italy from the rest of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is where we have to deal today. BELLANOVA (PD). Government, listen! Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, 2020 is a great unknown to our country. Yesterday's hearings told us clearly and roundly: it takes at least 28 billion to build the next budget maneuver; 28 billion not to make the flat tax, but simply to block the increase in VAT and to finance the unchanged policies. Mr President, in the face of such a large figure, an Everest to scale, we would like to understand who decides in the government on economic policy: does President Conte, Minister Tria or Vice Prime Minister Salvini decide, who improperly summoned to the Ministry of the Interior a party meeting meeting with the social partners, dictating the timing of the maneuver and the contents of the next budget law? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Who decides who does what and what are the priorities of this Government? Salvini, together with former undersecretary Siri, presented a hypothesis of tax reform called flat tax; the vice premier Di Maio today on "Il Sole 24 Ore" speaks of cutting the tax wedge; the minister Tria spoke of reduction to three of the ranks of the Irpef. Mr President, as Comrade Mao said, there is a lot of confusion under the government's sky, but the situation is not favourable for our country with a government of words and irreconcilables like the yellow-green government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The paralysis, in fact, hurts this country; the absence of strategy leads us out of the way. But it is not an inevitable fate because Italy can do it. Despite this government and a dramatically wrong economic policy, the country has the resources to get back on its feet; it has a fabric of companies that compete and export; it has millions of workers that give pride to our country in the world. Of course, we must take a radically different path; we must return to the path of trust, putting an end to the incendiary words, slogans and crap like mini-BOTs and other amenities that we have heard in recent weeks. We need confidence with Europe, with the social partners, with economic operators and with the millions of workers who roll up their sleeves every day for the good of their families and of our country. We need to take the investment path, putting an end to the TAV and the great works and helping companies that want to invest by avoiding cutting the legs of those who want to bet on this country. Mr President, we need a new tax pact. We are radically opposed to flat tax; it is an unfair measure. We have analyzed the few issues of the proposal Salvini-Siri of which we have read in the newspapers. That proposal would give a billion euros to those who declare more than 300,000 euros a year and would not give a euro of advantage to those who earn up to 30,000 euros. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That would be the effect of that proposal. Not only is the proposal not covered, but it is radically unfair and unfair. We are on a different path: pay everyone to pay less. We propose to cut taxes to employees who earn up to 1,500 euros per year net by cutting the Irpef, to cut taxes to companies that invest, hire, focus on environmental and social sustainability. These are the elements of a possible different economic policy. On these issues we will challenge you in autumn because a different path is possible for this country. We have a window of opportunity; let's not waste it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u310	Thank you, Senator Misiani, also for your 60th birthday quote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u311	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u312	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly just to point out that this measure is closely related to the budgetary adjustment that we are going to vote on in the coming weeks and in any case certifies not the failure of the government's economic policy, but the failure of the so-called 'Forza spread', 'Forza infringement procedure', 'Forza corrective maneuver' and 'Forza patrimonial force'. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]] I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but this time too you have been disappointed, because that is the true result. You hoped the opposite, so much so that some of my colleagues, I think of the Forza Italia Group, in a speech given a few sessions ago even invited me to laugh at that moment, because after we had little to laugh at, with the arrival of the infringement procedure. Well, the infringement procedure did not come, simply because the government had clear accounts that it had made. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . The fact that we have less expenditure from citizenship income and 100 is not simply dictated by the fact, as you said, that it was measures that did not "pull", as they say in economic jargon, but it comes from the fact that, as we have already pointed out during the budgetary manoeuvre of last December, the government, in a prudential way, precisely because of its great foresight, has foreseen figures a little above. More is expected... BELLANOVA (PD). The government representative is on the phone!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u313	Senator Bellanova, she's without a microphone and no one can hear her. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I thought of calling Senator Bellanova back, so I'll call you back. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Come on in, Senator Bellanova, nobody can hear you anyway. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u314	I was saying that the lower expenses or the higher revenues, Senators Misiani and Stefano, derive only from a prudential ability of the Government to put extra sums, knowing that so we could have a willingness to use, if someone had presented us the account. So, congratulations to the government that has moved in this direction. As far as the so-called certification of cuts is concerned, I would remind the PD that the problem is not so much about EUR 2 billion in provisions on investment funds. We have all said, in fact, that the problem of the country is not the resources, that there have always been, but it is having the ability to spend them, that is what we have not managed to do thanks to your code of contracts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These are the reasons that have blocked the country and therefore it is not the provision of 2 billion euros on investments that can create a problem; rather, it is necessary to be able to spend those for which it is expected a possible and direct expenditure at this precise moment. This is what we have tried to do and that will certainly bear fruit with the measure unblocks yards. These are the measures we have put in place. Then there are those who say that Italy is bad and that the country is falling apart, constantly supporting apocalyptic scenarios for our country. We have said many times that we are not growing up as we should. The estimated increase of 0.1 or 0.2 per cent of GDP, depending on the more or less optimistic estimates, for the country does not mean that much and it is obvious. But we can also have the ability to objectively assess that there may also be external factors to consider. In 2017, the eurozone's gross domestic product grew by 2.5% and Italy grew by 1.6%. In 2018 gross domestic product grew by 1.8% in the eurozone and for 2019 estimates speak of a 1% growth, so that means that there is something at European level that is not working and that is creating problems for the whole eurozone. That is why we insist very much on the fact that we absolutely need to change the rules, rather than choosing the president here or the vice president there or more than playing the ballet of the armchairs. It takes someone who wants the rules and can really change them, otherwise they will all suffer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are talking about your French friends, since you have also invited Moscovici to a PD party (about international scenarios that should put our country in difficulty): France also has an estimate of GDP growth of 0.2 percent, so it doesn't seem to me that it is going well. Yet France is made all possible and imaginable concessions. That's what we need to talk about. Germany itself has an estimate of GDP growth of 0.5% this year. So all these European countries are not flying to more than 2 points of GDP, while we are the only ones, poor people, taillights. On the contrary, with reference to what the Minister of the Economy himself said, compared to the initial estimates - because in December we were talking about recession, remember? - there was a reversal, there is a positive sign; sure, shy, but always better than nothing. The Italian economy is not going as badly as you say. You can play on whatever you want, but it's not like Istat now, because it's not in your Boeri's hands anymore. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]] Suddenly it gives numbers that aren't good. Was it only good when his president gave the numbers you wanted or when the Parliamentary Budget Office gave the numbers that you needed? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]] No, numbers are not interpreted, they are there, they speak clearly: youth unemployment has been at historic lows since 2011, employment has grown more and this is the first time since 1977. They're not that bad. Then someone can challenge the data by saying that we are now at the INPS and give the data we want. But then you explain to me why the CGIA of Mestre, in a publication of a month ago, which has not been given great resonance on the media - who knows why - has declared that there will be between June, July and August 934,000 more jobs? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]] Did the CGIA of Mestre suddenly become unreliable because it speaks favorably of our economy? Shall we talk about industrial production? It certainly dropped compared to January this year, but it is always positive: more 7 percent compared to last year's values, when (remember) this government had just been installed, so there were still reflections of previous governments. There is 2.9% more in the agriculture sector, 7% more in the construction market, 22% more in the local authorities' investments, which are the ones making gross domestic product, which you, in the 2016 manoeuvre, had blocked with a paragraph of the finance [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , because you were totally enslaved to the wills and famous numbers dictated by Brussels. We have released these resources, which plan, plan will certainly improve the balances of our finance and will produce the necessary investments. But we can also talk about trust. Rightly, some of you have said that everything is based on trust. Of course: do we want to talk about the consumer confidence index, which has risen from 110.6 to 111.8? These are also given Istat. Or do we want to talk about the confidence index of companies, from 98.8 to 100.2? Do we want to talk about the so-called six-monthly BTPs that have been stolen? [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] How many stories have you told us about the spread, the interests and everything else? Today you do not have these arguments anymore, so much so that you can only talk about Russia, which is the only argument that has remained available to you, otherwise you do not know what to tell your voters, you do not know what to propose. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's nice to come here now to say that you don't like this, that you don't like this one, that you should do this and this one; all very interesting proposals, but it comes to ask: why didn't you do them when you were there in the government? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] You must respond to this in front of your citizens. So, you will like it or not like it, unfortunately the ears are low and in the end the infringement procedure is not there. This is not corrective, but merely certifies that we were right in the arm-wrestle with the European Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u315	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u316	Mr President, I would like to make these brief comments by keeping strictly to the subject of Decree-Law No 61, and then we will be able, in the debate on the draft law on the settlement, to make some broader considerations. Technically, it is a small measure, of the size of 1,500 million euros, which allows us to present ourselves with a significant change in the structural balance (plus 0.2 percent of GDP), which has a very positive meaning in the relationship with the foreign world, as well as as the internal passage of our accounting. Let us remember that this decree-law is intended to respond to the request for correction made by the European Union to our Government, in order to avoid the infringement of the debt. The European Union has, moreover, communicated the conditions for continuous monitoring on this issue. This decree-law is a somewhat special measure, a "tampon" measure; in fact it freezes the use of part of the appropriations provided for in the State budget, those which do not have an immediate need for expenditure, i.e. they concern expenditure from October onwards, and then arrive, with the autumn measures, at accounting arrangements. That is why the measure has a high technical value; it has a budget of almost 1 400 million on the Fund mission to be allocated, which is also the mission which contains the funds for drawing the appropriations sent in peremption, but which in any case are valid as debt and as such must be honoured. In the autumn, as a result of the monitoring, compensation and full rebalancing will take place. Let me also mention this point: following yesterday's hearing, it has emerged that savings - as has already been said in various interventions - or rather the least expenditure on debt (we use the correct term), therefore the least debt, compared to the two basic measures of the majority, the income of citizenship and quota 100, could close to 1,900 million euros, almost 2 billion. This means that the correction measure - I look at the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs - could also go over a billion and a half. So the correction of the state budget, i.e. the deficit in our budget or deficit, could have been even higher. Personally, even though it is in opposition (but I have a governmental vocation, because I have always found myself better in governing than in opposition), I believe that the government has done well to maintain it at 1.5 billion and not to go any further, because in its relationship with the European Union we must maintain a contractual position. And, given that the mechanisms of the strange and perverse Stability Pact are calculated from the previous year, if I exaggerate to being good in this exercise, I run the risk of having to be - indeed, I have to be - too good in the following exercise. That is why I share the fact that we have opted for EUR 1.5 billion instead of EUR 1.9 billion; then we can divide at the limit on the difference in debt, on the reasons for this difference and on the remodulation of appropriations (of course already in the budgetary framework) and the opposition can say that I am opposed to the way in which resources are placed and spent. I believe, however, that some corrections could already be made to this decree-law; the Group to which I belong has not tabled any amendments because we believe that we are Italians first of all and we must understand what the objective of the measure is. Paragraph 4 repeals the possibility that unspent waste - we use this term - can go to employment services to create conditions for active labour policies, which represent the great issue of this country. We can solve this by taking a right or left view, but at the moment the big question is about active labour policies: in fact, if we read the newspapers we see that the jobs offered continue to be many, but we are not able to cover all types, we are not able to make meet the demand with the supply. This is the great difficulty that we also have at the level of the country, beyond the count between 100,000, 900,000 and 200,000 that is reported every now and then. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We can certainly criticize the fact that the measure in question comes after seven months during which the situation of growth of the deficit or in any case of overcoming the debt criterion has led to a state of uncertainty and conflict with the European Union which, wrongly or rightly (some people claim to be right, as we have heard before, while the opposite party claims that the Italian Government was wrong with its behaviour), has led citizens and markets to be uncertain about the fate of this country and has led us to have a very expensive spread, for citizens perhaps more than for the Italian State. We are concerned about the state budget, but we must also be concerned about the citizens. Even the State, compared to interest rates, gains with the reduction of spread. In these months there has been a disorientation to be attributed to the government's inability to have correct estimates. Last night we audited the Parliamentary Budget Office, which in a very flat way informed us of its difficulty in having the data; so if the Parliamentary Budget Office does not have it, neither does the Government, and therefore it is a problem with the functioning of the system to make estimates. Moreover, the certainty of estimates is crucial because it gives credibility and creates the conditions for finding the right way. We believe that the decree-law in question may also represent the right path, but we wonder what will happen in 2020; perhaps the path is the right one, but what message does it convey? First of all, it is appropriate to look after the substance. I believe that the agreement with the European Union on a path of flexibility must be consolidated, but for this to happen we must make it sustainable. Therefore, we must say right now and as quickly as possible what we want to do with VAT, of the 23 billion VAT safeguard clause, and what we do with tax reform. Those who speak to you are not among those who say absolutely no to the increase in VAT; I say no to the increase in VAT and non-tax reform or to a reform that costs more because at this point we continue to add. I would like to remind you that this year's tax payers have, unfortunately, been charged extra and not less. There is therefore a need for a great reform, a balance out of emergencies; that is, we must all give this country (the government and the majority first and the opposition must contribute) a long-term strategy that, therefore, with a review of public spending allows us to restart the country. We must say enough about spot measures such as this - and I conclude, Mr President - which have the nature of a safeguard clause, so as to recover three months. We must read the reality, because this is the interest of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u317	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u318	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are dealing with the conversion into law of the decree-law on the adjustment of public finance balances. As is well known, on 5 June last, the European Commission published a report on Italy's compliance with the debt criterion for 2018. As is also well known, the Government immediately activated itself to demonstrate, given the hand, that the threatened infringement procedure was not supported by any factual element and, in a specific way, was not supported by economic data and public finance. Similarly, the President of the Republic, who said he was surprised at the start of the European Commission's work. The government has been able to demonstrate easily that the public accounts are in full health and that there can be an increase in revenues of 3.5 billion, of which 2.9 billion for higher tax revenues and 0.6 billion for more contributory revenue. Then there are other revenues of 2.7 billion, due to higher dividends from the Bank of Italy and Cassa depositi e loani and, moreover, there are lower expenses of one billion and higher expenses of 1.1 billion (to be precise 1,154 billion). Finally - and this is the theme we are dealing with today - there is expected to be a saving of 1.5 billion of resources for the year 2019 for citizens' income and 100 billion. The total of these amounts is approximately 7.6 billion, which will be used to reduce the net debt of public debt. The consequence is that the deficit-GDP ratio for 2019 will be 2.04, i.e. exactly what we had indicated and planned last December in the budget law, among the laughter of some, many of whom, among other things, are present in this House, who call themselves "good": good economists, good journalists, good parliamentarians, good former ministers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The facts, the numbers, the public finance balances are right, therefore, to the government action. However, a small mention deserves the least expenditure we are talking about, calculated for the income of citizenship and quota 100. As regards the income of citizenship - said yesterday at the hearing of the President of the Tridico INPS - it happened that a number of citizens who, from the statistical point of view and their official economic and patrimonial situation were entitled to access this measure, did not actually request it. Most likely a perhaps even large part of those who have not requested access to the benefit is tax evaders or tax evaders, who considered it appropriate not to apply for citizenship income, finding it dangerous to have to submit to the relevant controls, with all that follows in terms of criminal sanctions in case of unfaithful declarations. It appears, therefore, that, from this point of view too, the law establishing the income of citizenship and of quota 100 and its mechanisms of sanctioning have proved effective. Having said that, I would like to stress that the adjustment of the public accounts we are dealing with is not a corrective manoeuvre from the First Republic, as my colleagues said before me: in fact, no new taxes or increased existing taxes have been imposed and no net cuts of any kind have been made, less than ever to social expenditure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The effect of this adjustment is that the structural budget balance improves by 0.2% and the resulting structural budgetary adjustment improves by 0.3%. As is well known, however, as Movimento 5 Stars we do not share some of the rules contained in the European treaties, we consider them abstruse and difficult to resolve and therefore we will do everything, always as a 5 Star Movement, to change them. But as long as they are in force, as at this moment, we, as a country, will respect them because we are loyal to the rules, unlike other European countries that constantly violate some of them and, despite this, feel entitled to give us the lesson. I am referring, for example, to France with regard to the deficit-to-GDP ratio, which is constantly in breach, or to Germany with regard to trade surplus. By now a year of government has passed and despite the prophets of misfortune, which we have heard today, continue to announce a country on their knees, on the limit of default, we can instead record some successes. I'm gonna go list them. Just today, the spread, which had been referred to as a spectrum, is 188 basis points, however without the full aid of the quantitative easing by the European Central Bank, which until recently brought EUR 80 billion into the financial system every month. The confidence of the markets in Italy is so high that it was possible to sell public debt securities at downhill rates and with a very long duration, even equal to fifty years (which was considered utopian until a few months ago). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Again, the public debt, which has always increased in recent years, in May last - heard, heard - has decreased by 8.7 billion euros. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] The average rate of loans granted to households is 1.78 per cent, contrary to what - I repeat - many people in this House expected. The employment rate is 59 per cent, the highest since 1977. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The unemployment rate, on the other hand, is 9.9%, the lowest since 2012. Thanks to the so-called Dignity Decree we have recorded an increase of 328,000 contracts without a time limit, which is incredible and thanks to which we achieve exactly the result that we wanted with the approval of the provision. Industrial production in May increased by 0.9% and most of the large companies listed on the Milan Stock Exchange will close the first half of 2019 in profit. The investments of the municipalities, for the first time since the explosion of the crisis, increased by 17% in the first half of 2019, thanks to the unblocking of the management surpluses and to the 400 million allocated in maneuver for the safety of the territory, to which, dear colleagues of the PD, will be added another 500 million euros of the decree increase. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] These are some positive data that distinguish the current moment of the country and are numbers, not opinions or propaganda. Of course, none of us think or say that everything is perfect or that restaurants are full, as a former President of the Council said while GDP fell by 5%. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, after an uninterrupted year of positive things done for the country and during which we dealt with both the social rights of citizens, and the public accounts, after these unconquerable facts, who continues to say that the country is on its knees knowing to lie. [[Comments from the PD Group]] And often these liars are exactly the creators of the social disaster that we faced a year ago, when we assumed the responsibility of government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today these same liars want to convince us that they have all the recipes to save Italy and the whole world. Too bad these same recipes did not apply when they - the depositaries of truth - were in the government of the country and territories. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, I should like to conclude. We do not expect them to tell us that we are good or that we keep government commitments one after the other. No, because in the general narrative we are incapable by definition, or at most lucky, as are usually beginners. Well, our detractors think what they want. We're in a free country, so they can say and think what they want. Instead, we will continue to use all our energies with the sole objective of ensuring that Italians have a better life and a better future. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We will continue to take special care of those who have suffered in recent years, the craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises and those who work and work every day. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Our gratification comes not from the strong powers, but from the citizens who, meeting us on the street, embrace us and thank us for having received dignity and hope thanks to our measures. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u319	The general debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh dotted her with small speeches, it seemed right to me to speak with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u320	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what has already been said in the speeches of my colleagues in the opposition has been addressed in the Commission during the debate on the measure. It is not a corrective manoeuvre - I repeat - we are not increasing taxes, nor has special expenditure been cut, rather it is the adjustment of public finance balances, taking advantage of more revenue and less expenditure than expected and taking note of it. The measure under consideration is the final act of the brilliant intercourse between the President of the Count Council and the Commission of the European Union in order to avoid the opening of the infringement procedure, the seal to the successful outcome of the negotiation, as well as the confirmation of the soundness of our public accounts and the goodness and effectiveness of the policies adopted by the Government, which combine the stability of the financial framework with the growth and social development. For the first time since 2012, the year of the cold austerity inaugurated by the Government of technicians (so-called professors), unemployment has fallen below the psychological threshold of 10 percent (we are at 9.9%) and for the first time since 1977, i.e. since the historical series existed, the employment rate has never been so high, reaching 59 percent. In a European context characterized by strong concerns for contained economic growth, Italy, with the measures adopted by the decree-law that we are about to convert, succeeds in confirming its expansionary policies contained in the 2018 budget law, without making reductions to the planned expenditure, thus avoiding an excessive deficit procedure. The possible opening of the infringement procedure would have forced us to restrictive measures of budgetary policies, screwing us into a vice harmful to the entire country system. The credibility of the Government and the public finance framework is evidenced by the re-establishment of market confidence and the simultaneous decline of the spread, which is a sine qua non for stimulating business investment and access to household credit. Italy is there, it pursues its expansive policies for the revival of economic growth and is willing to take back its space. I want to reiterate that we are not faced with a corrective maneuver as instrumentally insinuated. The intervention, to be read in conjunction with the draft budgeting law, which is also being discussed in this area of Parliament, does not introduce new taxes - I repeat - nor new cuts in expenditure. Perhaps it should be reiterated that the 7.6 billion made available to public finance balances derive from more resources that the Government has recovered in terms of reassignment of expenditure savings, not from new taxes. It's a colossal difference that everyone can easily understand. Among other things, thanks to the increase in revenue, the Government has managed to recover important resources for sectors such as the Cohesion Fund and local public transport, all avoiding the risk of an infringement procedure that the same positions saw as smoking in the eyes. We have managed to do all this by avoiding the European grip and by not at all affecting our economic policies and social expenditure. Italy is approaching this historic hairpin bend with performances and economic fundamentals at last in significant improvement. In addition to the positive employment data already mentioned, the regrowth of investment by local authorities is also added. The General Accounting Office of the State has certified that in the first half of 2019 the capital expenditure of the Municipalities saw an increase of 17 percent compared to the first half of the previous year. The merit, as the mayors themselves testify, must be attributed to the release of the leftovers of management of the Municipalities that we have decided just arrived to the Government and made structural in maneuver and to the 400 million allocated in maneuver to feed works contracts and put in security of the territory. More, because according to the data of the General Accounting of the State as much as 95% of this figure has already been contracted in a few months. An article on "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore), a newspaper not quite close to the 5 Star Movimento, reported that being able to contract in less than five months virtually all the planned works is an unprecedented and exceptional fact, especially considering that so far, as reported by various reports of the Presidency of the Council and of ANAS, it takes an average of two to eight years to move from financing to the yard. And soon another 500 million will be added, which we have allocated with the decree-growth law, to allow the municipalities to put in place works of energy efficiency and sustainable development. The spread also dropped to around 185-190 points, with the yield of ten-year bonds around 1.6-1.7 percent, also below the psychological threshold of 2 percent. We are acting to boost growth, investment and social confidence; we are proud of the results. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u321	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the first standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2 and 1.0.3, which have already been declared inadmissible during the examination in relation to the subject matter of the decree-law, cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u322	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, with the exception of 1.7, which I call on the authors to turn into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u323	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u324	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1.7, the rapporteur called for it to be turned into an agenda. I would ask the proposers if they accept this request. Mr Misiani (PD). Yes, Mr President, and we insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u325	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u327	MANCA (PD). Mr President, Amendment 1.7, of which we accepted the request for a change to the agenda, was of particular importance to us because it was based on principles of transparency, of loyal cooperation between the Government and Parliament. The approval of the same was therefore very important precisely in order to finalize procedures adapted to a correct relationship between the initiatives of the Government and the Parliament and the relative Council Commissions. We would have liked this amendment to be approved. Of course, we have accepted the possibility of its transformation into an agenda, but we believe that it is very important - precisely in order to recall a principle of transparency and loyal cooperation - to include in the order of business the forecast that has been highlighted by us in this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u328	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.7 tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). Floridia (M5S). Mr President, what is the opinion? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The opinion has already been clearly expressed on all the amendments to Article 1, but if you will, I repeat. I therefore cancel the vote and repeat that the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of amendment 1.7, which has been turned into an agenda. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). LUPE (M5S). Mr President, what are we voting on? [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] Colleagues, I really don't understand what the problem is. In any case, I also cancel this vote and repeat it. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.10. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2 and 1.0.3 are unacceptable. As with agreements between the Presidents of the parliamentary groups, I refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u329	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-134.ana.u330	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, July 18, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.09 a.m.
