ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 1 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u4	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events of the "Il Forteto" community, whose list of members has been published in an annex to the Report of the session of Thursday, 1 August 2019, is convened for Wednesday, 4 September next, at 14, at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, to proceed to its constitution. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system, whose list of members has been published in an annex to the Report of the sitting of Thursday, August 1, 2019, is convened for Wednesday, September 4, next, at 15, at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, to proceed to its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1437 already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u6	Mr President, the question we have put - as you will have seen - we have done so using the new instrument made available under Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure puts a very serious issue to the attention of this House, concerning the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution for the issuing of decree-laws. In fact, Mr President, someone has to explain to us what are the extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency for which we have reached the security-a decree, since in the work in the Commission we have not managed to have elements that somehow clarified it once and for all. Of the two: or the first security decree was a total failure, so it became necessary to arrive at a security decree- bis, or we did not notice it, but obviously the barchini that arrives continuously - without the honor of the cameras, because the Minister of the Interior does not deal with it - there are so many that we needed to intervene, but I do not think that is the case, or the data that the Minister of the Interior reported in this House, when even in the context of question time he came here to boast that the landings would be drastically reduced, are not true. Otherwise, in fact, we cannot really understand why we needed to issue a new decree and what are the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. Certainly the prerequisites of necessity and urgency are not there for Articles 1 and 2 of the decree: the data are very clear and, beyond the propaganda, the fact remains that there were no and there are absolutely no conditions required for the adoption of the measure. As for the criterion of homogeneity, it is a decree in which, once again, the question of food vouchers has been included, so it is not possible to understand how the criterion of homogeneity has been evaluated. However, we come to the real crux, because, Mr President, there is not only the question of the use of a decree-law again, a legal instrument of urgency, for a purely propaganda purpose: there is more. With this decree-law, in particular with Article 1, we go to heal a situation of de facto illegality. In fact, coordination is given to the Minister of the Interior, which he already had because he had taken it himself by making an abuse of acts of office, in my opinion, of which there would be all the extremes. He has in fact used widely a kind of coordinating power that has been given and in the decree there is a sort of taking action and healing of this coordinating power. The attribution of coordinating power to the Minister of the Interior as an authority which must guarantee order and public security is in complete and clear contrast - for us this is an absolute element of constitutional lawlessness - with Article 95 of the Constitution, which is very clear. In Article 1 of the decree-law, the President of the Council is mentioned only to say that the Minister of the Interior establishes everything, in agreement with the Minister of Defence and with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, informing the President of the Council: I remind everyone that there is Article 95 of our Constitution, which rightly puts the President of the Council in charge of the government's activity. It had to be exactly the opposite: Article 1 had to re-establish the role of the President-in-Office of the Council. But since we have a shadow President of the Council, the decree-law goes to sanction a total and absolute constitutional lawlessness. Not to mention another element: in Articles 1 and 2 we go much further and it is established that it is the power of the Minister of the Interior to issue the ban of disembarkation to stop all ships and landings for reasons of order and public safety. But who establishes that in those boats, which have welcomed and saved people, shipwrecks and refugees, there are extremes to set up a danger for our country? What is the danger and at the head of who is the faculty to establish that there is a danger to our country? Among other things, we are not even talking about national security, but about order and public security, always everything at the head of the Minister of the Interior. Through Article 2, the war, which is now unreasonable and inhuman, continues against NGOs and all those, as can happen to fishing vessels, who collect people in danger of life and who obey the first law of the sea, which is to save lives and help all those in distress in the sea, establishing that it is a serious crime. Fines are expected, which have been increased to a great extent in the transition to the House and which conflict heavily with the principle of reasonableness enshrined, too, in our Constitution. In fact, Article 2 of the decree-law states that it is a very serious crime to save lives. This conflicts not only with a moral and ethical obligation that belongs from antiquity to the human species (I remind everyone of the first book of the "Eneid") but also, heavily, with the principles of reasonableness enshrined in the constitutional dictation. A real new crime is configured that conflicts with another obligation, whose non-compliance is punished by our code, that is the omission of relief: on the one hand, it is punished, the omission of relief, while on the other it is established that it is a crime to help. We then arrive, Mr President, at the other part of the measure, the one made up of Articles 6, 7, 15 and 16, which are devoted to so-called public order. Even in this case it is clear what you want to do: you intervene heavily with a decree-law without bearing in mind what is established as a reserve of the code. We are speaking through the instrument of urgent decision-making and you, Mr President, know better than I do (because you are a jurist and you have been in the Supreme Council of the judiciary) how delicate it is to intervene with a decree-law in criminal matters and criminal proceedings. On the other hand, this is done, and for one reason only: because it is not only stated that it is a crime to save lives, but it must also be established that Article 21 of our Constitution does not exist and that the free manifestation of thought and public manifestations must be considered with prejudice. We are not in Russia, we are in our country, our Constitution still exists and we must avoid, things that the decree-law in question does once again, to criminalize all forms of dissent that are manifested in public demonstrations. That is why, in accordance with Rule 78 of our Rules of Procedure, we ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the draft law. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Nencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u7	I call Senator Parrini to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that the articles of the measure under discussion should be examined because we do not see anything necessary and urgent in the decree-law and the bill of conversion proposed to Parliament's attention. We regard this as a malicious measure, which leads us on a wrong path and serves only to satisfy the propaganda anxiety of the Minister of the Interior, nor is it useful to solve any concrete problem with regard to the governance of migration flows. We think that the most necessary thing, the really urgent thing that is before us today, both the admission and the first security decree, that of this is the parent, has completely failed, has not kept any of the commitments that characterized him, has turned out to be a propaganda bubble that, months after the parliamentary process that saw us strongly engaged in the Senate of the Republic, has shown all its limits, all its ineffectiveness, all its inability to deal with the duty to remain human when we talk about these arguments and when we act on these fronts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We know that the measure under consideration, pompely renamed security- bis, erases humanity and does not guarantee security. It is an attempt of the Government, of the majority, in particular of the Minister of the Interior, not to deal with the failures of its policies, as it should do instead. There is a greater failure than all the others, which we do not tire of remembering and which I would also like to mention today. We all remember well what happened in the 2018 election campaign, the one that inaugurated this legislature. Let us remember the roboating and electorally winning promise that the Minister of the Interior made on the return: he promised that he would repatriate 600,000 people in a year. We know that 600,000 people in one year mean an average of 1,600 returnees a day. Well, more than a year has passed since the elections, but we know that returns on average per day have been made of less than 15, instead of 1,600: so a penny of what has been promised has been maintained. This is the thing that should be discussed; this is the failure of the Minister of the Interior, who should be the subject of comment every day, because between 1,600 and 15 there is a huge difference. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This means that public opinion has been mocked and that there is only one interest, namely to maintain high communicative tension; to maintain high in our society the level of hatred, to maintain high the level of fear for consent purposes, without worrying about what this continuous preaching of aggressive ideas, this continuous display of arrogance towards the weakest can provoke, even on the level of security of our society. We know, in fact, a year after the establishment of this Government, that we are no longer sure, but surely our community is more afraid, more imbued with hatred and resentment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And this cannot correspond to a collective interest. We must certainly note, in the discussion of the question referred to us, the aspects that Mrs De Petris has also highlighted: the complete disregard with which things are established by law in clear contrast to international conventions and international treaties that we cannot ignore. Here they break apart with great tranquility, pretending instead of respecting and honoring them, fundamental documents such as the Geneva Convention, the Montego Bay Convention on the Law of the Sea, the European Convention on Human Rights. Above all, in this pervicacious project of criminalization of NGOs to throw smoke in the eyes of public opinion, because one always needs to build an enemy and a scapegoat, one goes against a series of articles of our Constitution, whose violation is not a possibility that this Government has, because until proven otherwise we are in a constitutional, liberal and parliamentary democracy, where those who win the elections acquire the right to govern, but maintain the duty to respect the Constitution of the State. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So what, because of this provision, is Article 10, Article 95, Article 117 of the Constitution? It has been said before: it is pretended that the President of the Council of Ministers in the Italian legal system is not first among equals, he does not have the duty and the right to coordinate government policy, he is not in a position of supremacy over his ministers. Instead, one tries to institutionalize, writing it in a law, that the President of the Council of Ministers in Italy is the Deputy of his Vice-Presidents, indeed he is the Vice-President of one of his Vice-Presidents. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because the other doesn't matter anything and only puts the bag to what counts and shows the muscles. All this is very serious: it is serious not to take into account what Article 10 of our Constitution says about the fact that our laws must take into account the international obligations of the country and the international commitments that our country has contracted. But these are not the only failures that lead us to have such an opposite view of this measure so much as to ask Parliament to vote so that we do not proceed to the examination of the articles. There are others that I have an obligation to highlight. The first is as follows: we, in order to really change things for the better in the governance of migratory flows in our country, should have a strategy not only of propaganda, but of realistic intervention in this area; we should move to improve the European policies that we consider lacking in this area. But we know that there is only one way to improve European policies: to have the capacity to build alliances within the European Union; to seek common ground with other countries that have similar interests to ours as regards the governance of migration flows. We have to ask ourselves: has something like this happened in Italy in the last year? No. We have not built any useful alliance for better governance of migratory flows. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The only alliances we have made are with countries that have opposite interests on immigration to those of Italy and demonstrate it every day. We find ourselves in a singular - and never seen before - condition of international irrelevance; we are completely marginalized from fundamental decisions and the Minister of the Interior, Mr. One percent - because he is the gentleman who keeps one percent of the promises he makes in the electoral campaign - he does not even present himself at international summits, perhaps because he is ashamed to see and touch with hand how his way of doing has made Italy unable to influence the determinations that are taking place at international level. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We cannot accept that a story is told, so it is possible to be disinterested by those who are losing their lives and those who risk losing their lives at sea; to be disinterested by the obligation to help the shipwrecked. We cannot accept a measure which goes in the wrong direction and which, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, really deserves a very negative judgment. A judgment made even more negative by what the same measure does not do: it does nothing to allocate an adequate amount of resources to promote assisted voluntary returns, which would instead be a tool to be used with great strength and conviction. Here too, in order to make better use of and strengthen that instrument, we should have a foreign policy, an idea of international relations, an idea of how we influence the policy of relations between States. This idea is not there, nor is it intended to be built, because we are satisfied with the immediate electoral performance of propaganda shootings. But, with propaganda shots, we'll see all the problems getting worse. Illegal immigrants in Italy today are more than when this Government took office, thanks to the first security decree-law I mentioned at the beginning. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I repeat, it has failed completely on the return front and we have more irregular immigrants than before. Above all - and I want to say this very forcefully because this has been said in all the amendments tabled by the opposition political forces - we must also record a policy of mere chatter that is not able to maintain any commitment [[Applause from the PD Group]] : Nothing to strengthen the staff, nothing to improve the turnover, no resources for the contract. Again, a complete betrayal of the promises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the propaganda of the Minister of the Interior we risk a very heavy result: we risk paying a heavy price for this tendency to speak a lot, to do nothing, to excite resentment and anger in our society without providing any concrete solution. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u9	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u12	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I ask you right now to leave the written text of my speech to the record if you do not have time to read it and comment on it all. The text approved by the House consists of 18 articles: the first two speak of rescue at sea, the third amends Article 51 of the Criminal Code; Article 4 provides for appropriations for police activities and activities related to illegal immigration. There is also talk of demonstrations in public places, of the staff for justice, of the Daspus for demonstrations, of the contrast to the bagaraggio, of the postponement of the terms for the implementation of the code of privacy in the matter of data processing for police purposes and so on. In short, as you can see, it is really a mixed set of rules, and this, in itself, should make it clear that this is a measure which, in this respect, violates the dictates of Article 77 of the Constitution. The decree-safety law- bis is therefore an inconsistent set of rules which, moreover - if I have the time, we will see it - are also in contradiction between them. This is a measure, in fact, Mr President, which, particularly in the field of immigration, is incapable of achieving any other practical effect than that of criminalising the necessary and due conduct held by the commanders of the ships. The commanders of the ships, in fact, will find themselves at sea in front of a dilemma seemingly inextricable from their perspective, because we will have - they will have - the obligation to save the lives of the people, unless they do not incur the crime of omission of relief according to the penal code. At the same time, however, they will also have to deal, in almost deterrent function, with the enormous sanction, nominally administrative, that will certainly frenet many of them. Therefore, already here we can understand what the real intent of this measure is, that it is not to put order or to ensure that there is a rule. The real intent of the measure is to create a real deterrent, which is death. I repeat: death as a real deterrent. The only effective deterrent that this decree puts in relation to landings is the death of people. Hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of people have already died so far. By criminalising the conduct of those who are obliged to save them, the only concrete effect is to create a deterrent. Subsequently, in the courts it will be verified that this deterrent does not apply and that the antinomy between the norm of the provision and the norms deriving from the international conventions is only apparent. This will happen later and - meanwhile - hundreds more and hundreds of children will be dead, in your carelessness and ignavia. The decree-law under consideration is unconstitutional for dozens of reasons. There is no presupposition of necessity and urgency. This is what the Minister for the Interior himself says when he says and boasts that the landings have decreased: how does he at that time also demand the necessity and urgency of the measure? [[Brusio]] I see that this House is very distracted and I am sorry because this issue is important. [[Recalls of the President]] The reasons for extraordinary necessity and urgency, in fact, as provided for in Article 15 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, must be verified in fact. The order and public security, so generically mentioned in the decree-law, do not take into account any need for necessity and urgency. Article 15 of Law No 400 is an ordinary rule, but the Constitutional Court has often highlighted its importance in the union on the basis of facts, which are those of the necessity and urgency provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution. The existence - the Constitutional Court has asserted - must be verified regarding the unitary ratio of the decree-law. We have seen that the decree under consideration deals with everything and does not have a unitary ratio. However, the de facto data provided by the Minister of the Interior highlights the decline in irregular landings, asylum applications and also attendance at immigration centres. According to these data, so-called predatory crimes would also be in decline. In this context, therefore, there is no evidence of a public security deficit, which, on the other hand, is mentioned because of the necessity and urgency to derogate from the ordinary competence of Parliament to legislate. The parliamentary function is already very limited. This measure, which is now clearly to be voted on in this House with confidence, results in an intolerable squeeze of the parliamentary function, as was the case in December for the budget law. In this respect too, the constitutional rule is being violated, because there is no reason why Parliament should not put its hand, even if only with amendments, on this measure. If the basis of legitimacy that allows the Government to exercise the legislative function without the delegation of the Parliament lies in the need to deal with exceptional situations as a matter of urgency, a decree-law is not acceptable which, like the one under consideration, contains measures whose application is conditional on the adoption, expressly provided for, of other and subsequent measures. How is it possible - I ask you - that an urgent measure which, for its implementation, requires the adoption of other and subsequent measures is required? Where's the urgency? [[Brusio]] I see you're very distracted, but let's forget it. NUGNES (Mixed). President, a little silence in this House! BELLANOVA (PD). President, there's a senator talking! DE FALCO (Mixed). It doesn't matter. It has already been mentioned that there is a set of subjects that are affected by this decree-law: the Minister of the Interior who proposes, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Defence who countersign, \ inform - says the text of the provision - the President of the Council Â Â. As Mr Parrini and President De Petris said earlier, the President of the Council is informed: the President of the Council here becomes an ammennicle, in violation of Article 95 of the Constitution. They tell him out of knowledge, so he can answer the papers. Are you kidding me? Beyond the formal considerations, Undersecretary Molteni, there is a very serious criminalisation of duty, which is intolerable and ineminable in a rule of law. In fact, this decree-law will eventually produce the only effect of clogging the classrooms of justice: this is the fact. It will be completely and continuously disenforced by all judges. It will have to be unenforced, because it runs counter to all conventional standards (Solas, Montego Bay, SAR). I don't have time to explain it better, but be careful that it's completely useless. The only effect he can get is to put people at sea to death, in the meantime that the courts will have constantly disenforced him. I will conclude, Mr President, in this climate, because I would like to make a final appeal in particular to colleagues who have been closest to me this year and a half and who are the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, but also to all the others. It is clear that the preliminary rulings put forward are all well-founded and I therefore ask that the draft law in question be not examined; but if the preliminary rulings were rejected, we would always have the opportunity to avoid this nefariousness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. DE FALCO (Mixed). I appeal to the conscience of my fellow Members to vote with the courage they have not had so far, aware that it is not a criminal rule such as this that restrains landings, but it is death: that is the only real reason. It is the death of hundreds and hundreds of people who are provoking with these decrees, including children like mine and yours, as well as fathers and mothers. Then I ask my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars to vote this time, at least once, according to conscience and not according to the order of stables, because this time you can do so. There's nothing to expect anymore. You have and you must have your back straight. You have to vote according to conscience and you all know what this stuff is here: this is a criminal and deadly norm. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u15	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I will be clear from the outset: we, the Brothers of Italy, are opposed to the question of a preliminary ruling, as we were to those proposals on the first security decree. We want, indeed, this decree-law to be discussed. On the contrary, we would have liked to have discussed it in more depth, entering into the substance of the issues; we would have liked to have had time to put our amendments to the Commission; we would have liked to make our contribution to a better definition of this measure, since the Government, even on a fundamental issue such as this, still does not take a firm position. Probably, if even on this subject there had not been a downward auction between the League and Movimento 5 Stars and if the amendments proposed by Brothers of Italy during the discussion on the first decree-law had been accepted by the majority, this second passage could have been avoided. On the other hand, we are again here to deal with shortcomings and to clarify positions not defined in the first text on safety, but also this time not exhaustively. It is symptomatic that the measure is presented in this House without a rapporteur. Yes, because, despite some improvements, there are still many gaps, one on all the issues of immigration. There is, in fact, no concrete action on the establishment of surveillance centres and on the timing of detention of illegal immigrants for the necessary investigations. Yet the Council of Europe of a year ago established the principle that Member States should set up supervised centres in which illegal immigrants entering our territory should be held for up to 18 months. In these eighteen months, the host State must assess the status of illegal migrants and act accordingly. This is because, in all European countries, starting precisely from Germany and France, which often allow themselves to morale us, the principle is valid that you are clandestine until proven otherwise, while in Italy the concept is that you are refugee until proven otherwise. We believe that the time has come to reverse this political and legal approach, which has so far influenced reception policies in our nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We would like to remind all those who constantly repeat 'We're asking for it from Europe, today we would like to remind ourselves that the monitoring centres are asking for it from Europe too. For this reason we would have liked to find its disposition within this second decree-law, because our main objective is that the migration phenomenon begins to be finally managed with clear rules, activating a fair process of reception for the people who present our borders in a legal way and to repatriate those who are not entitled to it. It seems clear to us that we can no longer welcome everyone to the hotel at the expense of Italian citizens, as in the past. It's one thing to save shipwrecks; it's another thing to endorse a bad system, which is instrumentally creating shipwrecks. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] There is only one clear solution to the problem, often proposed by Brothers of Italy: naval blockade; opening of identification centres; expulsion for those who do not have the requirements; reopening of migratory flows, giving priority to citizens of Italian origin (I think of the many Venezuelan compatriots, completely abandoned by this Government to their destiny). It is precisely on this point in the Commission, where we have stressed the need for a new approach, which also applies throughout Europe, that is to say, illegal until proven otherwise, that we have been accused of wanting to demolish the rule of law, and that we are returning it directly to the sender. When it comes to the rule of law, it is not thought that it destroys those who always act against the national interest. The rule of law demolishes those who board NGOs' ships and with them violates national laws and spurs our patrol boats. The rule of law demolishes him who prefers to visit the murderers of a servant of his homeland and not his widow. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The rule of law demolishes those who choose not to go to the funeral of young victims of violence and to support social centers. The rule of law destroys him who in recent years has taken authority from the police forces, decriminalized the offence of offense to the public officer, or prevented him from doing their job by introducing the crime of torture. I would ask some colleagues who often rinse their mouths with rights to go to prisons, but not to be honest about how prisoners are treated, but to see the conditions in which our prison police are forced to work. You also protect the rights of these workers, often forced to operate at the limit of personal safety, with few means and scarce equipment. Going to give solidity to those who represent the State in structures that are often dilapidated: this is what we must do. There cannot be a rule of law in which duties are deliberately forgotten, because first the duty comes and then the law, and there can be no right in a society without rules and without who can guarantee its respect, because there is no right without legality and duties. We will never give up defending our borders, because it is our duty to respect the right of all Italians to have a sovereign state and I am referring not only to the natural and political borders but also to the cultural and social ones, such as the right to protect our culture and our social state from those who want to impose something else, from those who want to introduce cheap labour and from those who want to lead us to go against our own national interests. For all these reasons, we would have liked a greater willingness on the part of the majority to discuss this issue, but instead because of lack of sensitivity, or perhaps a willingness to listen to our proposals and accept our amendments, we will have to wait for further security decrees. I conclude, President, by declaring Brothers of Italy's vote against these prejudices, but by appealing to colleagues and friends of the League. This Government is certainly good for surveys, it is good for Brothers of Italy, but it hurts the nation. That is why we believe it is desirable to unplug the plug as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u18	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we are speaking in the matter of a preliminary ruling on necessity, urgency and emergency. It has already been said very well because, according to the legislative rigour, the characteristics of necessity and urgency do not apply. The same government reminds us one day yes and the other also that the landings have decreased (the Minister of the Interior says on its own merits), but we stand to the objective fact. There is another objective data, the dead have increased: one for every eight saved migrants. It's an objective fact. However, as we are discussing political choices and political priorities here, the issue of necessity and urgency brings us back to priorities. It is clear that the priority is not numbers. If we talk about immigration, the priority is the governance of the phenomenon in Europe, with Europe and not isolating itself from Europe. I would like to remain on the agenda: the father of this measure, the Interior Minister Salvini, did not warn with the same urgency and urgency the need to respond to Parliament - respecting this fundamental place of democracy where the people, who are often evoked, elected their representatives - on the subject of security and our international location, of the so-called Russiagate. We are still waiting with the motion of no confidence that we have tabled, certain that without it the Minister would not report. We are hanging from the cheating of the Government of the barter, which is an archaic form of contract, even more crude, and from a Government, which is politically finished, because it is not giving answers to the emergencies of the country and continues to produce propaganda measures. However, we remain on the subject of the governance of immigration. If there is an emergency, or at least an urgency, to govern these phenomena, why is the League, when we vote in Europe to change the Treaty of Dublin, against, like its Visegrad allies? Why, when there are summits in Europe on the choices of immigration policy, Minister Salvini is not there, but there is the photograph of an empty chair and, together with the photograph of the empty chair, there is the picture of Minister Salvini on a turret with barbed wire, which searches the horizon, along with Orban? [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the picture of the Italian Government, of those who represent us in Europe. Where are the assisted returns? Where are the policies for the governance of flows? It would be too easy to evoke, as we certainly insist on doing, the international rules, which are systematically violated by the text of the decree-law in question, and thus also the violation of constitutional norms. Colleagues of the majority, but here there is a violation of at least equal seriousness, which is that of the mandate that the citizens have given you, to solve problems and to give them that security, which comes, for example, from creating work, from telling where and how you will create it and where you will find the resources for the next financial manoeuvre. Instead, you want us here to discuss measures that are merely propaganda and certainly, as has been said, characterized by great inhumanity. This is not a moral issue that is separate from politics, because we think that public ethics is never separated from politics. International laws and our Constitution tell us that people in danger cannot be drowned at sea. From now on, the measure under consideration, if approved, will be able to choose whether to drown human beings or incur such severe penalties, that even when they are only financial, they have already been catalogued by lawyers as basically criminal penalties. As has been said, the objective of the decree-law in question is to discourage the rescue at sea of boats that risk shipwreck, just because they carry migrants. I would like to conclude with a consideration that I would not have done if we were not in an era of personalization of politics, which I deeply regret, for which we know all about our rulers. We know how short moments of relaxation and vacation pass, we know that music listens and, lately, we know that they attend the "Papeete Beach." We also know - I say this through you, Mr President - that the Minister of the Interior is an admirer of some poetic verses of great humanity - I do not want to call them songs - and we know that he has delighted to play and sing "The War of Piero" or other songs of a great poet, such as Fabrizio De André. I thought, when I learned this news, that as long as you are able to listen to or sing those verses, maybe there is still some humanity. I would ask, then, always through you, Mr President, that the Minister of the Interior, between one Papeete Beach and the other, between an anthem interpreted by the cubists and another, perhaps even a little alone, listen to those verses. Verses that say no to arms, that say peace, that say humanity, that say reach out to people, that invoke human beings and that invoke countries with this sense of dignity and with this sense of responsibility. That is why we insist that this measure should not be examined. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u21	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, the decree we are preparing to vote on this question in this House is a decree that the Forza Italia Group would have written differently. In any case, however, it tries to regulate an epochal phenomenon, that of migration, limiting the scope of action on the national territory and characterizing the issue on the topic of security. As Forza Italia, we firmly believe that we must abandon all ideological positions on this issue. Too often, both from the right and from the left, the migration issue has been overly politicised. On the contrary, it should be read in its complexity, as a phenomenon that is the consequence of other major issues, such as globalisation, wars, the extreme backwardness of the African continent. On the other hand, its management should involve supranational bodies, primarily Europe. Italy alone, because of its geographical position, needless to deny it and useless to remember it once again, had to face, and must, a humanitarian emergency on its own. However, if the places of negotiation are deserted, if direct confrontation and provocation are sought, instead of working firmly and competently in European fora, the question will remain unresolved and prey to the egoisms of individual states. The way forward should be to negotiate and diplomacy, in the same way as the Berlusconi Government has done in the past, but also to revise the Dublin Treaty and, above all, to envisage a major Marshall Plan for Africa. Blocking an NGO ship in a port, however sacrosanct, if it is contra legem, prevents the landing of 40, 50, 100 people, but it certainly does not solve the problem. I will never tire of saying it: dealing with such a complex subject with superficiality and slogans will bring consensus on the immediate, perhaps, but sooner or later the knots will reach the comb. These knots, day after day, are emerging. There are thousands of irregular migrants who are not entitled to political asylum pending repatriation. You don't even know exactly the number. The Minister for the Interior himself has gone from 600,000 to 900,000. One fact, however, is certain: since the beginning of this parliamentary term, returns have risen from 20, already insufficient numbers in themselves, to 19 per day. And it doesn't seem to me that security-a decree is very incisive on this issue. Of course, there are many critical issues, first of all that of not having allocated enough resources for the Forces of Order, as requested by Forza Italia several times. I, too, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have reiterated what Mr Malan and Mr Gasparri have requested, that is to say, to meet the needs which have emerged several times in the course of this parliamentary year, that there is a need for more resources for the Forces of Order. We have proposed EUR 1 billion to be allocated for new recruitment or better organisation of the Forces of Order. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have made ourselves prepared to withdraw all our amendments, so that we can put the emphasis on this issue, and we have also done so before the representatives of the Government. Unfortunately, our request has so far been unheard of. It is quite unusual, in fact, that we do not intervene on two key points, which more than any other would guarantee the reduction of the problems: a more massive presence of the Forces of order and returns much more substantial and better organized. While the latter require a know-how and diplomatic relations with the countries of North Africa (in a particular way and not only), on the contrary the valorization of the presence of the Police Forces, the Guardia di Finanza, the Harbour office and the Carabinieri would have required a simpler effort; it is enough to allocate more resources and with them give more support to our Forces of the order, that they are doing so much for us. For example, I can tell you a personal experience: two weeks ago I was in Lampedusa, with a delegation chaired by the President of the Parliamentary Monitoring Committee on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, to touch with hand what is happening there. Yesterday was also in Lampedusa the president of our Group, Anna Maria Bernini. We realized two things, one of which is very significant and important: there the State is, is present, is strong. Our Forces of Order are worthy of being remembered in this context, because the Guardia di Finanza, the Air Force, the Carabinieri, the Police Forces, all act in an extraordinary way on that island, which is closer to the coasts of Tunisia than to the Italian ones. Unfortunately, however, that border, which is a European border rather than an Italian border, still remains abandoned and not taken into due consideration by our allies in the European Union. This is the only subject that we have remembered for a long time and which unfortunately is not met. I would also like to remind the administrators of Lampedusa, because it is right to remember how those Italian administrators, of an Italian border placed at the extreme South, should not and cannot be abandoned to themselves. I must remind you once again, however, that the work of NGOs in the Mediterranean, if on the one hand it cannot be demonised by a liberal party like ours, which believes in the principle of subsidiarity, on the other it cannot continue to be carried out in the total contempt of Italian laws. The episode of the Sea-Watch is an example of this: it is unacceptable, for a sovereign state, that a ship, even if small, spurs a boat of the Guardia di Finanza, forcing a blockade imposed by the Italian State and the Italian Government. I would like to remind you - as my colleague Mr Romani has already done - that in the last parliamentary term, in the context of the cognitive inquiry at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was made by Forza Italia, through the then President Romani and Senator Gasparri, the request that all non-governmental organisations operating in that area of the southern Mediterranean be audited. That work was useful, because from it came out a code of conduct that was assumed by the then minister Minniti and that determined a collapse of departures and of course of arrivals on the coasts of Southern Italy, particularly on those of Lampedusa. That was a form of institutional collaboration that can be repeated and that certainly has done good, because it has allowed to severely limit the damage, avoiding that non-governmental organizations can continue to carry out independently what they do, in an absolutely irregular way. I would like to remind you that international law is clear in this regard: there is in any case an obligation to save lives, but it is not possible to go and catch shipwrecks in Libyan territorial waters and then bring them to Italy in the absolute indifference of our European partners. Too often we were accused of selfishness when, in the meantime, migrants from the French borders arrived and rejected and the same happened at the Austrian borders. Here the European theme emerges again. It is short-sighted to think that the break-up of the Union could bring benefits on the migration issue. On the contrary, European constraints on common foreign and security policy should be strengthened. The construction of a European army and a common foreign line, removed from the method of the intergovernmental decision, which leaves room for egoism and particularity, would be of fundamental importance for Italy. I would like to conclude by saying that this measure is trying to solve the problems of immigration. Forza Italia welcomes it, although, as I said, it would have written it in different terms and would have played a different role in organizational terms. We are, of course, opposed to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, we do not revisit the reasons for constitutional illegitimacy in this measure, although - I repeat - we have put the issue of the greatest resources to the Forces of Order that we must take into consideration. We ask that the Government, in particular the partner of the League, one of the two members of this majority, take charge of the matter, not only to chat, but also in fact. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Forza Italia will therefore vote against the question referred for a preliminary ruling, just as it will vote against the Left's proposal, in line with its own history and the centre-right programme on the basis of which the citizens have given us confidence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u22	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred to the Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1) and Senator Marcucci and other Senators (QP2), referring to the bill No. 1437. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1437, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u24	Mr President, the informal hearings and the general debate have been held in the first Commission these days, and the stage of explanation of the amendments has come to an end. Finally, the agendas were presented and voted on this morning. As the inquiry is still under way and we have not yet received the opinions of the Budget Committee, we have not been able to go further with the vote on the amendments. I therefore believe that there are no conditions at this time for the measure to be discussed in this House with a mandate to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Borghesi's report, draft law No 1437, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Presidency has carefully assessed the amendments in accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The list of inadmissible and inadmissible ones is in distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u26	Dear President, kind colleagues and representatives of the Government, that uncontrolled immigration should be regulated with restrictive measures compared to the past, even at the cost of sacrificing the traditional propensity to welcome so much of Italian society, I believe it can be recognized by all, despite criticism, especially of the Catholic world and not only, for the management of some cases in which the protection of human rights could be managed with greater respect. The numbers, however, seem to be right about this policy of rigour, given the considerable decrease in the landings of immigrants, at least those certified. I say this because several arrivals of small boats have long been reported along the coasts of southern Italy, especially of the two major islands, but also by land, along the way of the Balkans. I wondered whether this policy of administrative rigour was the most effective way of tackling and resolving at the root such a complex and epochal phenomenon as migratory flows. My twenty-year experience in development cooperation, particularly with the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and sub-Saharan Africa, has led me to two conclusions. The first is that the phenomenon has roots and motivations so deep that, if not addressed in all their aspects, it risks to grow and not to stop. The second, therefore, is that no country alone can cope with it. We must have the foresight of a broader vision that leads us to consider the history of relations between the West and the African continent: centuries of colonization, oppression, selfishness, starting from the slave trade, have reduced large areas of the African continent into a condition of prostration, subalternity and poverty. Desertification, dispossession of resources, political interference, corruption: this is the currency that the developed West has used in the exchange with African countries. In the post-war period the process of decolonization took place contradictoryly and the two winning superpowers replaced the old European colonialism. Decolonization had produced fragile democracies, weak ruling classes, at the mercy of the strategies of the two superpowers. In the new world order outlined by Truman in his programmatic speech of 1949, it was declared the need to support the underdeveloped countries so that they could stem the gap that alienated them from Western countries. The development and underdevelopment dichotomy was seen in the unidirectional sense, as an automatic transition from a backwardness situation to a development according to the liberal model. The key word to make him accept as desirable and politically correct was the introduction of the concept of interdependence: Rich countries and poor countries would be complementary; one eager for the raw materials of the other, the other for the technologies and know-how of the dominant countries. Interdependence! How much hypocrisy behind the word interdependence that all political forces have repeated as a mantra for decades in their programmes and that, even today, the European Union places at the basis of its relations with Africa. We know that interdependence can work in an equal relationship. But, if the gaps are so evident, one-way interdependence only produces subalternity. This is what happened in Africa from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) programmes, which imposed monocultures, hardwoods and forced industrialization, directing the economies of these countries towards exports in order to recover the dollars necessary to repay the debts contracted. This is where the modern migratory phenomenon, accentuated by the countless wars that in most cases are the result of the clash of the dominant powers for the control of the African continent's energy and natural resources, is born, as well as to pursue models of well-being and illusions of personal growth. If we consider today the two most critical points from which emigration to Italy, namely Libya and Syria, is born, this appears to be clear evidence. In the 1990s the European Union, albeit late, had undertaken courageous Euro-Mediterranean cooperation policies with the Barcelona Conference, a prerequisite for a new approach to the African continent. This Conference had launched a cooperation policy based on three pillars: cooperation for peace, security and common development, even assuming the implementation by 2020 of a free trade area. It was a season full of hopes but too short, broken after 11 September in the changed geopolitical picture and in the winds of war that are achieved. Since then, Europe has been retreating, freeing up the conflicts and the only forces that could manage them - whether they were the United States or Russia - in opposition to Islamic fundamentalists. The European Union has turned to neighbourhood policies, in the illusion of negotiating agreements to counter migrants' departures to Europe and securing contracts for their energy needs. It is no coincidence that, since the third millennium, all the Mezzogiorno of Italy, including islands, but also the whole of the vast area of the South-East of the Mediterranean have undergone, because of geopolitical changes, a change of course that, from a perspective of cooperation, has turned into mistrust and legitimate policies of contrast to uncontrolled immigration. The problem that we must honestly ask ourselves is, in my opinion, the following: Will such migratory flows be crediblely combated only by administrative measures and by careful monitoring of landings? Would it not be more effective for them to be accompanied by bilateral agreements, but, even more so, multilateral ones, with a view to promoting technical, scientific, economic and training cooperation projects that will help the African people to stop the exodus and promote opportunities for economic and social development? Is it enough to ask Europe for a sharing and a fair distribution of migrants or would it not be much more reasonable to demand that Euro-Mediterranean policies be re-launched which have been misplaced? Furthermore, given the scale of the migration phenomenon and in order to counter the exploitation by criminal human trafficking organisations, would it not be much more effective to establish a European immigration agency with operational fora in Africa, for the better management of the phenomenon as regards both humanitarian corridors and return policy? When I came to the conclusion, I allowed myself to suggest some lines of action in my speech because the decree-law came to us from the House without the possibility of being amended. I trust that they can be taken into account and it is in this spirit, perhaps illusory, that I preach, even with the reservations I have mentioned, my vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u28	Mr President, I asked to speak in the general debate on this measure, although perhaps the most appropriate place would have been to examine the amendments. But since the question of trust is likely to be raised, I feel obliged to do so at this time. I would like to talk about a security issue and specifically about national security, which I believe is ahead of individual security, and which the state must guarantee to its citizens. The case concerning national security has been described by the same decree-law presented by the Government on 11 July in this House, which is strangely bogged down in the committees of competence. Think a bit: a decree-law - it was then presented for needs and urgency and, as such, signed by the Presidency of the Republic - which is in force but which, strangely, the majority decides to make it lapse. We have taken the text of this decree-law, which we also consider necessary and urgent for national security, and we have tabled it in the form of an amendment to the decree-law on security in question, which, as such, certainly cannot ignore national security. The decree of 11 July last, presented in this House and assigned to a plurality of Commissions that have not even begun the process, is a measure that in turn amends the decree-law on Brexit - therefore also necessary and urgent - presented in March of this year, in which (Article 1) had been quickly inserted a rule concerning the extension to broadband and 5G of the Italian legislation of 2012 on golden power. I am talking to you about an important and significant issue for national security and also for our international relations, as can be seen from the recent meetings between ambassadors and companies with the ministries concerned and the Presidency of the Council on this decree. Well, in the July measure of this year, the March Decree-Law was modified in turn to make it more stringent with regard to the supervision of contracts that are already being concluded and have already concluded on broadband (i.e. on 5G). This to the point that the legislation provided for in the decree-law of March, then converted into law, has already been applied to some European companies operating in our country, who have had to respond rightly to the address of the Presidency of the Council precisely regarding national security in relation to contracts that they were carrying out with some non-European operators. Well, the Government considers it necessary and urgent to submit a change to that text in order to make it more stringent. But then - it happens - the decadence of this decree-law is announced and, at the same time, there are triumphalist interviews of some great international operators, who say they have intervened to make the Government understand that that decree was wrong, and announce it triumphantly in interviews issued several times in Italian newspapers, as if they had a power of intervention on the Government. We are talking about a large Asian multinational that operates in Europe and mainly in Italy and intervenes in the Italian legislative process. Now we know, reading the newspapers, that that decree-law should be allowed to lapse and then be re-submitted as a rule in a draft law already submitted in the field of cybersecurity to the House of Deputies. It is a little strange - I say this for the legislative process - that a decree-law which is handed over to the Head of State and to Parliament with the requirements of necessity and urgency is then allowed to lapse - but still in force - to be transformed into a draft law will need a few months before becoming a law. I wonder: if it was necessary and urgent before - and we all recognize its necessity and urgency, the Presidency of the Republic itself has done so - can suddenly become unnecessary and not urgent to the point of being transformed into a draft law, which therefore will not have force for a few months, if ever approved, leaving Italy vulnerable? And all this happens at the decisive moment when the contracts for the implementation of broadband are concluded without a legislative provision that allows the Government - as the Government itself had asked, presenting the measure in this Chamber on 11 July - to intervene to exercise its supervision over the contracts that are being carried out. There is something wrong: there is a hand too much that makes us play in this Parliament the game of goose - we go ahead and we go back - to respond to unconfessible international interests that the government, or part of it, obviously appears to be succubus. We have said this here without inflaming ourselves so that we can understand that, beyond security, slogans and demands, first of all there is national security, with which we cannot play. We cannot play in this case, we can never play. We denounce it so that it remains the acts of Parliament and of the country. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u29	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u30	Mr President, in agreeing with many of the points made by Mr De Petris, Mr Parrini and others, I would just like to focus on one aspect of the issue that this House is called upon to consider and discuss today, and then finally to vote. The weight of the provision in our examination is all within Article 1: an article that we can define, in many respects, decidedly out-of-date; not heretical, out-of-date. It is subversive because it entrusts to the Minister of the Interior the discretion in judging a rescue intervention at sea dangerous or not for national security. Where's the exversion? The approval of this measure - with that article written in these terms - is not only to weaken Italy's international commitments on documents, agreements and protocols that have been recalled here and have been signed, on which I, therefore, do not extend. Gravity stems from the fact that we entrust a Minister - in this case the Minister of the Interior - with discretion over people's lives. The existing legislation of 1998 is completely overturned here, when it was the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - as Mr De Falco reminded us - to have competence in relation to the matter. Above all, the most worrying aspect of the change is the perfectly unfamiliar role of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. While the concert is planned - in the face of a decision taken by the Minister of the Interior - with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the rule in Article 1 provides that the President of the Council of Ministers should be telephoned, i.e. he who presides and has functions of coordination of the activities of the Government should be informed of a decision taken. I am happy to wait for what the Quirinale will do with respect to a standard, if approved, of this nature. There is a second and final consideration to be made. The Minister of the Interior works on this front having reached a perfect marginality in the heart of the European Union. When we maintain positions of this nature - we are completely cut off from any function, even though we are a key country in the history of the European Union - then - it has already been said, but I would like to stress this - the refuge is in resentment. But resentment, Mr President, generates anger and anger generates hatred. This is a measure which risks increasing not only the deaths at sea, but also an incredible hatred of an issue which should be dealt with first at Community level. I do not know - and I shall conclude - how many votes will be taken to approve the measure. I know, however, that its political weight would require a vote with a qualified majority. In fact, we need a majority that is the real and effective one of the Senate to support a measure that has a very high political weight. I do not know if there will be; I hope so. What I know is that tomorrow morning we will have, in reverse, a Minister of the Interior who will monkey a great President of the Council: Giovanni Giolitti. Giolitti always held to himself, as Head of Government, the Ministry of the Interior. Tomorrow we will be in a position to have an interior minister who is not yet President of the Council, but who in fact takes on himself all the functions that that Prime Minister of the early twentieth century assumed thanks to the vote of the voters. [[Applause from the Mixed IPS and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u31	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first security decree, months ago, was a deception for the country. The fact that now, at a very short distance, we must resort to the second security decree is the testimony of this. At the time of security there was no such thing, and even now, within this second decree, there are no security measures. Of course, there is the usual anti-immigrant propaganda and it is in abundance: closed ports; possibility to seize the ships to those who save human lives; the usual refrain that serves to feed the show of the strong man in command, with the iron fist, then being totally irrelevant and absent from the tables that matter. This is yet another instrument of mass distraction, which tries to divert attention from the real problems, starting with those related to the same Minister of the Interior, who uses the Police to play his son on vacation; who does not explain where the 49 million stolen from the League are; who shuns Parliament and the legitimate questions of the press and treats journalists as if we were living in a regime. With this new measure we continue to nourish in art an emergency that is not there, all in order to hide real emergencies, both the economic stagnation in which the country pours, the growing youth unemployment or the exodus from Italy, now superior to the years of the economic boom. The most serious thing is that, in the much-declaimed decree-law, we do not address urgent issues, which should instead be dealt with quickly where we really want to protect the security of the country. I am thinking, for example, of the very delicate anti-terrorism issue, for which we need a rapid updating of our legislation. A European anti-terrorism judicial register will be established in Eurojust as from 1 September, where a series of data will be collected to best protect themselves against possible attacks. However, if we do not act quickly with a specific law, Italy risks remaining totally out of it and is therefore particularly vulnerable. But the government, of course, doesn't care. And to say that it is not just any NGO or a dozen migrants: we are talking about international terrorism, a current and extremely serious danger, which is only countered by the exchange of information, with close international cooperation between investigative forces and, precisely, with up-to-date legislation that allows its implementation. But international relations are not the stronghold of the present Government. On the other hand, why be surprised? Just as the European Parliament was deserted when it was a Member of Parliament, Salvini now systematically snubbes all the meetings of the European Interior Ministers in Brussels, losing sight of the useful and strategic interventions for the country. Perhaps we should ask for such meetings to be held at the Metropol Hotel or perhaps directly at the Papeete in Milano Marittima, so we could feel the thrill of finally seeing the Minister of the Interior, the same Minister who in these days dispenses from there his interviews with bare torso and in bathing suit. Beyond the folklore, when it comes to providing concrete measures, the government - alas - latite, as on another crucial game in the matter of security that could have been and had to face seriously in this decree-law, that relating to the Forces of Order. The Commission, in fact, makes huge proclamations, but then, despite the fact that the police forces are heavily undersized, when it would have the opportunity it is well guarded from realizing that recruitment plan that we had planned and financed with our PD governments. Therefore, not only are representatives of the security sector reduced to pastime for the Minister's family; they are not only apes wearing their uniforms and sweatshirts, but, above all, their demands are totally disregarded. And not only do we say so about the opposition; said a couple of days ago the head of the police, the prefect Gabrielli, who denounced how the current 99,000 men are strongly undersized compared to the 117,000 we had planned to reach by our law Madia; law with which we created the conditions for the completion of the staff of the security and public order sector in five years. Not to mention the issue of wages: this decree-law does not make any progress, neither with respect to the increase of salaries, nor with respect to the de-taxation of overtime; it does not renew the increase of 104 euros net monthly that we of the Democratic Party have introduced in the last three-year contract with our Governments, an increase that should also be renewed for the new three-year bargaining. With the decree security- bis the only thing certain are the unwitting promises, those made by Salvini to the women and men of the Forces of Order. Among other things, this decree does not solve even a whole series of problems caused by the Government with the first security decree: I am thinking of the restrictions introduced for machines with foreign plates in circulation in Italy, restrictions that are causing a whole series of frontier artisans workers, who operate in San Marino or in Südtirol or in other border locations. But the government remains deaf to the matter and all our amendments to the House - which have not even been dealt with here - have been systematically rejected. With this measure we continue to cry out to the wolf, to the wolf in relation to the migration issue, as if it were the country's number one emergency, while the emergency is no longer there, since then Minister Minniti introduced a clear policy, based on rules, but at the same time also on humanity. The current Minister of the Interior, however, with his policy is isolating Italy at an international level and is compromising historical alliances with our closest neighbours, without realizing that not only this mode is extremely harmful to the country at a geostrategic level, but also offers a totally distorted view of reality and problems, risking to make a resounding political mistake. In fact, if there is a real migratory emergency in Italy it is not immigration, but rather emigration, as the research institute Svimez rightly pointed out only a few days ago with a detailed study. In fifteen years 2 million people have left Italy, often the most educated and more than 60 percent young people, a third of them graduates: a huge human capital, given away; a wasted investment, even just for the training routes financed for more than 42 billion euros. This would require a decree-law, Mr President, and then another and another, to counter these emergent phenomena. It would take a number of measures, both to promote employment and to promote youth entrepreneurship; an investment plan in culture, training; measures to reconcile career and birth; aid to local authorities; measures to integrate. In short, we would need the exact opposite of what is being put in place with this measure; an embarrassing, inadequate measure, on which we will vote strongly against. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u34	Mr President, it is sad to have to think of orphaned amendments, which will not even have the opportunity to be discussed; amendments which would have filled the many gaps - and there are - of a decree-law which is added, like encore, to another security decree, the first, which obviously, in the absence of implementing decrees, failed to do its duty. Brothers of Italy have tabled almost 70 amendments which would have filled those many gaps, but unfortunately they will not be discussed. My attention, our attention, your attention must now be focused on one of the many large absentees of this security decree- bis: I am referring - and I am doing so with passion and conviction, because it is an issue that Brothers of Italy has always supported, even by presenting numerous questions to the Minister of Defence - to "Safe roads." Yesterday, August 4, was the anniversary of this operation, which completed eleven years of employment, having been born with Law No 125 of 2008, containing urgent measures in the matter of public security. From then on, contingents of the armed forces are used to monitor sensitive sites and coordinate the police forces in patrolling, for an overall operation to prevent and combat crime and with a role to deter the terrorist threat, which is real. I call on everyone to read the UN report, announced the other day and dated July 15, on the terrorist threat in Europe. But let's get on with the numbers. The operation has 16,000 arrests. The operation involves the seizure of more than 2 tons of narcotic drugs. The operation has the active - and is no small - identification of three and a half million suspicious people. The operation employs more than 7,000 units, that is a figure almost equal to that that altogether is employed by Italy in its international missions. We ask you, then, because there is no attention in the security decree- ter a fundamental operation as "safe roads." [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is nice to fill your mouth when we send our soldiers to plug the holes or to Castel Volturno, thanks also to the role played by the Brothers of Italy, and then we do not take care of their equipment, their housing, their psychophysical well-being. In fact, you don't deal with it at all. There's no safe road operation in the security decree. With our amendments we would have proposed a strengthening of this operation, an increase, an extension, more funding. No, there's nothing for them. There is nothing for this operation, which deserves, instead, dignity, operation and support. We must therefore be consistent and consistent. You need to recompose the internal fractures of the majority, between one Ministry and the other. We don't care. The operation "Safe roads" is the pride of this country, but we must be consistent: instruments, dignity, equipment for this operation. Then you don't look good and don't call the army if when you can support it you forget about it. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u35	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u36	Mr President, the decree-law at our examination that the Government wants at all costs and on which the umpteenth question of trust will shortly be placed, mortifying Parliament, has nothing to do with security; on the contrary, it is a dangerous measure, yet another deception, yet another wrong that you, Lords of the Government, do to our country. You want at all costs, obsessively, to make us believe that our security is in danger because of immigration, but you know perfectly well that this equation is false. It is made of art because it is easy to communicate and to make believe; because it is convenient to have a scapegoat, an outside culprit, a foreigner on whom to dump your inability to solve even one problem that is one, your inability to govern, the inability to keep promises. It still shoots, on the net, a video from two years ago of Salvini saying that the first thing he would do to the government would be to cut excise duties on petrol. Not only that: you did not do so, but you also reason to increase those on diesel and we are at risk of increasing VAT. You're not capable of governing. Our country is a country that in two years has lost positions, especially the weakest people; it is a country that is poorer, worse, less secure. Many young people are forced to leave Italy to try to carry out their life project elsewhere, but you don't care. All you want to do is say we have to close the ports. That is the motto of your government. You're not interested in solving fears, but feeding them, so you can then exploit them. Here is a political point, because the decree-law at our examination clarifies once more that this is the Government of Salvini. Pieces of additional power pass into the exclusive ownership of the Minister of the Interior. It is a blow to the government's balance, it is yet another blow to Parliament. This decree-law is proof of the subalternity of the 5 Stars. And there is a pathetic, grotesque episode, if it were not dramatic: to pursue the League on the ground of the criminalization of NGOs, Minister Di Maio introduced in the decree-law to our examination the becero measure of the confiscation of the ships that assist; methods that are used against the mafias. You put those who save lives and those who kill on the same level, and this is very serious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's irresponsible. To say that we close the ports is an abuse of unconstitutional power, in defiance of Article 10 of our Constitution that establishes the sacrosanct right of asylum. Faced with the epochal drama of emigration, we have the duty to ask ourselves where the latter of the world come from, the little ones and the poor of the Gospel; from what atrocities, violence and miseries seek shelter. We have the duty of our laws and international laws to give them a safe harbour in the shortest possible time. You, on the other hand, have no hesitation, in order to build a ferocious media circus of mass distraction, to keep dozens, hundreds of people, including women and children, often in extreme conditions, enticing the enormous merits won on the field in recent years by our Navy, capable of saving and helping thousands of lives with operations Mare nostrum, Triton and Sophia that you are dismantling. 13:55 (Followed by Mr Verducci). Italy is a great country and, in order to continue to be a great economic power, it must continue to be a great moral power; while you, instead, trample on the honor and name of Italy. You do everything you can, introducing heavy sanctions, to criminalize and make earth burned around those who save lives. But this is a monstrosity: realize it. You violate by decree a sacred law of humanity, which says that it is always necessary to fulfill the duty to save lives. That's why Sea-Watch commander was released, whose arrest you had toasted. For this reason we must make our own the words of the fisherman Gaspare Giarratano, of Sciacca: I wonder if only one of our politicians has ever heard in the darkness of the night, in the enormity of the sea, crying out for help in despair. Mr. Salvini, you do everything you can to ridicule those cries of help, and yet those cries concern you, concern us and it is a crime to ignore them. With the decree-law in question you are the creators of a huge moral corruption of our country, of an absolute reversal of values, which hurts and leaves signs difficult to heal. You have cleared campaigns of hatred and xenophobia, they have grown out of proportion, in recent months, episodes of violence and intolerance with a racist background. Moreover, if you were interested in security, you would clear out of the centre of Rome the abusive occupation of CasaPound, instead of publishing our books. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and you would remember that fascism is a crime. If you are interested in security, then you will know that security is first of all integration, rules, controls and instead affected the legal ships, those of NGOs, removed from the Mediterranean the ships of our armed forces and in fact encouraged the ghost landings, without control. You have brutally dismantled the system of widespread reception, centred on the municipalities, on transparency and on the territory, which in many parts of Europe have copied us. You have wiped out the Institute of Humanitarian Protection and forced into lawlessness, outside the control system, thousands of migrants, with the risk of making them labour for criminal organizations. It is you who strike security and give a gift to criminals, while security is created by opposing mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are the urgencies we have and you criminalize those who save lives. Security is created by making a total war on heavy drugs, heroin and cocaine, which kill most of all in our neighborhoods, especially the most disadvantaged ones. Security is done by affecting evasion, redistributing wealth and building welfare, but you don't. Security is created with the right to the house, facing the emergency housing, assigning the housing to the Italian families who have the right and not leaving them in the middle of a road, but you do not. Mr President, security is created with the right to study, with the right to care, reconnecting the center and outskirts of our cities, reopening a neighborhood cinema, a theatre or a library. Security is built by creating jobs, increasing industrial production, research and innovation, but you don't. Security is created by building participation and community, giving voice to those who do not have it and healing the fractures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Verducci. Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I shall conclude. The decree-law in question, however, does the opposite: the wrong and the deception here are present in making us believe that, by letting people fleeing the war die in the Mediterranean or in the Libyan lagers, we will feel safer. It is not so and we will say no to this wrong and to this deception, because those who are unable to do anything to save a life cannot be able to save a job, a hospital or a school and can neither be able nor worthy to govern a great country, such as Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u37	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u38	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, the decree-law under discussion provides for a series of measures aimed at strengthening security in our country, that security referred to several times in the first part of our Constitution and included in the matters of exclusive state legislative competence, in the public order and security endiadi, to indicate the matter relating to the prevention of crimes and to the maintenance of public order, understood as the latter as a whole of the fundamental legal goods and primary public interests on which the orderly and civil coexistence in the national community is based. We intervene, therefore, with rules that provide for the strengthening of legal garrisons and the allocation of resources, so that our Forces of the Order can operate under adequate conditions to restore greater serenity to our civil life. It is a precise duty, institutional and moral, to strive to ensure order on national territory. In order to ensure this, it is envisaged, alongside provisions of expansive measures aimed at strengthening the work of our Forces of Order, of young people at the service of the State and of all of us, ready to sacrifice their lives, also a series of tightening up of sanctions and penalties for anyone who does not intend to comply with the provisions imposed by our regulatory system in the matter of security and prevention, which never conflicts with international conventions and the observance of the Treaties, if not by means of skillful exploitations by those who, using the despair of migrants and embarking with them for the sole purpose of recovering credibility in the eyes of the public, aim to distort the meaning, the purpose and also the object of the measures of the Government. That is why I do not intend to subtract the discussion from the migrant issue. The tragedies that we have witnessed for years now in the waters of the Mediterranean are absolutely not attributable to a government policy that aims only to regulate the flows that, indiscriminately, and in violation of international and national norms, take place with condescending regularity towards our country. The dramas we have witnessed have not certainly happened for the greater controls exercised in our ports, but perhaps - I repeat, perhaps - because for too long those same ports, always open without the due controls, have fed the passage of the so-called taxis of the sea, often in the hands of false saviors, fooling thousands and thousands of men who thinking to reach Italy easily to give a better turn to their lives in reality lost life during the crossing. On the other hand, if the landing in Italy is really so difficult as you want to make believe, attacking on every occasion decisions taken instead to protect everyone, you can not understand why these organizations, that they work primarily to the transport of the migrants and that they navigate well equipped for the rescue of the so-called shipwrecks, do not direct the boats also to other ports, as previewed from the law, preferring to insist towards Italy. They are then stationed for several days near our coasts, finally ready to shout at the "dishumanization" when in their days (not considered, it is said, because they are useful for humanitarian purposes), others are added, always by law and exclusively for matters of respect for rules aimed not only to avoid illegal immigration but precisely to implement greater humanitarian protection. What has been said so far is not and does not want to be an exercise of cynicism: this Parliament and this Government are not insensitive to the deaths at sea and human rights issues. But today, while recognizing the centrality of Parliament, the only legislator, it seems necessary to have normative intervention, indifferent and urgent, in view of the international geopolitical scenarios that risk to reopen; hypotheses of new waves of migration. Hypothesis not to be underestimated during the summer period, when there are peaks of departures of boats loaded with migrants, also with a high risk of infiltration of terrorist cells that act seriously on our Community security. The persistence of an illegal migration system cannot be allowed where men, women and children are paying and unaware victims of immoral trafficking. We have always been prepared to share a programme of solidarity which is the result of a healthy confrontation and is willing to work with European states to ensure the protection and security of those in need, beyond the situations of actual law, for which Italian legislation already has extensive favorable protection. Today's trust is a duty to restore the right dignity to our institutions. During this last period we have witnessed the almost immune from sanctions of the authority of our Forces of the Order in areas of national competence; in fact, a disowning of our dignity as a Country Italy. In fact, while our compatriots were working to provide humanitarian assistance and care, the lives of our men of the State in the exercise of their duties were put at risk by the (fortuitous?) spurment. by those who, aware of impunity, did not deliberately obey a prohibition order. We can then discuss alternative ways of intervening, seeking solutions together, but we cannot allow indifferent - and this reminds me of a problem of conscience - the violation of the provisions of the existing laws, which prescind from the decree-law, without putting in place adequate measures of contrast to acts of unlawful arrogance disguised as goodness and sense of duty. Italy must have the right international and European recognition and must continue to exercise with due serenity solidarity towards all peoples, that disinterested solidarity that we have never failed and that we will not fail; solidarity that has always marked us in the eyes of all nations. And for this to continue to be so, I believe it is necessary to give confidence to our Government, by voting positively yes to the measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u39	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u40	Mr President, this is no longer about being or not being in the contract: this is about wanting to respect Italian laws, the Constitution, international treaties and conventions, or about wanting to criminalise a duty (to save human lives) and a constitutional right (to manifest for your rights). Here it is a question of choosing whether to respect the rule of law or become a barbaric country, careless of civilization and the fundamental rules of civil life. But above all here it is a matter of legislative sloppiness, because this decree-law does not reconcile and is incompatible with Articles 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution and with Article 593 of the Criminal Code, which regulates the omission of aid by providing for imprisonment for up to one year, which is doubled in case of death for failure to help. Surely there is an absolute ban on the refusal of minors. This article of the Criminal Code corresponds to Article 4 of Law No 689 of 1981. Then there is Article 51 of the Criminal Code, which excludes the punishableness of an action that has been carried out in compliance with a duty or in the exercise of a right. Saving and saving a human life, as we have seen, is a duty, and the exercise of one's own right is a case provided for in Article 51 of the Criminal Code, which excludes its criminality. Yet we are faced with a decree-law that punishes both of these actions. But above all, and still, it does not put hand in the single text on immigration, namely Article 10-b, which provides that, in order to identify the men and women who are being rescued, they must be brought down to the ground and brought to specific points set up for identification. So we do not even bother to go and amend the single text on immigration. The decree goes against the conventions on the sea, which oblige rescue at sea, such as the Geneva Convention and the Montego Bay Convention (Article 98). I am also thinking of Article 95 of the Constitution, when the decree-law refers to the President of the Council, providing that he is informed of decisions taken by other Ministers. We know, however, that Article 95 of the Constitution states that the President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. It maintains the unit of political and administrative direction, promoting and coordinating the activities of the Ministers, so it is not enough to inform it. What, then, is the assessment we can make? That Article 1 of the decree-law that you are about to convert is absolutely useless, first of all in the purposes that it sets itself, because it can never be applied. It refers to Article 19 (2) (g) of the 1982 Montego Bay Convention, with reference to ships carrying shipwrecks, considering that they have an aggressive attitude. But how can one think that a ship carrying shipwrecks has an offensive attitude, that is not harmless? It's gonna be hard to prove. What then has article 2, so much wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars in the Chamber? It provides for an abnormal administrative penalty, to such an extent that it is not proportionate to conflict with the penalty for the criminal offence, and we know that this creates a problem from the legislative point of view, because no one can be prosecuted twice for the same crime. As far as criminal offences are concerned, it should also be said that it should not be permissible for a legislative decree on the criminal code, because it is a matter, an architecture and a structure so delicate as to require a law that is the result of a debate in Parliament and not a decree of urgency. Article 2 not only does not provide for proportionality, but always provides for the confiscation of the ship, assuming that there is a crime before it has been verified, even if the offence must be established by a prosecutor and not by an administrative act. Let us therefore return to the idea that this measure is a real legislative mess that has nothing to do with what is proposed, that is to regulate the flows of immigration, because it focuses only on the great ships and the non-governmental organizations that transport immigrants collected at sea, not realizing probably - or not wanting to make to account the Italians - that 97 percent of the problem lies in the traffics that take place daily through the barchini of who really does illegal traffic, that they disembark continuously on our coasts. Considering that immigrants transported by non-governmental organisations account for 7% of the total, there is a question of what we want to do. The answer is that you want to make "fake", you want to light a big lighthouse and throw sand in the eyes of the Italians to distract them probably from the most important fact, namely the criminalization of the other right, that of manifesting. There is only one article that refers to the problem raised by the decree Salvini 1 (it has been said that it was probably necessary to make the decree Salvini 2 because the Salvini 1 was not done well). There is article 12, which provides for a return fund, but paradoxically and incomprehensiblely in this article there is no reference to safe countries: does this perhaps mean that among the intentions of the Italian Government there is that of repatriating people even in the countries from which they run for just cause? With Article 6, then we are only making a very hard blow to all social, political and trade union struggles: the criminalization of the right to manifest and dissent. This cannot fail to refer - I read from the website www.notav.info - to the actions that have been carried out in the Val di Susa for decades. Already with the first safety decree has been reinstated the crime of roadblock, which is an action that is put in place when you want to prove your dissent; now you also criminalize passive protection and the possibility of using fireworks to demonstrate your presence, to manifest. It is not only against the TAV and the no-TAV, but certainly against the autonomy, when you will go down to the square against the misery that the autonomy - as the North Regions want to implement them - will cause to the South, when it will be necessary to go down to the square to demonstrate against decisions that will create even more poverty in the poor countries or, however, against those who will protest for the rights of work and home. Maybe this is the real action that you want to hide by a fake action, which any court will reject because it is clearly in contradiction with all laws. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Pharaoh]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u41	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u42	Mr President, we are intervening on this decree-law with an eye to measuring the half-full bottle and the half-empty bottle; as always, we are forced to make balances in order to try to grasp the best of what is being submitted to us. It is clear that the measure is two-sided; and as Mrs Rauti said, it is a sort of integration of the first security decree. Hopefully we will see a third, a fourth and a fifth because there is so much that is missing in the provision that we hope there will be new editions, supplements in progress. Mr President, the first measure has also remained on paper and of the 17 implementing decrees not one has been targeted. It would have been logical, before issuing the second security decree, to tell us how to implement the first. However, it is a right-wing measure and, as such, we must clearly look at it and look at it with a favorable eye, more attentive - as I said - to what is and not forgetting all that is lacking. It is a right-wing measure because it determines the immediate confiscation of ships. It is something that we have written and argued in a provocative way; when we wrote that ships were to be seized and sunk we meant this: the ships that were the subject of crime must be confiscated and dismantled. This is the principle that finally seems to be accepted in the decree, of course always waiting for the implementing decrees. Then there is the increase of the penalty for the outrage to public officer. We have always stated that they considered it an affront to the fact that this crime had been decriminalised. This attitude, which, on the other hand, seems far from depressing, finds us totally in favour. Looking at the glass half empty, we are concerned about the lack of attention to the whole part of the crimes related to Islamic fundamentalism. I am happy to speak in this Chamber in the presence of Mr Candiani, because, my colleague, the whole part about Islamic fundamentalism must be followed in a clearly different spirit. We have argued with many of our proposals, such as the one for the control of funding for the realization of places of Islamic worship; we ask ourselves, in fact, where these money comes from (since in some cases it is also copious investments) and what is preached in mosques (we believe that everything that is practiced in mosques must be compatible with our order, with our system of crimes, including incitement). We also believe that the crime of Islamic fundamentalism should be foreseen and I hope that security decree 3 will allow us to see all of this. Moreover, in relation to the issue of Islamic fundamentalism, the whole issue of the Nigerian Mafia remains. You know that the calls to legislate with great attention on the fourth mafia are on the agenda and that even by illustrious men of law it is abundantly documented the presence and activity of this fourth mafia; I therefore hope that in a next measure all this will find space. In the meantime, we are optimistically prepared not to vote against this measure, but of course this will be much better than I will be the one who will make an explanation of vote on the whole measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u43	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today is a measure with which we are continuing the path taken by the decree-law security converted into law on 28 November last year, always with the logic of guaranteeing security and legality throughout the national territory. During the discussion in the Commission, however, it seems to me that this logic has not been transposed by some political parties, whose representatives have even come to the question of whether we are ashamed even to conceive such a measure, by pointing to the rules that are not intended other than to manage and control migratory flows, to defend national borders, to ensure the smooth running of demonstrations in a public place without these becoming an opportunity for urban guerrilla action and yet to strengthen the Forces of Order. While it is true that the measure affects crimes related to illegal immigration and the code of criminal procedure for activities related to it, it is equally true that this same measure places a great deal of attention on the Forces of the Order, continuing the work begun with the first decree-law security to restore the dignity that is incumbent upon them [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is certainly an act that is due to those who risk their lives every day in order to guarantee security to all of us citizens, without often having the right recognition and - worse still - receiving insults. Perhaps it is good to remember what situation the Forces of Order were in before the current Government, which started with the 2018 Security Decree and the 2019 Budget Law a new recruitment plan for Carabinieri, State Police, Prison Police, Finance Guard and Fire Department, allowing the flow of rankings, some of which have been stationary for ten years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, this new decree gives further force to the Forces of Order, and in this regard I contradict Senator Pagano, who intervened before saying that instead it does not happen. This measure instead gives new force to the Forces of the order, going to upgrade the garrisons of the Police Forces; increasing the mount hours of extraordinary work for the operating staff of the Fire Departments, with an appropriation of 380,000 euros for 2019 and 1,910,000 euros from 2020; authorising an expense of almost 5,5 million euros for 2019 and 2020 and 5 million euros from 2021 for the meals of the police personnel engaged away from home; establishing the Inspection of the schools of the State Police to coordinate the training and training; authorising the expenditure of 33.5 million euros from 2019 to 2026 for the clothing of the staff of the Police State [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; increasing the remuneration of voluntary staff of the National Firefighters' Corps by more than 2.2 million euros from 2019 to 2021 and by 1.5 million euros from 2022; bringing to 7 euros the amount of food vouchers for all security personnel from 1 September. Above all, which is very important, it introduces into the penal code that the offences of offense to the public officer, violence or threat, resistance and outrage to the public officer are considered of great seriousness. All this was possible thanks to the billion and a half saved by rationalising the resources allocated to the reception. In this regard, I would like to stress that we in the League are not against the reception and rescue of human lives, but certainly not in the terms used until before this Government, and the humanitarian corridors carried out in the last period are proof of this. In taking up the initial assumption, I ask you, Mr President, should I be ashamed of this measure? My answer is no. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Who should be ashamed is who, in the face of the assassination of a representative of the Forces of Order, says: "One less". Who should be ashamed is who, in a false capacity of welcome and goodness, authorizes the trafficking of human beings destined for crime, prostitution and exploitation. Who should be ashamed is who allowed the consolidation of a system that with the latest facts of the news unfortunately showed its worst face. I'm not going any further. Mr President, this measure is not, as Senator Parrini has said (I am sorry that it is not in this Chamber at the moment), always very imaginative in his definitions, an unnecessary abuse of power or, worse still, an expression of Minister Salvini's cynicism. Rather, it is a further effort to restore some legality and security in the national territory and to restore the right well-being that belongs to all those decent citizens who get up early in the morning to go to work, who daily have to return the accounts, who pay the taxes and who for this reason have the right to be protected and put first place in all our measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u45	Come to your conclusion, Senator Saponara.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u46	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm gonna finish. This is our great responsibility, which is partly translated into this decree-law. It is regrettable, however, that there is still someone who daily tries to demolish what this Government is doing to restore Italy's dignity. I am sorry to hear lessons about what should or should not be done, but the best lessons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are not the ones that are given by words but by example, and it seems to me that in this sense the government that preceded us has certainly not excelled, indeed. Italy and its laws must be respected; national borders must be respected; the Forces of Order and the institutions must be respected. First of all, it is our responsibility to set an example, if we are truly on the side of honest citizens, if we really want our nation to raise its head and have the respect it deserves in Europe. Welcome to the security decree-a. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u47	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need to promulgate the security-a-law is due to the vague interpretation that some magistrates have put in place of the first decree-law. This legislative act, in fact, has been designed essentially to stop the migratory phenomena that are still in place on most of the coasts of our South. In our country, in fact, too often the laws do not apply but interpret themselves, and this is not good. Turning to today's measure, it deals with matters which are certainly urgent and which have always been close to our positions. I am referring, for example, to the strengthening of undercover police operations, the rapid and certain execution of judgments, the regulation of interceptions, violence in stadiums. As I said, however, this decree-law intervenes primarily on the fight against illegal immigration, in a context that sees the traffickers of human beings still very active and increasingly unscrupulous. Non-governmental organizations are less and less respectful of our laws and our military. Article 2 provides for a sanction, ranging from a minimum of 150,000 euros to a maximum of one million euros, for the master of the ship in case of violation of the prohibition of entry, transit or rest in Italian territorial waters. In addition, the seizure of the vessel is also established as an additional sanction. The substantial difference between this decree and the previous one is evident from the fact that the confiscation of the ship was originally provided only if the crime was repeated. No mention, then, of how you really plan to stop the departures. Colleagues, it is not enough that people do not die at sea; it is not enough to enforce our laws to international non-governmental organisations; it is not enough to be respected in Europe (but without any result and to add to this there is still a significant confusion about the correct strategy on migration policy in Brussels, perhaps an accomplice of the transfer of deliveries between the old and the new Commission): we have to solve the problem at its root; we need a great plan for Africa, which certainly cannot only make Italy, but Europe as a whole. We must do what the United States has done for us at the end of World War II: we must give these desperate people who risk their lives the hope of building something at home. China is already doing this with billions of investments and a colonization of men and culture that has no equal in the history of humanity, and we are completely ignoring it. We legislators have a moral obligation to look at the problems from a broad and long-term perspective and not just at the final part, i.e. the boats in the middle of the sea, which are certainly more important at the electoral level, but represent only the tip of the iceberg of a huge problem. I would like to reiterate that, in the light of the problems arising from the first security decree, we are called to this House today to define once and for all the needs of the citizens whom we represent, to meet the expectations that most Italians ask of us. The measure before us, in short, recovers and relaunches the fundamental elements of the migration and security policy of the centre-right, taking back in a substantial way the fundamental points of the programme with which we presented ourselves to the voters. From the set of articles present in the decree-law, certainly the norm that leaps in the eyes of all is the one that intervenes on the priority of the contrast to illegal immigration, in a context that sees the traffickers of human beings and the non-governmental organizations particularly active, and a substantial spread of intentions between European countries of external and internal border. We are very perplexed, however, about the Government's intentions regarding return, which had been promised but which were not actually carried out. In particular, we do not understand how we intend to carry out a serious and concrete return plan with the few, or indeed very few, resources made available. On the return front, one wonders how a plan that aims to repatriate illegals with such ridiculous resources, such as those currently allocated, of about EUR 2 million if I am not mistaken, can be sustainable. It is precisely here that, in my opinion, we must be careful, because if we do not put in place an effective return policy we will have missed a great opportunity. We, as a Group, have been the first to shed light on the role of non-governmental organisations in our sea and to insist on return. However - and I would like to reiterate this - in addition to all the common sense rules laid down in the measure under consideration, we will not tire of repeating that a huge plan for Africa must be put in place to help these desperate people in their homes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So, to conclude, we Italians take our responsibilities and improve our rules to handle this emergency. However, with the same conviction, we call on Europe to play its part both by amending European legislation that penalises border countries, and by concretely committing itself to the development of the poorest countries in order to prevent new migrations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u50	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, security is a sensitive element for us. We have already demonstrated this during our governments, when, even with the help of the friends of the League, we introduced the figure of the neighborhood carabiniere and promoted the Operation Roads Clean. We were perhaps the only Government to have significantly increased the salaries of law enforcement officials. So, no one can teach us about this. However, I must point out two aspects: the first of method and the second of merit. With regard to the method, once again we note that the Senate is reduced exclusively to acceptance of the work, proposals and reports made by the Chamber of Deputies. Forza Italia (along with the League and also the Movimento 5 Stars) was the protagonist of the referendary battle that led to the rejection of the constitutional reform of the center-left, which in fact provided for the introduction of monocameralism. There is still bicameralism and we all wanted this to happen. In fact, however, in this legislature, with this majority and with this Government, monocameralism has been introduced fictitiously, because it is only the Chamber of Deputies that examines the measures, while we must only ratify them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Nugnes]] It is absolutely not fair that decrees-laws are presented in the Senate a few days after the deadline, however in the period before the holidays and holidays of all. Therefore, I hope that this situation will be taken into account and that, perhaps, some decree-laws may begin its examination process within the Senate of the Republic. This is the question of method. As far as merit is concerned, there is a large absentee in the so-called security-a decree. I am referring to the knowledge of the fate of the 600,000 illegal non-EU citizens who should have reached their territories of origin, but who, still today, are here in Italy at the expense of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Here too, we must point out that a formal commitment made by the Minister of the Interior, as well as Vice-President of the Council, to initiate procedures and methods of hesitating these gentlemen outside national borders, still today, does not know an answer. We have blocked the entry into our country or, in any case, we have severely limited it, but this Government has not bothered to send back home the irregulars still present in our country. Therefore, there is a question of method, because it is not possible that the Senate should only be called upon to ratify the decisions of the House of Deputies. Then there is a matter of merit. Perhaps this was the occasion when the government should have told the country and Parliament what it is doing to respect a commitment that had been made at the beginning of this journey. I do not want, Mr President, to entertain some of the rules that we share. The decree-law on our examination, wanting to use a singing similitude, reminds me of a song by Lucio Battisti: "I would... I wouldn't... but if you want to. In fact, it should speak of security, strengthening it with respect to the first decree, but in the end it is an announcement with very few contents. We agree on confiscation, sanctions against commanders and shipowners, and more, but at the time when the decree-law under consideration is written without prejudice to Italy's international commitments, you have to explain to me how you can combine the blockade, seizure, confiscation of ships and administrative and criminal sanctions with the commitments that Italy has signed and for which it has assumed the burden of saving immigrants, illegal immigrants and all those who are about to risk their lives, if there is no intervention or policy within the European Union. I do not believe, in the light of the checks made at the time of the election of the President of the European Commission, that this Government and this majority have the authority and ability to influence and intervene in this respect. I also want to dwell on some shortcomings of the decree-law. We have always heard from the Minister of the Interior, in his answer to questions and also during the hearing, when he spoke in the first Commission and in the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a, of a commitment to equalize the salaries of the firemen, who are taillights compared to the representatives of all the other police forces (although it is probably the Body that is most used to face emerging situations) to the salaries averages of the representatives of the Forces of the Order, which are already a misery. Instead, what do we do? Only a handout is introduced that increases the number of overtime. That was not the way to deal with the problem. Again, regarding the police forces, for which we have heard announcements of recruitments of 10,000-15,000 or even 20,000 units and salary adjustments, nothing is said at all; an economic game is introduced that serves to pay the meals to the police forces that intervene outside their departments and their territories. This is also a missed promise that should have been a commitment from the government. Compared to the 800 units, whose assumption by the Ministry of Justice is authorized for a year to deal with the execution of the sentences, I am an almsgiving, of which the planet justice does not need, because there is a chronic shortage of secretaries and chancellors who cast justice. Other than shortening the time of justice. Not only the magistrates are enough, but administrative staff are needed. Do you understand that or not? Finally, Mr President, there is no word on the prison police. I'm going around the prisons: they have a old-fashioned vehicle park, with vehicles that have 600,000 kilometers and need daily interventions. There are missing armoured vehicles, which are used for the translation of high-surveillance prisoners, and this poses serious risks to the prison police: there is no word about this either. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of a measure that is incomplete, but we cannot vote against it because security is part of our DNA. Evidently, we will take other forms to express our vote and our criticism of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u51	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u52	Mr President, members of the Government, it is a pleasure to speak in this debate in order to point out some things that, in my opinion, are of particular interest. Sometimes, when you face the theme of security you have as the most classic image of what was once the medieval castle: a sort of piece of our society, surrounded by walls with a drawbridge, commanded by someone who says "you enter" and "you don't enter." It is as if we had imagined a closed society, totally contrary to the cultural model with which we confront each other every day in the context of a globalized society. We cannot tackle the issue of security by imagining someone who, from a privileged point, regulates, point by point, who enters and who goes out and who does what. Yet this is the situation that we see. Unfortunately, we see it not only in Italy, but also elsewhere. The issue of security today represents an instance which, in order to be real, must be of everyone. We cannot protect the safety of some and not the safety of others, because, when these others do not feel protected, it will be their initiative to take measures that in some way affect the safety of those who might appear privileged. Today, therefore, it is only reasonable to address the issue of security if we take on a perspective that embraces everyone and gives everyone exactly those margins of freedom that our Constitution provides: Article 12, Article 14, Article 16; when they talk about personal freedom, freedom of movement they refer to a person who, in his context, can express the potential of his needs without having to feel constantly under the eye and under someone's observation. Of course, I do not know anyone who is not in favour of security; on the other hand, I know many people who bind security to what we call pathological beliefs. For example, it is a pathological belief that identifies with the immigrant, with the migrant, the element of greater instability in our system. It is only a few days ago - I make a quick reference, but I cannot help but mention it - the aggression that two men of the Forces of Order have suffered from two American boys, well-off, young, healthy. Too bad they had a small habit: drug addiction. By virtue of the drugs taken on and by virtue of a revelation, moreover known to all of us Romans (we know which are the places of the drug dealing in Rome, as the Milanese know where they are in Milan, the Florentines in Florence and anyone else), moreover in the place of the movida, particularly interested in tourism, that in this specific case was Trastevere, had gone to supply themselves with drugs. These two young men, of fine appearance, were those who, in fact, achieved the worst assault on a member of the Forces of Order, the one we have experienced these days. Now someone says they've been afraid of being choked, but I doubt anyone who feels choked puts 11 stabbed to someone else's abdomen. This tells us that, when we talk about the security and security of the people we care about (because they are also those who take our security to heart), we must have a broader look, a richer vision and, I would say, even more generous than the facts. It is not only migrants who are attacking our security. Conversely (and this is the great accusation, the great mystification), we appear in the eyes of public opinion, also international, as those who are attacking the security of migrants. This is the real paradox that we are experiencing right now: we must justify ourselves, not as those who feel attacked, but as those who are attacking; and there are many ways of exercising this aggression. Well, we know that the classic answer we give in these cases is the one we synthesize with the famous three "Ps": prevent, program and promote. Well, we are not in a position to take serious preventive action. It is clear that prevention cannot be done alone, we must do it together with Europe, but we have just received the visit of what should be the President of the new European Commission who asked us for a Commissioner. We who assume the aggression through migrants as the weak point of our system, could not ask for a high and strong commissioner to guard this horizon, this objective? No: we got away with it generically, making a rose of names, assuming a kind of profile but without taking a real position. We are unable to prevent the problem through clear and strong European policies. It seems to me that the League, just like the 5 Star Movement, rejected the revision of the Dublin Treaty and that was a serious mistake, a strategic mistake. We're not even able to program. It is true that we make very intelligent programming, as beautiful as the one for humanitarian corridors. It is a few days ago the news of an entire family who, after getting off the ship, was welcomed in a context in which we were prepared with an act of service to him, an initiative of high humanity and blessed. We cannot think, however, of moving forward with a commercial programming, that is, of isolated actions. We must have a programming that includes the whole field of what we consider migration at the moment, if migration is experienced as an element of difficulty. Finally, Mr President, for me to promote means first of all to take care of those who take care of our security. [[Applause from Senator Minuto]] I am referring to the armed forces. I am referring to the number of people and their training. I was frankly impressed, based on the news of one of our soldiers who went on an appointment without even a weapon. I don't know if that's okay, it certainly surprises public opinion, so we need a numerical promotion, a promotion of training, a promotion of quality and also an economic promotion because, in our culture, economic promotion is an indicator of appreciation and appreciation of your work by civil society. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again this Government humiliates the role of Parliament, once again it forces us to ratify a measure - because that is what will happen, we all know - without really being able to discuss it. Last week's disaster on the vacant Sicilian seat was not enough. The passage into the Commission of the so-called security- bis decree-law has been fleeting and will also happen here, where you will of course put your trust. Armored text, ignored amendments, the task of the senators will be limited to stamping - someone happy, others less - the will of the leaders, indeed of the captain. One step at a time you are transforming the temple of democracy into that deaf and gray classroom, into that bivouac of manipoli evoked at a time of which some, even here in here, feel nostalgia. And yet, colleagues in the majority, I do not want to give up the possibility of telling you that this decree-law is the lowest point of your government action, I correct myself, the lowest one so far, except that a security decree- ter is in preparation for chemical castration and forced labour. It is not enough, in fact, to have put something as good as the increase in resources for firefighters or those related to undercover operations. The provisions - which I share in part - on sporting events are not enough. Nothing, really nothing can balance the first articles of the decree-law at our examination. To introduce the payment of an administrative penalty of up to one million euros for those who save lives at sea is against the very sense of civilization. It is the result of the climate of hatred that is created and fed. They are attitudes that humanity, unfortunately, has already lived, that perhaps do not reappear in the same terms but are recognizable and no less harmful. With this logic you would also have fined Giorgio Perlasca. Those guys from Palermo noticed, too, remember? - which I quote just to tell the House that the famous withdrawal of the teacher's suspension, promised to unified networks, has never been. We are bombarded with reports, often false, that drive us to hate. Many of these news are fired - I do not use words at random - from the social channels of the Minister of the Interior, from that numerous staff of the "Beast" hired at the Viminale. Do we feel insecure because there really is a danger or because they convince us, by false alarms, that there is a danger? In the face of a problem it is easy to find a culprit, much less to propose a solution. The clever propaganda shows us, the perpetrator of the day, covering with the noise the real causes of the real problems of the country. If in a few years two million people have fled from the South, it is certainly not because of migrants. Everyone has the right to leave any country, including their own country: it is Article 13 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Those who arrive are women, men and children, who need help, who flee from those concentration camps in Libya, which should be closed today - indeed yesterday - by international bodies. They run away with dangerous crossings, which should be replaced by humanitarian corridors. That would cut off traffic and criminals. On the contrary, we prefer to persecute those who, by supplementing the role of the States and of the European Union, strive to prevent misfortunes and deaths. Walls, fences and sanctions do not work and do not increase security. Close down the centers and throw people on the street doesn't work and doesn't increase security. Always to point out as an enemy who is worse, to base one's consensus on the fear of the other is a way of thinking that I hoped had disappeared from the European mindset, but it does not seem to be so. On this basis, however, consent will soon deflate, leaving rubble on our civil and human fabric. Do you not notice that feelings are too agitated? Don't you get scared of the videos of someone who suddenly controls trains against foreigners or shouts at a young woman on the quay, like Captain Rackete? The insults and threats on social media? The rocks to the bicycle workers in Puglia? These are the effects that the Minister of Fear's propaganda has on people. Our country has signed international conventions, from which we cannot ignore. What is established by the Constitution cannot be modified by a decree-law and, above all, by the law of the sea. A fisherman from Sciacca explained it to you in very clear words a few days ago, if only you had the human capacity, before politics, to listen to him. He said: They can make all the security decrees they want, put all possible and imaginable fines, seize our boat. We are not rich, we are dignified fishermen and I emphasize dignifiedly. We know only one law, the law of the sea and we would never leave anyone adrift. We do it because we are men. And again (I want these words to resound in this House, in future memory): I wonder if only one of our politicians has ever heard in the darkness of the night, in the enormity of the sea, the cry of desperate help. We do. We cannot criminalise, as we are trying to do, the rescue at sea. You can't instill doubt in people like these that saving is a crime. The crossing of the Mediterranean on lucky boats is not a boat ride, dear senators. The end does not justify the means. The methods you are testing are undoubtedly effective in the short term and maybe they will make you full of votes when you have the courage to ask for these votes, instead of waving polls, as has happened so far. But these methods are not those of a civil state, of a rule of law. Politics, I've learned, is a tremendously serious thing. It is not with threats and with the introduction of ad hoc rules, we could say to situationem, such as the rule on the Diciotti case or that on the Sea-Watch case) that social and epochal problems are addressed. This decree translates Salvini's tweets into rules: you made Facebook posts a source of the right! You really exercise your responsibilities and, perhaps, you also do your policies, which I do not share, but with the instruments of diplomacy, law and international law. Otherwise, if you have the strength, change everything. But as soon as you cross the borders, as is now evident to yourself, by these methods you have no weight on the European chessboard. You're ridiculous about the international one. Like Harlequin, try to serve all masters and, like Harlequin, you always show up with a hat in your hand, in Russia, in the United States, even in Morocco. This decree, especially the first articles, goes against international norms, against the Constitution, against the very principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. If you only recover from the hangover of consent, you will hardly be able to get sleepy. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Brothers of Italy shares the content of this decree-law and would certainly have voted in favour if, as it seems, the position of the matter of trust had not been decided. We are convinced, in particular, of the financial penalties for the violation of the prohibition of entry, transit and rest in territorial waters, as we are convinced by the confiscation of the vessel used for this purpose. It was, and is, important to break the perverse relationship between hullists and NGOs. It is now before everyone's eyes that the boatmen put hundreds of desperate people into the sea, on boats that would be at their best fit to ford a small river, and then abandon them where they know that NGOs are ready to collect them. This is the perverse relationship that must be broken, and on this we absolutely agree. We would have liked, if anything, that finally majority and government had the courage to set up that naval blockade that Brothers of Italy has been asking unnecessarily for for years now. It is only by preventing departures that this invasion can be stopped, which is not only through the collection of these desperate NGOs at sea. There are also the ghost landings, thousands and thousands of people who land quietly every night on the coasts of Sicily, Sardinia, Calabria, Apulia and the whole of South Italy and who, of course, escape all control. We are convinced, in particular, by the changes to allow interceptions and undercover operations to combat the aiding of illegal immigration. We know that too many times, although we know how things were going, our judiciary has not been able to intervene adequately because of the lack of these instruments. We are convinced, moreover, that the extraordinary measures for the withdrawal of the execution of sentences, so that no more than criminals who should be in jail continue to criminalise the good citizens. We are convinced of the strengthening of the Police and Fire Departments; perhaps an extra effort could be made, as we have asked for with our amendments. We regret that no reference has been made to the very important safe roads operation, which has contributed so much to the safety of our fellow citizens. They convince us of the measures to stabilize the arrest in delayed flagency. We are convinced of the exclusion of the cause of non-penalty due to the fact, even when proceeding by violence or threat to the public official or by resistance and outrage always to the public officer, so that no longer happens that those who spit on a uniform are declared not prosecutable by a progressive judge because of the lack of relevance of the fact. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I would have liked to see if that spit, instead of the uniform of a mere policeman, had been placed on a magistrate's robe; I wonder if he would have issued the same sentence. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And we regret, indeed, that we did not want to intervene in order to radically modify the crime of torture, introduced in the last legislature by a majority of the Left, which binds hands and feet to the police judicial, preventing it from doing its duty to the full. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] Of course we regret this, as we regret the fact that once again this decree-law does not include the establishment of supervised centres where illegal immigrants are held, in accordance with what was decided by the European Council on 28 and 29 June last year. Germany has done so; it is incredible that Italy does not do so, which is at the forefront from this point of view. How we regret that we do not talk about the crime of Islamic fundamentalism and how, above all, we regret that we do not talk about how to finally proceed to the repatriation of the 500,000 or 600,000 illegals who continue to remain undisturbed on national territory, who continue to criminalize and who continue to endanger the safety of so many decent people. And we still regret that nothing is said about the need to move from promises to facts also in order to have the penalties obtained by illegal immigrants in Italy served at home. Italian prisons for 33-35 percent are full of illegals who are serving a sentence from us that should be taken at home instead. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] When will we finally move from promises to facts? When will bilateral agreements with the countries of origin finally be operational? We have the tools to do this, because it is not compulsory to give development cooperation to those countries that then refuse to return the condemned to their homes. Above all, we must overcome the obstacle that return can only take place with the consent of the person concerned: a veritable mockery, once again to the detriment of taxpayers and Italian citizens. Therefore, we regret all this, but nevertheless we recognise that this decree-law is an important step forward to give more security to citizens. Brothers of Italy always exist when it comes to giving security to citizens, fighting illegal immigration, strengthening the Forces of Order, when it comes to giving that security that is a right of every Italian, because there is no freedom without security. Nevertheless and despite the things that are missing, this is a step forward and we would have liked to have voted in favour if there had not been the issue of trust to prevent it. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u57	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u58	Mr President, the only security- bis decree useful to Italy would be the one that closes the social media in Salvini. Only with this measure will we be able to reduce hatred, racism and violence. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Recalls of the President]] I haven't even started, if you're already screaming...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u59	I will call the House back. Please, Senator Pharaoh, continue with your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u60	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, the credibility of the measure is undermined, first and foremost, by the credibility of the Minister who proposes it. An interior minister who speaks of public order and even writes a decree on the subject is one who has been sentenced to thirty days of imprisonment with the parole for contempt to public officer and for throwing eggs at Massimo D'Alema, except then naturally state, forgetting it, that the egg thrower is an idiot and we on this we agree, since he is a professional in this sport. How then can Salvini talk about justice, one who claims trials, handcuffs and prison for everyone, asking everyone to throw away the key and then, when he is subjected to criminal trial, escapes? [[Applause from the PD Group]] He escaped on February 14, 2016, after he insulted the judiciary, calling it a crap: twice he took advantage of the legitimate impediment to prevent the judiciary from prosecuting him. The process is scheduled for 5 November: we will see what institutional commitment it will place that day to take advantage again of the legitimate impediment. He also escaped on November 7, 2018, when the prosecutor investigated him for kidnapping and office abuse for not allowing the landing of the illegal migrants of Diciotti; then, on March 20, 2019, at his request and with the condescending role of the Movimento 5 Stars, the Senate denied permission to proceed, on the face of the parliamentary immunity instrument of the caste. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are very convinced, Mr President, that all violent demonstrations must be condemned: we agree that the Minister of the Interior and the Forces of the Order should intervene when they do. However, the right to strike cannot be denied; workers who risk losing their jobs cannot be denied the possibility, enshrined in the Constitution, of being able to demonstrate and do so at the maximum of the constitutional guarantee. I say this because in the past days, before the decree-bis was approved, it happened that the Russian ambassador Razov ordered dear Matthew, Minister of the Interior, not to make anyone manifest near the Lukoil of Priolo. This was enough for the Minister of the Interior to write to the Prefect of Syracuse to tell him to prevent any kind of gathering near the Lukoil of Priolo, because no one had to be allowed to manifest and it had to be given the possibility to that company to operate, as if the right to the demonstration and the right to strike were sanctioned by Russia. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are talking about another sovereign country that has ordered this sovereign country to prevent the strike and demonstration, in the same days when it was discovered that Salvini perceived economic resources from Russia to pay for his election campaign. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am ashamed of a government that has these characteristics and I am ashamed of parliamentarians who allow measures that condemn those who save human lives in a country in which, thanks to this Government, the "capitano" is the one who from the beaches orders that 116 migrants cannot land from Gregoretti and forces them for six days with a bath only, while Carlo Giarratana, the captain who saved them, according to his decree, is a criminal. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the country of which I am ashamed, Mr President. There were 116 people, with a bathroom only for six days. I do not know how many colleagues from the League are in the Chamber now, there will be about 50: I would give these 50 colleagues two bathrooms for six days to see what conditions we are in, to understand the level of inhumanity to which they have brought the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Salvini is inducing fishermen, NGOs and law enforcement forces to turn to the other side in the face of a boat in difficulty. As well as when he says "zingaraccia" on the same day that we commemorate the genocide of Roma and Sinti in Auschwitz, seventy-five years ago, or when he says that it would take special wagons for the Milanese, as there were for the disabled and the elderly, to allow the protection of the Milanese from migrants. It constantly tickles racist and discriminatory instincts and cannot fail to know it. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Salvini, you worry not to make Italy the refugee camp of Europe, but you don't care if the Mediterranean or the Libyan lagers become cemeteries of human beings. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Always look for the shortcut: in front of the thief who shoots, he first gives the guns to everyone to get justice of himself than to give money to the Forces of order to ensure the safety of the citizens. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators, let's get this surgery over with, and then there'll be a way to answer when it's your turn. FARAONE (PD). President, immigrants arrive and it is much easier to let them drown at sea. It is too difficult to go to Brussels to participate in the discussions in which the Treaty of Dublin is being discussed, in which the redistribution quotas are imposed on all countries, including that of his friend Orbán, who takes the money of the taxes of the Italians and does not at all take care to receive a single migrant, with the complicity of Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With respect to all this we oppose and will never have any condescending attitude to measures that make this country lose its soul. Finally, speaking of losing the soul, telling those of the Movimento 5 Stars who lost it, it would mean thinking they had it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u61	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u62	Mr President, Government, colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry not to think of you as Mr Pharaoh, but I love the Captain. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today I am particularly happy to be able to contribute, in general discussion, to the bill of conversion into law of the so-called security-a decree, which intends to highlight some aspects that concern the public security of citizens which, as you can see, is a central theme of the action of this Government. The decree-law that we are called to convert into law today contains provisions that aim to combat illegal immigration and guarantee public order and security, security for citizens, which are a central theme of the action of this Government. It is on these last aspects that I would like to focus my speech. The decree-law contains several measures on the subject and in particular the strengthening of the police forces' garrisons, through provisions that aim to facilitate the destination of public buildings to garrisons of the same Forces; the rules to ensure a greater functionality of the economic-financial activities of the Ministry of the Interior, through the increase of the organic endowment to be assigned to the staff of the area of central functions, whose greater burdens, in order to ensure the financial invariance, are compensated by the abolition of a number of managerial posts of level, not general, equivalent on the financial plane. It also provides for measures to ensure the control of the territory, at the Universiadi di Napoli 2019, through the employment of additional 500 personnel of the Armed Forces, as well as the establishment of the inspectorate of the schools of the State Police, having functions of connection and uniformity of action, institutions, schools, training and training centers of the same. The text also contains provisions on the fight against violence at sporting events, to combat a plague that afflicts our country, as well as measures to strengthen the activity of firefighters and on this last aspect I would like to focus. Article 8-b of the Decree-Law under consideration provides, in order to address unpredictable needs of service of the National Firefighter Corps, an annual increase in overtime hours of 259,890 hours for the year 2019 and 340,000 hours from the year 2020. We must take into account the fact that currently, in order to meet unpredictable and indivisible service needs, the annual allocation of overtime is set at 240,000 hours, so this is a significant increase: it is 100,000 hours more and certainly not a begging. Secondly, Article 17-a aims to reduce from 3 months to 5 weeks the duration of the training course for access to the qualification of foreman of the National Firefighter Corps in relation to the competitive procedure for access to the qualification of foreman, with effect from 1 January 2019 and by the number of posts corresponding to those vacant at 31 December 2018 in the role of foreman and undermanship. In essence, the time for training courses for access to qualifications is reduced and overtime is increased. The National Firefighter Corps provides an indispensable service, which is not limited to activity in all those situations in which there are potential dangers for citizens, such as landslides, floods or other cases of natural disasters, which are increasingly frequent in recent times. Such interventions must be carried out with a fundamental requirement, which is the immediacy of performance. It is therefore indispensable to equip the National Firefighters' Corps with functional methods and tools, such as human resources and operational means indispensable for emergencies. However, if I think about my land, Sardinia, the synergy in the early stages of an emergency is limited to the four provincial municipalities, so how can we talk about immediacy of performance? For example, on the occasion of the flood of October 2018 in the Province of Cagliari, the operational sections in flood arrangement from Lazio and Tuscany arrived at the emerging theatre thirty-six hours after the beginning of the events, when the first part of search and rescue had already ended: it is understood that it is not enough. It is therefore necessary to increase the number of men in readiness and, in case of necessity, to activate the aid guaranteed with the modernization of the fleet, which, moreover, must be confronted with a road that - believe me - is atavically obsolete. My thoughts also go to the last tragic events of forest fires that took place because of the strong mistral wind, which often dominates it in Sardinia, transforming thousands of hectares of land into ashes. I begin to conclude by saying that I trust in the attention of this Government, in the Ministry of the Interior, in the sensitivity of Minister Matteo Salvini, who I am sure will allow us to give a first response with a real and concrete strengthening and strengthening of this important segment of the Police Forces. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione I say: live the security decree- bis! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u64	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here discussing an extremely important measure, of which Forza Italia immediately wishes to highlight the positive aspects. It is a text that we would certainly have voted on, if it were not that, unfortunately, we would have requested a vote of confidence, which we cannot give to this Government. However, I wish to begin by remembering what our leader Anna Maria Bernini has done in the past hours, going to Lampedusa to visit the centers where rejections take place, in particular of the Guardia di Finanza and the Coast Guard, because we want to say once and for all that we are on the side of those who defend the borders, who defend Italy in uniform and not that of the captain smashed carola rackette, this must be a very clear and above all central point of the politics of Forza Italia. The assessment of this measure is therefore positive, because it contains a number of measures that we had announced in our centre-right electoral programme before the yellow-green agreement even intervened, so we have a sort of primacy, let us say so. Our attitude will therefore be in line with what we have maintained regarding the first security decree-law. From the benches of the left I have not heard a word about the number of immigrants that Italy could manage. What's this number? We'd like to know if it's one, two, three or ten million. Can you give us once and for all the number, also in relation to the economic conditions of Italy, of those whom we could in some way welcome, guaranteeing a serious, real and true welcome towards non-EU countries? This number never came out. We have also tabled amendments to improve this decree-law, because it can be improved, of course, but we understand that there are some problems in the majority. More could have been done, but the alliance with the Movimento 5 Stars prevented everything that could have been done, let's be clear. Of all the amendments that we have tabled, it would have sufficed for us to have passed only one, that is, the one relating to the billion necessary to the forces of order in order to really be able to undertake a battle not only for rejections, but also to bring security back to Italy. Some proposals from the colleagues of Forza Italia in the Chamber have passed, so we can say that this decree-law is a little 'ours too. Many other amendments have not passed and there is a critical aspect. We have another problem, which is that of NGOs. We're in the summer and the landings are increasing. I would like to remind you that in 2010 the record of containment of the landings was obtained by the Berlusconi Government, with a little more than 4,000 people landed that year: an extraordinary result that we should try to emulate, but not simply - it is good that it is so - with the closure of the ports, but also blocking those ghost landings that continue to ferry and bring thousands and thousands of illegals on our coasts. In this situation, we have found ourselves today to have 600,000 illegals, Italy that we do not know how to send back to their country. There is a lack of bilateral agreements and international agreements which allow this to happen. Above all, there is a lack of rules which effectively allow rejections to be carried out. Therefore, the closure of the ports, the confiscation of boats, the penalties against the shipowners of these ships are good. Many things could be done, but let's remember that at this particular moment Italy is under a very strong migratory pressure. While the borders have been substantially closed at our North border, the only ones that have opened them are us and it is the border not only of Italy, but of Europe. This border must be defended, because if we want to respect the legality, we must say that we enter Italy only if there are conditions, even from the legal point of view, in order to enter. So we're not gonna tell it. Still waiting to know what the number would be, we wonder if the conditions of Italy, as I said at the beginning, are really such as to allow new arrivals. We have a lot of doubts. In the decree-law in question there is the strengthening of undercover police operations, through which we can give new positive impetus to the investigation activities: this is also a positive aspect. The sensitive issue of interceptions also comes to new regulation: this is also a positive point. There are also rules that aim to speed up the execution of judgments: this is also a good thing. In addition, a whole series of new provisions are devoted to the ever-present theme of stadium violence. But the issue of illegal immigration is still topical and it is in this direction that I believe that the whole centre-right must look with great attention also in the future, trying above all to maintain that alliance that has allowed to realize an extraordinary program that could give those answers that the Italians expect. This is the way we have to go. (15.29) (AIMI follow-up). Let us look forward, then, to an organic immigration project. We also look at some laws, especially that of reunions, but we could continue. As I have said several times in this House, there is certainly a right to emigrate, but there is also a right not to emigrate. We would like immigration, as is the case in other countries, such as Germany, to be an immigration that is in tune with the principles and values of the Italian people. There must be harmony, as Cardinal Biffi said. Let's go this way. I am convinced that we will actually have the chance to bring order and security back to Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, migrants (...) come out only ten, twelve hours later. Without an arrest warrant, for no real reason, but to allow (...) to drive them back to Italy. The illegals who try to cross the border every day (...) are blocked by the police (...), loaded on "anonymous" trucks, dumped in the border offices by the gendarmerie, abandoned in premises of 15 square meters all night without food or assistance. We are not in the Libyan lagers, but in the civil France, taken as a model by parties that have made immigration a profitable business more than drug trafficking, which since 2015 has closed the frontiers with Italy with impunity, demonstrating a Europe that has treated Italy as a B-series country. There are those who can and can't. And France can. France is France: it had admitted President Juncker, former head of a rogue state that had made fiscal dumping Luxembourg's fortune, in spite of any treaty or solemn commitment, written on the sand by the European cleptocrat. In the last year 18,000 migrants were rejected in Ventimiglia: 44.433 in 2017, including 13,500 minors. The facts denounced by Médecins du Monde are stronger than the propaganda "Good Left," which flew over the obvious arbitrariness and illegality of France and the French gendarmerie on the violation of human rights, always evoked in Italy. For anyone who knows that border area between France and Italy - which I have been seeing for forty years - it is impossible not to realize what is happening in this Europe that - I repeat - treats Italy and the peripheral countries as B-series countries. They call it the passage of death, and it was used by smugglers to cross the border of Ponte San Luigi: it connects the Municipality of Grimaldi to that of Menton. A dirt track that forces you to climb barbed wires, walk on the edge of a cliff, travel highway tunnels with the risk of being overwhelmed by a truck. According to the French authorities themselves, more than 20 human beings lose their lives each year, taking the step of death. Following a complaint by a Eritrean child, the Nice tar ruled: France has infringed the 1990 Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires signatory States to put the best interests of the child on their territory in the first place. According to the latest report of the UN High Commissioner, repeated violations of children's rights take place in France: from shoe cutting to forced detention, accompanied by physical and verbal violence by the police, to searches, forcing migrants to denude. This is the result of this Europe's fake reception policy. When we talk about immigration, we cannot avoid reflecting on the fact that, whatever action is taken, we take it in this Europe that has imposed for too many years the Franco-German dictatorship on the peripheral countries such as Italy, with the permanent violation of the Treaties allowed by governments afflicted by Stockholm syndrome, who are accustomed to going to Europe with the hat in their hands. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella]] The Schengen Agreement prohibits internal border controls, yet has been violated by France, which has suspended it since 13 November 2015. It has been three years and nine months that immigrants who want to move freely from Italy to France are forced to take the step of death, with some of them breaking apart after a flight of 800-900 meters. The system of residence centers for return (CPR) is structurally linked to the exploitation of work: the alternative between work (of any kind, at any cost) and internment paves the way for the slavery of plantations in too many areas of Italy. It is a system that represents a millionaire business, with a huge margin of income, for cooperatives, mercies and various companies. Although almost two centuries have passed, the world seems to be the same. Marx wrote that workers are sometimes forced under threat to accept a wage equal to mere survival, giving the capitalist the surplus value produced. This is what happens when a society in no way regulates the reception of those who come from outside. That is why, Mr President, it is right and sacrosanct to be able to restrict or prohibit the entry, transit or resting of ships on board migrants in the territorial sea, order the immediate seizure of the vessel that violates these rules and the consequent confiscation, without waiting for a second violation, and to provide that the custody charges of the vessel subject to preventive seizure are charged to the owner and the owner of the ship entrusted to custody by the prefect. This measure not only seeks to curb the phenomenon of slavery in the third millennium, but also meets the public administrations dealing with immigration. Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution, Constitution - I remember - that we defended on December 4, 2016. A rule of law cannot allow unscrupulous adventurers to finance the new slave trade in order to impose that reserve industrial army described by Marx in the war between the poor, calling as racist and xenophobic all those who claim that we must welcome everyone, instead of refugees fleeing from wars, trying to offer them dignified conditions and reaffirming the principle that the highway is to invest in the countries of origin, instead of financing the reception centres, with billions of euros per year, and annexed lagers, often managed by corporals and ras of human exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give a fish to a man and feed him for a day. Teach him how to fish and feed him all his life, he recited a Chinese proverb. Democratic governments, even if opposed by international mafios-massonerie and dictatorial liberalism theorists, are fighting to prevail the rule of law and the primacy of politics over combos of businessmen and greedy unscrupulous speculators, like Soros. For these reasons, I shall vote in favour of the Security Decree-A. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u67	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single Article... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Bravo! FARAONE (PD). Shame on you! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. ... of Law No 1437, of conversion of Decree-Law No 53 of 14 June 2019 into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you! [[Ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups at the address of the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u69	I ask you to put an end to this general euphoria. The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 53 into the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Group Presidents is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 15.42 a.m. and resumed at 16.17 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u70	Mr President, we are once again discussing a matter of trust, which we would not have believed we had to do because we were sure that the parties to the government today would flee these solutions and that they would support and vote for the referendum on bicameralism. It was a beautiful referendum campaign that saw us all very united to support the validity of bicameralism. But that's not it. We are systematically faced with decrees, issues of trust and with bicameralism denied. In fact, a monocameralism has been implemented. Yet, bicameralism, as we had a way of supporting it, is an important moment because it creates citizenship participation and those who believe in the enlargement of participation and democracy must strongly support bicameralism so that, in the transition from one House to another, civil society enters into the debate and makes important appeals. In the transition from one House to another one has the opportunity to listen to those appeals and to reflect. We should do this and not come to this House when the games are already done. We should each other pay attention to the things we say, listen to ourselves, listen to the social parts that call as Free with Don Luigi Ciotti, who makes an appeal and also publishes it in the newspapers, like all the emails that have arrived that contain heartfelt appeals so that this provision is not approved, so that it is reflected on the articles that compose it. Yet there is an absolute silence on this, there is no reflection, because the games of politics are played elsewhere. It is right, then, to halve the number of Members and perhaps it would be right to delete this useless House. [[Applause from Senator Martelli),]] because at this point it would be worth what Berlusconi said and that also Luigi Di Maio repeated when he referred to the weighted vote of the political leader: with four or five people in a Chamber how much would be spared, since decisions are taken elsewhere? We do not even listen to each other when we speak, not even to answer each other; we do the general discussion and yet we do not listen, in the sense that we really deny what another said without even answering him and we probably do not even read the measures. In general discussion I have heard things about Decree-Law No 53 of 2019 that have nothing to do with it, I wonder then whether these readings in the course of the general discussions take place because someone from a communication office prepress them or because there has been an accurate article study by article of the measure, participation in the discussion in the Commission, listening to the hearings, reading the documents? I'm saying this because I'm surprised we talked about stopping illicit trafficking. I ask myself, and I ask you, where does this measure concern: where have we regulated stopping illicit trafficking? It has been said that ships that are not allowed to enter ports account for 7% of the immigration traffic, that the illegal one certainly happens by other ways, in the dark, in silence, out of the spotlight of political propaganda. I therefore wonder what we have stopped, where we have provided that only those who are entitled can enter, where we have regulated that there are channels to bring in those who are entitled. I have not read it, yet I have studied this provision as much as everyone else, because it is necessary: we have a responsibility! We have a responsibility, we cannot delegate to the Constitutional Court, to the TAR to stop measures that we do not like. We cannot do this because we are here with a responsibility and we must assume it. That is why we receive a delegation through the vote that the Italians give us; they give it to us because we assume responsibilities whenever we vote in favour, against or when we do not vote. We are not taking that responsibility and if we do not study the measure and return to the will of one, we are not doing our duty. Instead, we have read that the decree-law in question extends an abusive power of the Minister of the Interior, indeed a real sanatorium of actions already put in place, because we know well that there have been ministerial circulars (of 4 and 15 April and 15 May) that the Minister of the Interior had to heal, because they were abusive. Then I know that the Minister appeals to the President of the Council with regard to other issues such as the TAV, and yet we have already said - and we repeat - that in the decree-law under discussion it is stated that with regard to these issues the President of the Council, contrary to the provisions of Article 95 of the Constitution, will only be informed of the decisions that the Minister, together with other Ministers (but not all, because he is also forgotten that of foreign ministers), will take.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u71	Senator Nugnes, please come to your conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u72	NUGNES (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. So it's just a propaganda commercial that doesn't solve anything. We also know that, fortunately, all the Conventions and laws on the sea will prevail and have already prevailed. And to you you entrust yourself to this for your conscience: that others will make decisions in your place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. NUGNES (Mixed). We continue to make a theater of politics and not to face the real emergency: we do not realize, while we waste time on social media and with tweets, that we have a real climate emergency that creates a real migration problem, which must be addressed in dedicated forums. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u73	Senator, I'll have you finish your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u74	NUGNES (Mixed). We need to sit down at the deserted tables to find solutions with Europe to a problem that there is and that we are forgetting to deal with. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u76	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to this subject, but we do so in order to point out some of the concepts which are particularly dear to us at Forza Italia. In particular, I would like to point out that Italy alone cannot manage - on this I believe that the whole of this House agrees - to tackle the dramatic problem of immigration. This problem affects an exorbitant number of people: in Africa we have 1.25 billion inhabitants, of whom 650 million are in absolute poverty. It is not us who say that, but the World Bank, which points out that you are in absolute poverty when you survive with less than $2 a day. I repeat: 650 million. Do you imagine that Italy alone - because it is now alone - can cope with this enormous tragedy? We have responded in the past with a joint centre-right programme, but we have reiterated this by pointing out that a great Marshall plan for Africa is needed, just as it had happened since the end of the Second World War for Italy. We need investment and the European Community has the opportunity to do so. But we also have great absentees: where is the UN in all this? Where's the FAO? Where are the large international organizations that should intervene in the countries and especially in the population that needs to have a minimum survival level? We therefore create the conditions so that we can start again, because Italy, in this economic situation, is in no way capable of doing so. Recently we had another alarm (it's from a few hours ago). It was precisely the United Nations that said that by the end of the year Europe will probably face another attack by ISIS. Therefore, if we are in this situation, we must adopt the first important criterion of policy, which is precautionary and security. If we really want to make the interest of the Italian people, we must look very carefully at what could happen here too. It is true that the caliphate is giving the last blows of tail and that it is now defeated, but it is equally true that there would be about 10,000 foreign fighters ready to return, many of whom (at least 3,000) in Europe, and one hundred - we have been told by the Secret Services in their report - in Italy. An exorbitant number, if we think about the way these lone wolves act. We must, then, be aware of what we are doing in relation to the control of vessels in particular, the dinghies that are coming, of those which have not been shipwrecked - let us remember - but which have been deported, which is different because we are collateral to the interests of the boatmen. Italy, at this moment, is not able to welcome one more person; indeed, as we said before, we should rather begin to carry out rejections: 600,000 illegals. With this rhythm - forgive me - if the previous government with Minister Minniti had come to expel 18 every day, we are at the number of 13 every day; which means that we would take, rebus sic statibus, about one hundred and twenty years, a very long time that we know we do not have available, despite all the wishes that we can address to ourselves. So, we need to start with a plan of expulsions in an organic program. Imagine if other nations - I am thinking of Australia, the United States of America, Russia, or any other nation that claims to have its own sovereignty on the territory - can afford a policy like what we are doing in Italy. Well, then, the ports closed, but let's start with the policies of rejections, otherwise we will have achieved absolutely nothing. I would also like to remind you again - referring to what we have indicated, that some of my previous colleagues have pointed out to this House - that one cannot disobey an order from the police forces as Carola Rackete did. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We cannot be in a position to suffer an affront to such a fact: we are encamping ideological reasons, pretending to fulfil a duty, pretended states of necessity. This is the real situation in which we find ourselves today in Italy. We must, then, straighten our backs; we must have the courage to apply what was the program that we wrote together with the whole center-right united: a program that has the strength to bring order back to Italy and to restore security. That's all we want. If this is our proposal, we must also point out that it would be appropriate - it would be important and, above all, it would lead to security - to have an immigration that is in tune, from the point of view of value, with those that are the principles and traditions of our Italy. If, in fact, this happens on the other side of the border, such as, for example, in Germany, which selects its immigrants, we cannot accept all of them indiscriminately. I repeat again for the umpteenth time: what is the final number? How many immigrants can we afford to welcome? You want to tell us? Is it still 100,000, 1 million, 2 million, 5 million? You give us a number and then you tell us, when there will be yet another refugee or yet another deportee, what are we going to do in that situation? This is the answer that is missing and that the left has not given us. On the contrary, it is appropriate and necessary to have serious immigration policies, and to do so I believe that an important, popular force, like Forza Italia, can be the point of reference because we have no laces or laces, we have no balls to respect and to have to drag behind us. We are a force able to reject responsibly - let me say this - all those who have no right to arrive in Italy and to send back home all those who do not have the right to remain on Italian soil. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u77	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u78	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the Government, because it is very good at building clear rules. And he does it with some expertise: he takes a current news, trying to intercept some common sense and gives it a legal splash. It doesn't matter if the Constitutional Court passes the scrutiny: the important thing is to present it at a press conference, maybe near a beach, or throw it into the social media container. The rest, then, will be seen; meanwhile we have marked a point. However, when it comes to presenting concrete measures - as the Forces of Order know - it is rather more complicated. In fact, for two hundred days the members of the Forces of Order have been waiting for the signature of the new contract. That's where you have to give us answers, and not on other points. Manifest standards, then, do not work in the long run, because they run counter to international obligations, with higher standards. The Constitution is not an à la carte menu. Articles 10 and 117 clearly state that international conventions must be respected. UNCLOS, SOLAS and SAR are not insults in Hungarian, but international conventions that the Italian Government has signed and that we are obliged to respect. Within the measure under consideration there is an attempt, not even so subtle, indeed quite manifest, to prevent the implementation of those conventions, which ask a commander of a ship to take responsibility and commit him to save lives and not to leave people to die in the Mediterranean. Inside the measure there are rules that are at risk of unconstitutionality. We'll see about that later. But that's your attitude. You stop at that piece there. There are others of manifest standards. How to forget the whole reunion battle! You had spoken, with the usual politeness and also that fine and elegant eloquy typical of your Vice Premier, of the 500,000 to be sent back to Africa. Then, when you got to the government, you realized it's bloody complicated, because readmission agreements are hard to do and build. Bringing those people back to Africa is a little more complicated than you thought and said in the election campaign, and it is for assisted voluntary returns. You do not give up on the evidence and even try to include a new tool, a premium fund for return policies. Let's give some money to a government, which must automatically recover the people who arrived here after the journey of hope. But how do you think that governments can take them back, since it is much more convenient for them to receive remittances, since they are countries with an unprecedented demographic boom, and those people would create problems and tensions upon their return? By the way, you invest very little money (2 million, up to a maximum of 50 million), while the emergency would impose the need for much more resources. There is talk of billions at European level for the trust fund for Africa. You don't even know how much money is actually available. The Senate's own Reading Note notes that confirmations should be obtained as to whether the appropriations are available. So, it's the same Senate Offices that question the functionality or not of that premium fund. Then - let me tell you - there is nothing about bilateral readmission agreements, because it is tiring: there is the struggle of politics and in Africa you have to go. The ministers of previous governments went there a month yes and the other one as well, while those of now avoid going there. On the other hand, they make roboating press conferences and muscle performances in the Mediterranean that are useless. International relations are tiring: they must be built and the trust report needed if a readmission agreement is to be signed. The results, in the end, are zero. The forced returns made by the previous government are 8,000, while this year it is already a good result if we reach 7,000 and new agreements are not seen. The same script for the reform of the Dublin Regulation. When the Ministers of all European countries meet in Brussels to define new rules, there goes Undersecretary Molteni, who is present here, but not our Minister, the Minister of Papeete, because it is at the meetings of the League and this is unacceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If he really says "the Italians" first, it is in Brussels that he must go, because that is where the interests of the Italians are defended. The same fate applies to assisted voluntary returns, which is a fundamental tool for repatriation, which are used massively by other European countries. We do not do this and we do not invest, despite the European fund FAMI (Essile migration and integration fund), which feeds this type of instrument, makes 400 million available: 298 million are precisely for integration and return. We only put 12 million for assisted voluntary returns, or 750,000 less than in the past ban. Among other things, assisted voluntary returns decreased by 16%. These are the objective data: assisted voluntary returns are less expensive and more effective. Will the other European countries which use it as a fundamental tool be stupid? Then I give you some advice: resume the ban. You haven't even been able to ban all the money, because that 12 million is missing 5. Reopen the ban and let non-governmental organisations participate with simpler criteria. You have put complicated stakes and eligibility thresholds, so much so that with these criteria you have managed to put out also the IOM (International Organization of Migration), the main agency of the United Nations, which has made in Libya more than 40,000 voluntary returns assisted in the last three years. Congratulations, a real masterpiece. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The same goes for another issue that you could have dealt with within this insecurity decree. Today, an expulsion for administrative reasons that would like to participate in the assisted voluntary return programme cannot do so, because it has an expulsion sheet in its hand. Well, precisely to those who live in lawlessness, who would need a hope for the future in their own country and who should be removed from hiding, we prevent them from participating in the assisted voluntary repatriation programme. I invite you to reconsider this rule, because it is a concrete aspect. You talk a lot, you do press conferences, you play with people's urges and fears, but on these concrete aspects you don't give answers. There is almost a suspicion that you want to keep this deposit because you gain our electoral consent, otherwise it is not explained why you do not involve non-governmental organizations. In fact, criminalized and called sea taxis. I go around the African countries and I see the faces of those women and men who are the best part of our cooperation, and they do that work abroad and could also be an important part of return policies in the countries of origin; policies that make sense if we put them together with cooperation projects, which is a part of our foreign policy and means investing in those countries, in credibility and in cultural presence. You don't do any of this. Continue to address the issue as if it were just a security issue. If we do not give a future there, in those countries, we risk losing sight and we will never solve the problem. Perhaps in the short term you will gain some more consensus, but you will deliver to future generations a problem as big as a home. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u79	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u80	Mr President, the Security-Aid Decree-Law deals with a number of issues, all of which are absolutely urgent: from the strengthening of undercover police operations, the regulation of interceptions, the rapid execution of judgments, violence at the stadiums and measures to ensure the smooth running of demonstrations. Forza Italia has examined with the utmost attention all aspects of this decree, even if, as usual, it arrives to the Senate closed, armored and without possibility of intervention, where we - for example - had asked in an amendment the real strengthening of our Forces of order. We asked for a billion euros to be allocated for all those activities to strengthen those who need to protect us. However, we are thinking of one of the priorities, namely combating illegal immigration, which is being discussed a great deal in this House today. After the disastrous immigration policies, implemented from 2013 to 2018 by the governments of the left (Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri), who were unable to cope with this phenomenon, some progress has been made since the security decree. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the last Berlusconi Government had set up a strict control of the Sicily Canal and entered into serious bilateral agreements with the countries from which the migrants come. In particular, the one with Libya was very effective. Do you remember when President Berlusconi was dilated when he was trying to keep up diplomatic lines with that country? So much so that in 2010 in Italy the historical minimum of landings was reached: in a year only 4,406 landings. Then, with the traumatic end of the Berlusconi Government, the virtuous political one was blocked and the successive central-left governments suffered massive waves of migration, to the point to record, between 2013 and 2018, more than 600,000 landings. The change of course, therefore, has been evident since the policies of the centre-right were adopted. We first pointed out the problem of NGOs in the last parliamentary term and called for this phenomenon to be deepened with a cognitive survey, which took place precisely in the Senate with the work of the Schengen Committee. Well, on the basis of these measures and the new impetus in tackling migration policy, we have returned, as far as landings are concerned, close to the 2010 data. Certainly we will not be able to improve them, because we are already close to that figure of 4,000, but we think that something concrete has been done on the point. The evaluation of the new measure is in fact positive on the substance, because it contains many measures that we had announced in the complete electoral programme of center-right, continuously with the first decree-law in the matter of security. Some proposals for the initiative of colleagues from Forza Italia have also been approved in the House and, therefore, we can only hear a little 'our own text, although - I repeat - there is not that attention to the Forces of order that we would like. Obviously other proposals of Forza Italia could have made the intervention on security even more incisive; they were not accepted - alas - for the contradictions of a majority that shows every day, more and more, elements of deep division. The problems to be faced are re-presented in their entire emergency, like that of the landings of the NGOs: we see a period of resumption of the organized departures, precisely because, through the activity of the NGOs of the sea, there is, on the one hand, those who try to impose their migration policy to our country and, on the other, those who, exploiting new routes of the non-governmental organizations, direct to their ships the rubber boats of the trafficking of human beings. In the decree-law there is, then, the strengthening of the operations of undercover police, through which you can give new impulse to the activities of investigation. But here too we need targeted resources. There is also a new regulation on the sensitive issue of interceptions. There are rules that aim to speed up the execution of judgments. Moreover, there is a whole series of new provisions dedicated to the issue of violence in stadiums, which is always relevant, to the way in which it is limited, to ensure the smooth running of sporting events. The issue of illegal immigration - as I said - is still topical for two reasons: the first comes from the policies of previous governments and of past years, which would be a mistake to call goodies. Those uncontrolled and uncontrolled reception policies have demonstrated what other large countries have understood and have been implementing for several years: a fair selection of immigration is needed. In fact, the illegal immigrant, the immigrant who comes to Italy for criminals or for other reasons, hurts very much the immigrant who, instead, has the right to be welcomed and supported. The migratory phenomenon, therefore, must be regulated not only for the part of the incoming flows, but also and above all in the possibility of reception. It is appropriate to understand, once and for all, that they are not entitled to remain all the people who disembark from the coming boats, who have very high numbers, but also from the barchini, which represent one of the new forms of arrivals in Italy. In fact, it will not have escaped that, at the moment when a large ship stops, at that moment dozens and dozens of barchini leave, with 10, 12 immigrants on board, who disembark undisturbed from them. In order to stay in Italy, it is necessary, in fact, to meet the requirements of international and Italian legislation - the Constitution speaks clearly - on refugees; 82 out of 100 people who arrive in Italy have no title to remain. It is the data from the appropriate committees that examine asylum applications: there are very few refugees, few subsidiary protections to which we add humanitarian protection. The total of the three forms of permission to stay in Italy makes, precisely, 18 percent. And this data should be remembered when we see an NGO ship or a boat from our Navy arriving in Italy. This is one of the issues that should be better addressed and that we would like to see focused on a next measure. The issue of the effectiveness of returns, whether voluntary or forced, is also missing. Given that the time available to me is running out - I would have liked to say a lot - I would just add that the decree-law to our examination is appreciated precisely because it continues with a whole series of provisions in the direction of closing the gap of injustices that has occurred so far between migrant citizens and Italian citizens. However - as always and as I said - there is no real support for our Forces of Order and we, however, between security and Sea-Watch, will always be on the side of security and our Forces of Order. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u82	Mr President, I would like to make a brief note before I begin my speech: Africa is under the continuous attention of the Government. Our Deputy Minister Emanuela Del Re is always traveling far and wide in Africa, and the first speaker knows that. I would like to start with some technical notes and then give you my political opinion. Several problems on the decree-law at our examination seem to put Article 2 in the matter of conferring powers. Confusion is always possible when it comes to crimes. Given that there is a crime of aiding illegal immigration (as provided for and punished by Article 12 of the same law of 1998 which is intended to be amended) for the hypothesis of the prohibition contained in Article 1, and also that Article 2 refers to Law No 689 of 1981, the almost insurmountable problem would be that of the prefect's competence to apply the various administrative penalties provided for. Article 24, which recalls Law 689 in fact, would seem to confer this jurisdiction on the criminal court, including the administrative penalty. As for the whole story, it is clear that sanctions are being tightened in relation to the fight against both illegal immigration and the various crimes in the area of protest in the broadest sense. With regard to the latter point, however, it must be said that, while the penalties and criminal assumptions are generally increased and the scope of certain rules is extended (Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code in relation to the intrinsic gravity of criminal behaviour against public officials), there is also a point of saying that errors are being corrected (Article 6 provides, in fact, that the penalty can rightly be graduated in relation to the fact committed, so as to cause harm to people, from one to four years, or to things, from six months to two years). The decree-law, therefore, has been remodulated a lot. Finally, I highlight the general massive reinforcement, with respect to the original provision, in terms of resources both for the police forces and for the other Corps (such as the fire department), which of staff are still under the Ministry of the Interior. Ultimately several shadows, but also some significant light in this post Camera passage were there. Now let me explain why I changed my mind about the vote on the so-called security decree-law, which will certainly bring me a lot of criticism from those I represent in Piedmont and in Val di Susa. Never before, with a certain lump in my chest, do I subvene the words of Rino Formica that you know very well: "Politics is blood and shit", then articulated in the statement: "Politics is for men the hardest and most ruthless ground of confrontation. It is said that in this field the conqueror is right, and he knows how to broaden and consolidate consent, and that injustices are part of the great chapter of predictable and calculable risks. Well: I have done the calculations, which inevitably are also on people's skin, but, considering that we have managed to weaken it a lot and improve it in the Chamber of Deputies, it is ultimately not the antichrist of the decrees, but a manifestation of the strength of our contractor, the League, with which - I tell you the simple truth - we cannot afford to divide ourselves and we must be compact. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] CIRINNA' (PD). Bravo! AIROLA (M5S). Of course, a debate in this House and the acceptance of our amendments would have been helpful, but that was not the case. So, now, either I give strength to Movimento 5Stars, or tomorrow we may not have a Movement to the Government. We've got a lot to do. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] : First stop the TAV and who tells you that you can't mind, because the game is still open; achieve the minimum wage and a law on conflict of interest, which we will see who will vote... FARAONE (PD). Is it a sketch? AIROLA (M5S). ...the lowering of taxes for those who hire; the reform of justice. In short, these are finally measures that really change the lives of citizens. Although today I seem to give in to something that I do not fully agree with. [[Comments of Senators Bellanova, Cyrinna and Pharaoh]] tomorrow - to resume the concept dear to Rino Formica - I will be hard and ruthless and I will be right, because I plan to win. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations. Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u83	Senator Pharaoh, your voice is unmistakable. In the clamor of the Assembly, there is a background....
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u84	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration today, the so-called security-a decree, is an important step forward in the control of migratory flows and in the fight against the complicity of illegal immigration. I would like to remind my PD colleagues that, as long as the borders of national states exist, illegality is and will always remain a crime. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Di Marzio]] The sharp decline in landings, due to the action of this Government and in particular of the Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, now finds in the administrative sanction and confiscation of the boats two new instruments, that, together with the appropriations provided for the police operations under cover, improve our order, to break that chain centered on the trafficking of human beings, that I define - and I subscribe - with its real name, that is modern slavery, that starts from sub-Saharan Africa and passes from Libya, to arrive in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Di Marzio.]] (16.59) (IWOBI followed). It is a tunnel made up of false hopes, illusions, illegality and death, which we have a sacred duty to close, to combat organised crime. Each landing is a signal and an incentive to the hullers, to continue their activity of illegal trafficking. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Our country must respond rigorously and firmly, affirming respect for immigration laws, which exist to protect the borders of national states and to ensure concrete possibilities for integration, starting from work. Allowing migratory flows of economic migrants, by circumventing existing laws, is bad for Italian citizens and is bad especially for migrants themselves, because insecurity is created. Legitimate migration for economic reasons, on which illegality speculates, is unconscious. In previous years, the abuse of the reception system and asylum applications had become the rule of entry into our country. In so doing, previous governments have made the grave mistake of leaving open only channels managed by human traffickers, and not only. Today, at last, we have a government that is doing everything possible to achieve the first step necessary to solve the problems related to the control of migratory flows, that is, to stop illegality. Let us never forget that ours is a fight not against human beings, nor against immigration as such, but against trafficking in human beings, which still today brings thousands and thousands of young people to abandon their lands in order to surrender themselves to precariousness and lawlessness, running the risk of losing their lives for an illusory future. The safety-a decree does not sanction rescue at sea, and those who support it lie knowing to lie. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Immigration becomes a wealth for our country when it is regulated, controlled and encouraged in legality, but it becomes a problem when such control fails. The security- bis decree, with the introduction of very effective administrative tools, will be really important to protect our borders. Undercover operations will be strategic to permanently break the network of traffickers and offer the necessary and useful evidence to prosecutors to pursue all types of traffickers. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by hoping that a common road can also be drawn in the Community; a road which, on the one hand, contrasts illegality and protects borders and, on the other hand, can dialogue and cooperate with the world beyond the Mediterranean Sea, in order to counter the causes that drive young Africans to emigrate. The first of all is the lack of a fair distribution of resources, on which the West also has great responsibilities, and whose solution certainly cannot be a reception at all costs, which has made immigration a cause of poverty and precariousness, and not a wealth as it should be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I would like to ask you, my friends and colleagues, to reconsider: immigration must be controlled and it is the responsibility of politics to control it. And that is what we are doing with the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u87	Mr President, it really helped me to hear Mr Airola, who explained to us that the needs of Realpolitik are above all else. They are so high that they would also deserve the sacrifice of human principles, duties and rights. It is impressive what is sometimes measured and listened to in the investigative work that we do in the Commission, but this time also in this House. We are faced with a request for confidence in the security decree-law- bis which, in fact, deserves another name. This is a decree-law that wants to establish fear and it is all built on the right of force, rather than on the force of law. But how can it be imagined that the Mediterranean Sea, a sea that we have all known and probably also studied listening to the words of Predrag Matvejević - the great intellectual of the sea of proximity and the sea of union - now, because of this artificial right referred to in the decree-law under consideration, cease to be the sea of proximity, of getting together and of helping and even become the sea of violence, of the blood flowing, of the abandonment of humanity? Before, listening to several colleagues, I wondered what the human does differently than other living beings. The fact that you're walking up or talking? Absolutely not. The human is distinguished from the other living beings because he cultivates the culture of inheritance, not of things, but of values; and, among these values, one fundamental, which has the force of a traction, is that according to which, when there is danger, humanity tightens, welcomes and produces rescue. Here we are changing the main infrastructure of human sensitivity and civilization. That is why such a rule, which is deliberated in accordance with the procedures, does not create the right. Cossiga would tell us that it generates its opposite, the reverse. It does not generate the right, so there is then a sacral adherence to it which then generates obligatoryness and recognition, but its exact opposite, because it has illogicality and has no proportionality. Finally, the penal code, between Article 50 and Article 54, presents the criminals according to which, in the face of the danger concerning the safety, the suspension of the penal code itself is determined. What are we talking about here? We are giving rise to a stiffening of the sanctioning, pecuniary, administrative and juspenalistic process in order to win a whim, which must have the strength to hide what you have not done, what you cannot do and what you cannot do. We must give rise to a finding of international obligations, the strength of diplomacy, the lucidity of law, taking into account the prevalence of human rights in such cases. What do we do instead? We stick in a tubular, called decree-law on safety- bis, a kind of armamentary that should generate fear, fear. That is what we say that it is not possible to think of trust, but we must think of its exact opposite, of mistrust, if we want to be consistent with the previous words. I don't want to bother Bobbio when he taught us what the right norm is. The right rule does not come into force because there are the Carabinieri, but because there is an involvement of the recipients. And how can we imagine this in front of this sort of artificial owl product? Think about it; I believe in the fact that we are located in a geometry of listening. Think about it, put discernment on it, and vote against, to vote better later. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u88	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u89	Mr President, Government, I would like to start from some data, trying to escape the classic opposition that, when we are dealing with issues such as the one we are discussing, we are practically always practicing. I will only talk about immigration, although the decree-law also contains some interventions on the fire department and the police, which are useful, however marginal and certainly not decisive. I am going to talk about immigration from some data. First of all - I did not say so, but Vice-Premier Salvini said - we are no longer faced with dramatic data and the phenomenon of refugees has been drastically reduced. For the truth this had already begun with the previous Government; in any case, the data is confirmed. I would also like to point out a figure with regard to landings, which, in fact, by someone in the debate, whom I listened carefully, has been underlined and I want to take up again, by taking an example: during the days of the dramatic event of the Sea-Watch (40 immigrants), 419 immigrants have landed with the barchini - as we started to call them -. That is not what we are talking about: it is not a problem for the Minister of the Interior. The cameras didn't turn on. Let's talk about 419 migrants. If you look at the data, the percentage of refugees arriving with NGOs is between 6% and 7%, but let's move on. There is the story even more laughable than Diciotti and Gregoretti because, as we know - we all know, even if some pretend not to know and others do not - who gets on an Italian military ship is in national territory. However, we have gone so far as to ridicule the retention of immigrants on the military ship. I do not want to raise the issue of the indictment, the request of the judiciary, of Salvini and so on, but one point on which I believe that a large part of this House agrees is that Europe is not playing its part. I share the fact that France is doing absolutely wrong things, but when the government of our country does the things it does - for example on Diciotti and Gregoretti - what credibility can it have to pose the problem of problems, namely a new policy on European immigration that is able to tell all states (Italy, Spain, Malta) that those countries are a European border? From this point of view it would be to win a European policy. But if we do little Orbans, where do you think we can go? Nowhere. In short, what is the purpose of this decree-law as far as immigration is concerned? Basically, it serves to achieve two objectives. First, it serves to establish that it is the Vice-Premier and not the Premier who decides, in spite of Article 95 of the Constitution, that he must be informed with a phone call, and then, if he has a busy phone, maybe with a text message or a tweet. This perhaps serves and will serve to cover the serious and clearly illegitimate choices made in recent months: this decree is unconstitutional from this point of view. The second useful thing for immigration, the second objective is only one: hitting NGOs, but also - as we have heard - fishermen, in spite of all international treaties and the law on the sea. I am not convinced, and I also say this to my fellow Members who have pointed this out, that this decree-law is only propaganda. If it were propaganda, it would already be very serious. The measure, however, is much more serious, as far as I am concerned, because it legislates based on a political and ideological concept: the bet on insecurity and fear. Beyond the various political positions which may also be opposed to immigration, there is legislation on a problem which is actually represented in the opposite way - the opposite - with respect to the concept of reality. This is frankly a very serious fact. It's not just propaganda. You want a rehearsal? There is no immigration policy. We must certainly distinguish between refugees and economic immigration, between regular and irregular, but my question - which was also asked by Vice Prime Minister Di Maio a few weeks ago, but then stopped - is: of the 500,000 illegals written in the contract we say? What happened to him? It was less than the previous government. I use official data not to miss: from January to June there were 15.6 returns per day (the source is the Ministry of the Interior); with the previous government the returns were 17.8 per day. You've done less than the government you bomb with your propaganda. I then heard that we are paying them. Attention, as you know, these 500,000 carry out, for example, many care jobs. We have the Bossi-End law that you have to schedule arrivals; there is no law that says everyone arrives, you have to schedule arrivals. Have you programmed them? Have you made the flow programming by choosing countries, as the law says? No. [[Comments of Senator Iwobi]] You didn't do it, and you're in the government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You get mad at NGOs, it's easy; you have to say what you do with these 500,000. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Grasso]] Say it! If you are unable to send them home, admit that you have told the Italian people lies. Say it! If you have the courage and want to govern immigration, the first thing you have to do is change the Bossi-Fini law that builds the illegality also of the people who do the care work and who are illegal because the Bossi-Fini reduces them to illegality. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Grasso.]] Would you like to have a discussion on this point? I am to regulate good or bad, and this isn't a Sergio Leone movie, it's a very serious government problem. Would you like to have this discussion? [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Are you willing to govern this process and not ride the tiger? What worries me most is the story, the narration: you bet, people start pretending to check the ticket - to use euphemism - on trains, insulting those who go to work. Attention, because the quality of life of our citizens is protected by security, not by insecurity. This is your gravest responsibility [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u90	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in this House debating a matter of trust raised by the Government; I do not think that if I am not mistaken we are on the eighth (eight is the number of infinity, we hope not to go any further; perhaps the test of the nine will come in the next few days, let us see what will happen), because I believe that focusing on the question of trust for such an important decree-law is not fair. My colleagues (and now in a truly magisterial way Senator Errani) have already explained very well the text under discussion: it is the encore of the first security decree, that is, a measure that will not work, as we have already seen in the first one that is partly ignored; moreover, there are still questions about the constitutionality of the measure under discussion that are not clear (no one knows if there are, before Mr Parrini tried to highlight them again with our question for a preliminary ruling). So it's just an encore of something that doesn't work, which is once again a commercial. That is what the figures and the facts say, and I shall avoid going back on it, even if it is perhaps repetitious to and many in this House might serve. The numbers and facts say that with the security decree the feeling of fear grows (so it will probably increase with the security decree- bis): you are simply riding fear and this is not political, but propaganda. I and the Group to which I belong, however, do not even care much to stigmatize how much the security decree does not work and how much this umpteenth provision will not work, because we are different by conformation, by nature. Between us and you there is a diversity: in the past years we have tried to make politics on these issues and we have not succeeded to the end, but the difference between us and you is that for us people come first: for you maybe the Italians or a part of Italians, for us surely people come first; for us first of all comes salvation, dignity, for us simply first of all life comes banally. Instead, with the decree-law in question it is said that life is left even after, because first comes the reason for propaganda; the propaganda of the captain who is not there and from this is measured what pasta is made. What's the captain's pasta? It is only propaganda, not being in this Chamber even today to hear a debate on a decree-law on which he strongly wanted to raise the question of trust. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is your captain's pasta! Serious issues such as migration are not a phenomenon of this last year: they are now lasting and will not be exhausted with your decree-law, dear colleagues, even if you think so (Blessed are you, if you hope so, hope is the last to die, but someone also continues to use this phrase in a way that is not suitable for this House). As I said, migrations are serious phenomena and must be dealt with seriously, but the Italian Government is not doing so, because it is simply isolating itself and is not putting the issue to this Parliament in a constructive way, so that we can really resolve it with active policies on the management of flows and with true integrations. Why do you not make the mayors, whom you so appointed to this House, participate in this phenomenon, and also give them tools to manage effectively and truly integration into their countries, territories and cities? On the one hand, you close the borders, you want to close the ports and you want to close your eyes, ears, minds and hearts again with this decree-law; on the other hand, open and undo anything about arrogance, ignorance, brutality, wickedness and inhumanity. This is what you have done and are continuing to do. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u92	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government today, as always when it comes to security and combating illegal immigration, we have been there, we have been there and we will be there. What we regret is the fate of our 67 amendments, all aimed at improving this decree-law. I also believe that the Government should listen to Brothers of Italy when it comes to security. Instead, today you have made a different choice: you have put your trust. Yet we are not against it, but for it, because when it comes to security and combating illegal immigration, our history shows that we are there. You have put the vote of confidence, but it is clear that trust in Toninelli and Di Maio is a little difficult to give to us, also because we believe that the most important pact is what we did with the voters before these elections. We must say and we have already said, when the previous security decree-law was introduced, that many things were missing; that it was certainly a step forward but that it would not be enough. The situation today is proof of this: we are here to talk about a security decree-law- bis and we do not hide that we believe that we will soon also have to talk about a new security decree- ter. What we regret - because then the narration goes well outside this House, the headlines last one day, the communications on social media are important but then disappear - is that the facts remain: even on the first security decree-law, to date - not we say so but the Openpolis observatory - of the seventeen implementing decrees necessary for the first security decree no one has yet been issued. This means that today not even the first security decree-law is possible to implement. We are at the decree-law today under discussion. We recognise that little progress has been made in this measure, and that is why we reiterate the concept that we would have liked to have voted for it. Let's see for example the immediate confiscation of the ships (I believe that this is also our contribution), that in the previous decree-law was taken only after the second violation while today, with this decree-law, it is taken immediately. We see the destruction of the seized ships or their assignment to public administrations that request it; the increase of the penalty for the outrage to public officer (that from fifteen days of imprisonment in the minimum and six months in the maximum, it goes to six months in the minimum and three years in the maximum). I remember then the Daspo antibagarini, the competition for the qualifying team leader of the National Corps of Firefighters. All the right things that we absolutely approve of and believe we have contributed to. But we would have expected a little more courage from this League-led government today - and I am therefore addressing the friends of the League. For example, we continue to hear Matthew Salvini speaking on television and on the social of chemical castration, but also this remained in the pen: in the writing of this decree-law the chemical castration is not there. Perhaps it is good not to make propaganda, because when you are in the government things can be done; you must not say, you should do. The chemical castration, battle - at least so it seemed, in words - of the League, is not there. Ours, on the other hand, continues to be a battle, because we believe that it is absolutely right and that we should put it into practice. We are completely missing - and we are very sorry, given the latest events that have happened, such as the death of the policeman, who I believe is still in our hearts - the review of the torture crime, which, as it has been written, prevents our forces of order in the most absolute way from being able to operate. There is no measure that is particularly dear to us, the prevention of Islamic radicalism, such as control over the funding of the place of worship. Also in this decree-law security-a is absent. There is still no prediction of the sermon in Italian: still today we do not know what they preach in these places of worship; we also do not know where and how new places of worship are opened. Still, there is a complete lack of prediction - which today would be urgent - of the crime of Islamic fundamentalism. A great deal has already been said about repatriations: we also stress that what is envisaged in this decree-law is not enough. Above all, there is no return fund for the European Union, which would be urgent. Every day this Government is following one ship rather than another; it is rightly Europe that should take on the people who arrive in Italy and who, for slanderous policies of the left, have invaded our country in recent years, so much so that today all Italians pay the consequences. Well, including the European Return Fund in this decree-law would have been a very important measure. There are not many other interventions: there is no strengthening of the numbers of magistrates, who were to be assigned to the special sections; also of this no trace. Above all there is no use of the Army to regain territories; caliphates who escape our jurisdiction, pieces of the territory that no longer belong to Italy and the Italians, but that are totally in the hands of crime. But what disappoints us most is that there are no supervised centers. Very often in this House I have heard my fellow Members fill their mouths talking about Europe and the migration policies of Chancellor Merkel. We have seen what Chancellor Merkel has done in Germany: she has opened the so-called "centres" which are still in place. The centres are still in the very democratic Germany, since, of course, Mrs Merkel cannot be accused of being fascist, racist and xenophobic. Well, what did he do? He did the centers again, so whoever arrives in that country, in Germany, does not do what he wants as it happens in Italy. We don't have surveillance centers here, and we know who comes out, comes in, runs through our territory. These subjects - we are all aware that they are human beings like us - must have a roof over their heads, must eat, because they have the needs that all human beings have, and then what happens to them? We don't know where they are, but seeing what happens with crime in our nation, we know they steal and sometimes rape our women. Therefore, it is true that the Interior Minister Salvini has certainly taken a step far ahead of the previous Ministers of the Interior, but there has been a lack of courage to foresee the establishment of supervised centres, following the example, as I said, of the super-democratic Merkel. We were very disappointed because there is none of this, so we still do not know how we can hold back those who enter illegally in Italy without losing track of them. Another element is missing: the contrast to foreign mafias. We saw what was initially just a complaint by Brothers of Italy, the Nigerian Mafia; then, thank God, everyone began to acknowledge that Nigerian Mafia is a dangerous, perhaps the most dangerous one we have in our nation today. Again, in the decree-law security- bis nothing about it. I shall conclude, Mr President. We also lack the norm to immediately close the Roma camps and we lack what we cared about, namely the Safe Roads operation, with the use and the strengthening of the Army for the control of the territory. Mr President, when we talk about security and these issues, I urge the Government to listen to the Brothers of Italy and study the 67 amendments that we had tabled, not to be against the Government on these matters. We are patriots and when we talk about security and the contrast to illegal immigration Brothers of Italy was there, there is and there will be. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u94	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to address you in order to share with my fellow senators and, even more so, with the Italians some reflections on the question of trust placed on the bill of conversion of the so-called security decree, which we are examining. The decree-law in question responds to the need to counter the elusive practices of international law on public order and security. In fact, our country, thanks to previous governments, has been identified as a subject used almost as a single landing point for all the immigration coming from Africa. This choice has helped other European countries - France and Germany - but also to the whole world that refers to the Democratic Party and, thanks to the Government led by the PD, has had the opportunity to manage a billionaire business. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, as is known and as we have said so many times, the package is over. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The famous 35 euros a day are over, for which grabbing had generated a race. Mr President, I note that the PD benches are empty; perhaps the Group's senators have gone to put on some propaganda t-shirts. In any case, we acknowledge that the business system linked to illegal immigration wanted by previous central-left governments, in agreement with that Europe that we do not like, is hard, convinced, stubborn, almost stubborn in not understanding the history that goes on. But, even more, he does not want to accept the will of the Italian people, who, with the voice of the vote, explained well to all of us that the system PD, cooperatives, scafists, traffickers of human beings and dead in the Mediterranean must definitely end. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, colleagues in the PD probably have not understood this yet. To reiterate the mad anti-Italian political project there are parliamentarians - one is also absent at this time - who go on board boats or ships of non-governmental organizations perhaps to collect on the same signatures for the motion of distrust against Minister Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, on NGO ships, the Democratic Party will be full of signatures, but those ships, instead of spurring the boats of the Guard of Finance, would do better than others, such as fishing or any other activity, rather than being a reference tool for human traffickers. Those people need to be helped in their homes. In our home we must help the many poor and unemployed Italians who are in difficulty. This is not selfish reasoning, let alone racist: it is Italian reasoning. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The measure also contains important rules to ensure safety in public places and the smooth running of public events, including sporting events. We know that even on these issues the distance between us of the League and the others is abysmal. We are in favour of any kind of public demonstration (including the democratic meetings in the squares of Matteo Salvini), orderly and respectful of the rules, being able to carry out quietly, respecting the ideas of all (repeat: respecting the ideas of all). And this is what one who lives in that small country town where Sandro Pertini was born and buried. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unfortunately, the chronicles tell us that it is not so. But who are, what are the social centers, politically protected by a political side? Why do they want to deny so clearly the right to meet people in the squares? Why do they want to take away the freedom of speech from those who think differently? I would call them rather social centers, because they go against normal society and the society of decent people. We at the League are on the opposite side to those who use sponges and demolish everything in front of them. We are on the side of law enforcement working against crime and risking their lives every day. We're on the side of the police, the side of the carabinieri, the side of the finance guard. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] How do you go pampering a killer who stabbed a carabiniere a few hours earlier? Only the Democratic Party can make it that far! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD group]] They don't want to understand that, colleagues, Senators of the League. They don't want to understand it; patience. We go on like this, more and more determined and with the strength of the people. Thank you, Minister Salvini, thank you, Captain! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u96	Mr President, we have no faith in this Government. We have no confidence in Mr Salvini, who did not come to Parliament when we asked him to explain what had happened in Moscow and whether he knew Savoini or not, but he is not here today either on an important measure. I thank the Undersecretary Molteni and the other representatives of the Government who are present, but I believe that at least in this case, since on others it is not wanted to be with us, Minister Salvini should have been present (also in the other case, I think, but today maybe it could have been less difficult for him). We have many reasons for opposition and this decree-law for us is to be rejected completely. Those who were present in the first Commission heard a number of subjects, including the Forces of Order, but I would like to recall in particular what the UNHCR and the Community of Sant'Egidio have told us. The UNHCR reminds us, for example, that a piece of the propaganda that had been done, that there have been fewer deaths at sea, is not true, because if it is true in absolute terms, it is not true in percentage terms. Today there are fewer migrants at sea, but if first the percentage of the dead - and it's always a painful statistic to do - was equal to one every 200, now it's one every 50. So the dead at sea are there. The Community of Sant'Egidio tells us then how wrong it is to penalize those who save lives at sea and how much the provisions of this decree-law could be in contrast with international conventions and therefore with what one is called to do, that is, rescue at sea. We have heard in this House say - and also in many statements - that it is important to solve the problem of illegal immigration in a structural way (I have also heard it from my colleague Mr Iwobi of the League). I ask myself, if this really is the interest, why does this Government no longer care about Libya? At the beginning there was a sort of very hectic ministerial tourism. Almost all the ministers have gone to Libya, the Palermo Conference has taken place and there has also been a terrible effort to get both al-Sarraj and Haftar to arrive, but I do not think that the situation in Libya has improved. And look at the fact that the stabilisation of Libya, where unfortunately a low-intensity civil war is now taking place, is one of the key elements in controlling illegal flows. In the meantime, however, it was decided that a European naval mission such as Sophia could continue, but without ships. True, the Sophia mission has also saved migrants, but the main objective of this mission was the fight against the scafists, which was done: they were arrested, the ships of the scafists were seized. Not the NGO ships, but the boatmen's ships. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Now this mission is gone. If we wanted to tackle this problem in a structural way we would go to Europe, we would go to European meetings. Seeing an arm wrestle every time there's a ship with migrants, even when it's an Italian military ship, that stays still because it can't land them, until we find some European countries that welcome dozens of them, does it seem like a way to behave for a civilized country? But you can't land and then you decide to relocate? Or, even better, can't you decide first? Mr Salvini is not going to discuss this at meetings. I also think that we should not have voted by the League, but also by the 5 Star Movement, against the amendments to the Treaty of Dublin which have been proposed by the European Parliament if this problem were to be dealt with in a structural way. Similarly, if we continue to say that those entitled must be able to arrive, the humanitarian corridors would be encouraged; we had started them, some continued, but above all for the activity of the Community of Sant'Egidio, of the IEC, of some voluntary organizations, certainly not for a strong impulse from the Government. Also with regard to return agreements, to make returns, we must make agreements with countries where people must be returned; not even one has been signed and it is more than a year that there is this Government. Since the agreements have not been signed, what happens is that those in the electoral campaign, for propaganda, were 500,000 migrants to be returned, suddenly, magically, 90,000: a little 'easy to reduce in this way the numbers. If the problem of immigration were to be resolved in a structural and civil way, the SPRAR funding for activities which are not merely maintenance in a structure and food would not have been abolished. You see, when the Navy or the Coast Guard are at sea and they save people, these desperate men and women see uniforms and feel a feeling of gratitude to our country, which I think is right to sow. But when hundreds, thousands of men and women, who do not yet have the right to asylum, are held firm for days and months to do nothing, because nothing can do, waiting for their destiny to be decided, this does not help. Why not let them do activities? Although it has not yet been decided whether or not they have the right to asylum, are they not human beings? Isn't that something that improves the people that are temporarily entrusted to us? Call this decree-law security, but there is no more security; security is created by having structural policies. Of course, there is a clear desire to make it difficult for rescuers to take action at sea. As I have already said, the military ships must also stand still and cannot land. But in this case we started with a fine of 10,000 to 50,000 euros. As it seemed little, already in the House there has been a fine of 150,000 to one million euros. The Movimento 5 Stars also put the ninety cargo in it, saying that then the ships had to be requisitioned. But it is not just NGO ships. I don't know if you've ever talked to ship owners, who have found themselves, with their cargo ships, saving people, because that's how it works at sea. They are now wondering what happens, since these fines are at risk, the arrest and even the requisition of the ship; what must they do? Many will always respond with the law of the sea, saving people, but certainly the message is to make this more difficult. On the real part of security then there is nothing. As a Democratic Party we have filed a motion in which there is a design of what we think you should do. We thought, for example, that we need a lot of money for the outskirts, because security is also made up of integration policies, that is, what a mayor can do and what the Forces of Order can do. We have thought of a task force on predatory crimes because it is true that we count, in the decrease of crimes, especially if there are fewer murders but if someone is robbed in the house or if a necklace is ripped off in the street, it is something that feels strong, so we need to fight it. We have thought of strengthening the fight against organised crime, the real emergency of this country. Finally, we have proposed more resources for the Forces of Order. In this regard, I would like to address a number of colleagues from the League who, when a senator from my party said that it would be necessary to redo the contract, laughed as if we had not done so. Undersecretary Molteni knows this and can say it: when we were to the government we allocated three billion euros for the staff, for the release of salaries, for the reorganization of careers and for the renewal of the contract. In the decree-law at our examination we have a few tens of millions of euros for food stamps and for the renewal of the uniforms. It is very easy then to put on sweatshirts to say that you have at heart the problems of firemen, police, carabinieri and armed forces. Then, however, there should be resources flowing out of this heart and in the provision for our examination the promised resources are not there and the promises made are not kept. I hope the Italians remember that. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u97	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u98	Mr President, I will try to say everything quickly because there is not so much time but it is right to speak clearly to this House and, above all, to the Italians by virtue of such an important measure. Meanwhile we believe that the decree-law to our examination is not only useful for Italy but even indispensable because it is not a commercial decree but it implements concrete measures in favor of order and public security, allocating also many resources. Of course, we are accustomed to this, albeit legitimate, theater that comes every time from the benches of the Democratic Party, where we do nothing but pontificate and pontificate without telling us why, for example, in the years of their Government they have not modified the so-called Bossi-Fini law and today tell us to do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But we go forward because we have important objectives and the so-called security-a decree, as happened for the security decree, not only, rightly and correctly, it deals with the migratory phenomenon but it also deals with much more and it is right to communicate correctly to the Italians The Security Decree has dealt in an important way with the fight against the mafia and organised crime and the Security Decree- bis also deals - but no one from those benches has said so - with the so-called clan sweep. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No one has said that the decree-law on our examination provides for the assumption of 800 units to be jailed by criminals who, despite having been sentenced with a final and enforceable criminal sentence, enjoy their freedom on Italian soil. It is a measure that also deals, for example, with putting violent people under control in public sports events; it says enough to those who want to hide under helmets to destroy people or to destroy windows. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But it is also a measure that says enough to those who want to sell irregularly, for example, tickets to watch a game at the stadium. Someone from those benches used to brag about being different from us. We say - alive god - it's good that we are different from you: we discover the cards compared to these themes! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's tell her some things because we tell an Italy - and we want an Italy - that is not what you have made us find, that is, a disordered Italy, an Italy prey to local delinquents but also imported because you did not control those who set foot on our soil. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's tell her these holiday differences because we want an Italy that fights without conditions, without if and without but, against illegal immigration. On the other hand, there is an Italy, fortunately a minority, which speaks of an integration, and then does not see, saying that it is an invention of Minister Salvini, a bubbon which is - precisely - the Nigerian mafia. We want an Italy that in Europe and in the international context is with its back straight and with dignity, not that Italy that you have given us on the basis of which you have asked for more flexibility for more immigration. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We want an Italy where we say and do, with fewer departures and less dead at sea, not Italy with more departures for everyone, provided that they live the red cooperatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We want an Italy that sees proud and proud parliamentarians when they travel around the outskirts of our cities and do not make tourists on the Sea-Watch or on NGO ships [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, we want an Italy that is at the side of the spurred financiers and not at the side of Rackete, Casarini and De Magistris. We want a proud Italy in fact, as is done with the decree-law under consideration, proud of its uniforms and its Forces of order and we never want to see Scalfarotto's Italy again [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We want Italy, which cares about the security and integrity of the nation and not the Italy of Gozi, so one government is worth the other, so much between Italy and France little changes. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] We want to be the first Italy! [[Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I have concluded. FARAONE (PD). Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll watch the weather. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). The latest tragicomic scenery, which could not fail to come from the Democratic Party, is that of collecting signatures to request the resignation of Minister Salvini. MIRABELLI (PD). You're in Parliament! PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). A dispassionate advice: desist, so that you risk going to meet yet another silly figure! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u99	Conclude, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u100	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have only one word for Minister Salvini: thank you, thank you, thank you Minister! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). You're in Parliament, not Papeete! PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Go ahead for that Italy, for the first Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group]] . FARAONE (PD). Thank you, thank you, thank you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator! He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Molteni, I am addressing you because I appreciate your intelligence and preparation, and I believe that you are also the author of the part of Article 1 of the Decree-Law under consideration, which says: In compliance with Italy's international obligations, it may restrict or prohibit the entry, transit or rest of vessels into the territorial sea. I know how careful you are and I also know that whatever I say, it will not be possible to change the text, because the question of trust has been raised. I will therefore make a speech, precisely because of his intelligence, in the hope that we can finally make an immigration policy. Mr Undersecretary, you will recall when at the beginning of the 16th parliamentary term we examined a security decree-law, accompanied by a security bill, which gave the opportunity to collect a number of indications. Instead, in the decree-law in question there is first of all the need to take into account certain attitudes on the part of non-governmental organizations who wanted to mock our country and our laws. So it was right to intervene, but are we sure that all the rules laid down are in accordance with international rules? We had given a willingness, with our little competence, already used in other measures, because some aspects had to be corrected. On the second part of the measure, on which Senator Errani correctly said that these are small things for the military and for the Forces of Order, you did not want to take into consideration the proposal of Senator Gasparri, made on behalf of the whole Group, who proposed a series of indications. Choose one - only one - in order to achieve it, in the interest of the Forces of Order, which, as we all know, are engaged in our country for immigration, against terrorism and for everything else. And yet you said no. Therefore, we must not be able to vote on the measure. At the same time, however, we have a moral obligation to suggest what to do. You know better than I that immigration is not combated as it is today. You will remember that in 2010 we were able, together, to reduce immigration to 4,000 people. I understand that times have changed, but a choice must be made. The choice is, first of all, to introduce a legal entry into our country. The Bossi-Fini, which needs to be amended, contains only one correct measure: the introduction of the quota criterion for regions. The criterion that we should, not only apply in our country, but demand applies within Europe. The second aspect is to guarantee refugees the right of asylum and access to our country. The third aspect is no to economic migrants, who are outside those quotas that I referred to, because we do not have the opportunity to accept them. If we agreed on this, you could obviously not tell me, when it comes to the Diciotti or the Sea-Watch, which pays the Church. The problem is not 36 euros. The problem is that the economic migrant, the illegal in our country, affects the labour force of Italians and affects the security of our country. My question is whether it is difficult to draw up a bill on this matter, because we have the security decree, and the security decree- bis, because problems have arisen concerning non-governmental organizations; another problem may arise and then the security decree- ter comes. No, we do, instead, a comprehensive bill of security, which cannot fail to take into account certain aspects. You believe that everything is resolved through these few articles, but you know very well that there are some international rules that do not correspond to these rules. Therefore, we should support international processes, relationships or integrations, having to find the bandolo of the skein with intelligence to understand what the limits are. What should we do? At the time we had managed to introduce not only the systems of control of reception centres in countries such as Tunisia, Libya and Egypt, but we had also implemented an investment policy in Central Africa to avoid migratory flows. It would be illusory and ridiculous, otherwise, to think that this flow can be interrupted by the worry of a month or a year in prison. That flow needs to find an answer on the spot from the free world, the economic world, those who have the most. And who has the most must be a government of ours, which has the authority in Europe to be able to shout out what needs to be done. You will remember that we, at the time, invested in Eritrea and also in Nigeria, where we spent ten billion to prevent these migrants from arriving. Today, instead, should we settle for warm cloths? Let us start from the fact that I share the need to introduce the strictest rules for non-governmental organisations, because we were making ourselves a bad country in this regard. But for the rest, what do we want to do? Senator Errani remembered the 500,000 illegals. That's what you said. I never knew if it was 500,000 rather than 90,000 or 200,000. I certainly know that those who have come down from the Diciotti are illegal. We'll check two. Can we go on like this? Can we go on like this, knowing that there are many people arriving on our shores with small boats that do not belong to non-governmental organizations? We must regulate everything, because otherwise we will continue to make decree-laws and then we will have no result. But in order to do this, we need an overall agreement from this House and this Parliament, which is aware of the seriousness of the situation and what the answers can be. If, however, we continue to do as happened last ('Grande Salvini! Attack on the others! We call Scalfarotto who goes to prisons!), this does not interest us; that is not the problem. If this government is going to move forward and if it passes this week, I hope that, immediately after the summer holidays, we will sit around a table not only Forza Italia, but the whole Parliament, to find the opportunity to dialogue. Is it possible that something like this has not been discussed in the Commission, because it was necessary to get to this House? But this - you know better than I do - takes place in this parliamentary term by any measure. We need to rediscover the ability to confront ourselves, which is the basis of the formation of laws, the way in which opposing interests and opposing world views come together and manage to coagulate in a standard that has effectiveness. Is that possible? For us, yes; for you too, I believe so, within you. You should start giving lectures on how to be in Parliament in all groups, starting with your majority groups. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u102	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u103	Colleagues, I have heard some of you describe the decree security- bis, which we are about to convert, as an immoral and illiberal measure, even before unconstitutional, because it would sanction those who save people at sea and limit the freedom to express their dissent in public. If that were the case, none of the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars would hesitate a second to vote against this measure, confidence or lack of confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] However, that is not the case. The measure in question does not sanction anyone who saves the shipwrecked; it provides, instead, in Article 1, that the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Minister of Defence and that of the infrastructures and the transports, can limit or prohibit to non-military ships the entry into the territorial sea, as well as the docking in our ports, for reasons of order and public security or in case of violation of the laws on immigration, in compliance with the Convention of the United Nations on the Law of the Sea. This article is intended to specify that the said prohibition must intervene in compliance with the international obligations assumed by Italy, including the conventions that guarantee the sacred duty to help life at sea. In other words, the Italian State's duty to assist shipwreckers and to assist shipwreckers remains unchanged, but this does not automatically mean that these ships will be able to land in our ports. This also appears to be in line with what the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the two Sea-Watch cases 3. You know that the Court has said that it is the obligation of the State to ensure safety on board the ship, but it is not a right of the ship to land and therefore you can also refuse to dock. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This rule, moreover, seems useful to put an end to the practice according to which all the ships that operate rescues in the Mediterranean, whatever the reference SAR zone, are considered automatically authorized to disembark the shipwrecks always and only in Italy. I remember in fact that Annex 3 to the operational plan of the operation Triton, operating from 2004 until February 2018 and ratified by the previous Italian Government, previewed that the ships of the European Countries that patrolled the Mediterranean brought the migrants rescued always and only in Italy. The former Foreign Minister of the Letta Government, Senator Emma Bonino, commented with these words: We were the ones who asked for all the landings to take place in Italy, even in breach of the Dublin Treaty. In 2014-2016 (during the Renzi Government) that the coordinator was in Rome, the Coast Guard and that the landings took place all in Italy, we asked, the agreement we did (...). At first we did not realize that it was a structural problem and not just one summer. And we hurt ourselves. We kind of tied our feet a little bit, and frankly, we underestimated the situation. Undoing this deal is now quite complicated. These are the words of former Minister Bonino to the director of the "Day of Brescia" on 3 July 2017. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure in question, therefore, does not at all alter the relationship of our State with the legal and moral obligations to rescue people at sea and to guarantee safety to boats operating rescues at sea, but fills the uncertainty present in our legal system about the possibility and the modalities of the prohibition of landing on Italian territory, if this is contrary to the order and public safety or in violation of the immigration laws in accordance with Article 19 of the Montego Bay Convention. In case of violation of the said prohibition, Article 2 of the security-a decree provides for the commissioning to the commander and the owner of the administrative penalty from 150,000 to 1,000,000 euros, as well as the confiscation of the ship, which can be assigned in custody to the police, the office, the navy or other administrations for the employment in institutional activities. As regards the rules on demonstrations, I note the following. Article 6 tightens the penalties for those who, during public demonstrations, put in real danger the safety of people by throwing rockets, firecrackers or the like or by using sticks or other blunting bodies. It is not enough to launch a smoke bomb or a firecracker; it is necessary to put people's safety at risk in practice. Moreover, such conduct is the same already punished when carried out at sporting events and necessarily distinguishes between danger for the integrity of things or persons: in the first case the penalty goes from six months to two years, in the second from one to four years. This rule, in my opinion, does not in any way restrict the freedom of those who wish to manifest peacefully, even loudly, provided that it does not endanger the safety of other people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, I have more doubts about Article 7 in those parts where it extends the aggravating factors provided for in Article 339 of the Criminal Code (violence or threat, resistance to a public official or a political body) also to cases where such offences are committed in the context of demonstrations and introduces the need for the interruption of an office or public service or of public necessity, if such behaviour takes place during demonstrations. These crimes were already planned and punished. It is only because they are committed in the context of a demonstration that seems inappropriate to me, risking to punish with excessive rigour even demonstrators who do not act violently: think of the case of a procession that, by deviating from the authorized path, hinders traffic. For this reason, Minister Fraccaro, it would have been appropriate not to intervene in this matter with a decree of urgency, also affluencing the confidence, both to the House and to the Senate. In this area it would have been preferable to be able to debate in Parliament; this would have made it possible to better calibrate the rules, and to balance the right of demonstration more fairly with the security requirements. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why I hope - indeed, we hope - that in the coming weeks we will come back to reflect on these aspects, which have also been duly pointed out by certain sectors of the opposition, together with a summary of the best sensibilities of this Parliament. It is in the light of these observations that I confirm my trust in the Government and the President of the Council, who will certainly be able to grasp all the demands of justice, security, solidarity and democracy that go up from the Country and from the Movimento 5 Star Group to the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u104	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u107	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our Group there are different sensitivities about the measure, and for this reason some, like myself, will vote against it, while others will abstain. We all agree on the limits, in terms of effectiveness, of this measure and on the concerns about the procedure followed. As has been pointed out by several parties, the use of the decree-law requires an extraordinary case of necessity and urgency and must concern a specific subject, with a homogeneous text. But the measure in question addresses so many issues, from immigration to security in the stadiums, that it is difficult to trace both the coherence of the text and the urgency; it is no coincidence that it puts hand to a plurality of regulatory plans, from the penal code, to the legislation on immigration, to the code of navigation, to that of order and security. It is from the beginning of the legislature that we are called almost exclusively to convert the decrees-laws of the Government; and it is useless for you to stress that all this is detrimental to the prerogatives of a Parliament to which the legislative function is entrusted. The truth is that, again this time, the possibility has been lost for a broader reflection on immigration laws, with greater involvement of the social forces and of course of Parliament. The reflection had to start from some presuppositions: that there is no emergency; that the initiative of the Government on the topic of return and bilateral agreements with the countries of origin; that the first security decree, with the closure of the SPRAR, has abolished the only instrument for policies of inclusion and control, that cannot be entrusted only to the Forces of the order; that the theme invests a supranational dimension, with the necessary reform of the Dublin Agreement. The climate change and desertification of Africa call for Europe and the countries facing the Mediterranean, first and foremost, to a different reading of the phenomenon. In the coming years, only an international initiative will be able to manage the issue without creating social alarmism: it is necessary to manage asylum applications and irregularly received people at European level, but also to build inclusion policies for all those who are already here or who, in the coming years, will be able to meet the requirements to stay there. In Italy there are hundreds of thousands of foreigners who, every day, assist our elderly people, work in our restaurants, clean our homes and our hotels. It is not by chance that I quote these works, which are the ones where the most nourished is the foreign presence. Without social policies, these people will remain on the margins of our communities, ghettized in those of origin and, therefore, far from the culture, the rules, the laws of Western countries. There is, therefore, a need for a different policy from that which feeds and feeds on emotional waves, a policy that looks lucidly to tomorrow, but unfortunately Italy at international tables does not want to sit down. She did not sit at that of the last few days when fifteen European countries, perhaps for the first time, recognized that all the weight cannot weigh on the countries of first port and she did not sit at that on the Global compact, which is a start to build a global response. The other very important aspect is that the measure is not able to handle even a marginal problem - because this is the case - such as the one of landings which, as the data of the Ministry of the Interior say, have decreased by 84 percent. Legislative power shall be exercised in accordance with the constraints arising from international obligations, which require the master of a ship to assist anyone in distress. In particular, the Hamburg Convention says that the commander is required to make his way to the first safe port. And, then, it is worth remembering the words of Minister Moavero Milanesi: Libya cannot be considered a safe port, and as such it is treated by the various ships carrying out rescues. The concept of safe and safe port is linked to international conventions that have not all been signed by Libya at the moment, just as Tunisia is not considered a safe port, where the protection procedures are left to non-governmental bodies, without consolidated guarantees of legal protection and appeal for asylum seekers. It is, in short, a binding legal framework that renders any attempt to change the principles of the sea ineffective and that ensures that protective measures cannot be applied for those who have saved human lives. It is then clear that this does not solve an issue which, as I said before, is secondary to the overall issue of immigration. It takes more than that, but what is certainly not needed is a policy that is based on cynicism and resentment. We are not convinced, Mr President, by a country that leaves a few dozen desperate people at sea for days, many of which are wounded for the suffering suffered in the Libyan lagers; we are not convinced by a country where solidarity is foreshadowed as a negative value, an act against the nature of things: in civilized countries it is sanctioned by those who offend people's lives, not by those who help. We are not convinced, moreover, by a policy that builds very useful measures from the point of view of the media tale, but out of focus and unservable in relation to the problem: it is time lost, for the government and Parliament, that could be used to do something else. The latest data on the economy tells us that Italy has stagnated, that the productive North is suffering, that the number of people who have stopped looking for a job has increased, that the number of young people who leave Italy is unstoppable, that they do not have children because they lack the certainties and the tools to reconcile life and work. Italy needs such interventions and an immigration policy that looks to the future. I believe that all these points will soon come to the comb and I fear that, as always, the citizens and the citizens will pay the bill. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u110	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of LEU and most of the members of the Mixed Group who have already spoken in general debate will vote firmly against the confidence of this Government and against the conversion of the decree-law in question: our opinion is negative, very negative, we reject the measure in its entirety, for the parties that are there and for those who are not there. Mr President, Decree-Law No 53 of 2019 attempts to do certain operations, including propaganda, as some have said, but I will come back to that later. In fact, the most important part is the message that you want to send once again to the country, indicating immigration as the fundamental issue and almost the cause of all the problems of the country itself. It is, therefore, a political-cultural message that digs deep and continues to fuel a cynical campaign of incitement to hatred. The other operation, which someone called propagandistic, actually goes a lot in concrete, because it leaves deep wounds in our system. Articles 1 and 2 are the heart of the provision. On the one hand, Article 1, as I said in the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, seeks to remedy a situation which, in fact, the Minister of the Interior had created by taking on himself coordination, as an authority for public order and security, and above all, in fact, once again putting aside what our Constitution puts before the President of the Council. If someone still does not understand this, the Vice-President of the Council is the real President of the Council, he decides, orients, does and at most can inform the President of the Council of the decisions he takes. The most serious thing is that Article 2 - contrary to what some of the 5 Stars have said to us, namely that there is nothing serious but indeed everything is absolutely perfect - provides for a huge administrative penalty, and it is said that the authority, for reasons of order and public security, can prevent access and transit to rescue ships. That's what they say, but based on what? Who decides what is the danger to our country? Is it the shipwrecks saved at sea? In reality, one means is one: not only does one want to criminalize and continue the campaign of hatred and mystification against NGOs, but it means that in Italy, which is the country of the Republican Constitution, articles 1, 3, 10 and 11, to help and obey the law of the sea is a crime [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] These actions are therefore criminalised, even disproportionately compared to the administrative penalty. We get to the confiscation and we get to the point - a paradox - that this action is even carried out against a military ship of the Coast Guard, because evidently they too have been guilty of this serious crime. It is therefore an operation that is not only propaganda, because it leaves indelible stains in our order. This is very, very serious, in contempt of all international conventions, Article 33 of the Geneva Convention prohibiting refusal, the Charter of Human Rights, as President Grasso rightly said earlier. We do the task of turning tweets into rules, but this in our democratic system is an irreparable wound and also - let me say this - an infamy. Not to mention all the other rules concerning so-called public order. The crimes are always serious, but in this case there is an excess of punishment regarding the crimes committed, even minimal, during the demonstrations. What does this mean, if not the intention, even in this case, to criminalize dissent and prepare for something else? That is the point: perhaps to prepare for an even worse security decree- ter. The most serious thing is that we feed within our country the idea - I repeat - that all issues are linked to immigration, which is therefore criminalised. I'm gonna ask another question. Perhaps you do not really want to govern the phenomenon of immigration, because it would mean that you would have to cancel your deposit of votes and consents. Anyone - and I say this to everyone, even in connection with the last parliamentary term - really wants to put a serious hand, with concrete instruments, to measures to govern the phenomenon of immigration, must consider that it is not a passing phenomenon; it is not. Even if all the crises of war were to end and even if Libya were to stabilize, we would still have environmental refugees: all the glaciers in Greenland are melting; in Africa we have increasingly serious desertification problems. Do you think that we can ignore these phenomena and that we must not equip ourselves? Mr President, I have asked many times: how do you enter this country? What's the legal route? We are talking about illegals, but what is the legal way into this country? The 5 Star Movement presented, on the occasion of the so-called Minnites decrees, an agenda to review the Single Text of Immigration, but now they have completely forgotten it. A serious government, which really wants to be respected in Europe, not only presents itself at the tables, not only pursues to the full the objective of changing the Dublin regulation, but finally puts hand to what is a criminal law for us, such as the Bossi-Fini, which has only produced illegality and illegality. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] But you, like others, obviously do not want to do this because it is too convenient. Humanitarian channels, of course, are a fundamental way; that is the main way to really govern and to put a serious government's hand on this issue. And, however, if this were done, propaganda would no longer have a chance to exist because it would actually create a legal channel to enter; indeed there could be a serious possibility of integrating and ensuring that in this country we can no longer talk about illegals. As I come to the conclusion, I am concerned about what the current Executive will leave of these months, these years of campaign of hatred, of cynicism, which has seen the worst feelings customsed. This is the most serious thing, to see them crystallized in our code, in the measures that we approve, in our legislation, which conflicts heavily and openly with our Constitution. I wonder who will have to defend us from the arbitrariness; who will still defend us from the arbitrariness of majorities in order to truly protect and guarantee our Constitution. I want to conclude my speech by quoting Book 1 of the "Eneide" when Ilioneo addresses Didone and says to her: What kind of men is this or what barbaric homeland allows these uses? He denies us welcome to the shore, comes to attack us, and drives us out at the extreme edge of the beach. If you despise mankind and mortal weapons, fear at least the gods, mindful of righteousness and iniquity. Dido, Queen of Carthage, was convinced. I hope that the Italian citizens, rejecting your campaigns and your measures to the sender, will be able to do as Didone did. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u113	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, we are here to discuss a security decree-law- bis, but I accept bets: from here to not long time we will make a security decree-law- ter because this measure, less than the first but as the first, is the result of a downward compromise between the League and the 5 Star Movement. It is the concrete image of the damage that makes an alliance with the 5 stars. The first time you did not take into account the amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy and - miracle! - in the security measure- bis, some of those amendments, such as the increase in penalties for the offence of outrage and many small measures, have appeared. When there will be a sovereign government and certainly cohesive, we will make a decree-security -ter and finally, maybe, we will arrive at the naval blockade, which is missing in this provision, as many other interventions are missing. I am thinking of the most striking absence - and I say this to my colleague who spoke before me - that it is not clear that the law of the sea, as provided for in the 1982 UN Convention signed at Montego Bay, is envisaged and, of course, we want to respect it; I believe that Italy must respect it until the last comma, but it is provided for in cases where we occasionally encounter people in difficulties in the sea who have the right to be saved as we have the duty to save them. It should - and could also be done in this decree-law - give an authentic interpretation of Italy's commitment to that Convention, i.e. a commitment to respect it always when it corresponds to what we wanted to do, not when there is a taxi-like agreement between human traffickers and NGOs; not when there is a systematic landing of NGO ships to enter Italy clandestinely. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is what is not bearable. Therefore, I refer to those who have spoken of the right of civilization, because the real civilization lies in the defense of their identity, of their own borders and of their own laws and not in visiting on the ships of others those who have tried to spur Italian military. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is what you mean by civilization! 18.36 (Russa followed). However, although we are a decree-bis, waiting to do tris, we do not feel in a position to fail it, indeed. In fact, also thanks to the amendments we tabled to the first, there are improvements and I am not here to list them. I could list what is missing and say that the crime of torture has not been changed. The military - I also think of those who have lost their lives - probably feel unarmed in the face of laws like those and end up paying with life. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] There has been no change in the return regime and we continue to call for it to be linked to international cooperation and for Europe to provide it. Countries that do not want the return of their fellow citizens should not enjoy the benefits of European cooperation and, however, Italy should be hostile to them, whatever it costs. One cannot just take without ever giving, it is right that there should be reciprocity. Just as there is - alas - a provision that extends Roads Secure. I'm sorry to talk about this, but it's an old ball of mine because I introduced it under the Berlusconi government. The measure does not provide for the use of the army and the mixed use of police forces and armed forces in the cities and against Nigerian or Italian mafias. There's a lot missing. Chemical castration has disappeared and nothing is said about abusive Roma camps. However, we find a further improvement, especially in the tightening of the legislation against ships of non-governmental organizations that defy Italian legality as if nothing were and in several small adjustments. Therefore, we cannot reject this measure. At the same time, however, we do not feel in any way obliged - indeed - to trust this Government. We are therefore in a cul-de-sac, in a wine press: on the one hand, we do not want to be those who reject a decree-law that is a slight improvement; on the other hand, we want to continue to say clearly that Italy, as seven out of ten Italians say by now, does not want a Government the result of a contract between Movimento 5 Stars and League, because governments do not do with contracts. Governments do things with compatible political thesis and a program agreement, knowing that even what is the worst of the measures that a majority political force accepts, is never below what that political force considers to be the sufficiency. It is not imaginable a government in which one measure has vote 2 for one political force and 8 for the other, and vice versa. It is not a way of governing and the consequences are obvious and we see them every day, in the daily difficulty of focusing the political debate on what Italy needs. Every day the theme is: Does Maio agree with Matteo Salvini? What does Matteo Salvini say about Di Maio? What does that third person who should be the President of the Council do to agree on both? The President of the Council, from the one who directs and should direct the political line of the Government, has become the mediator between the two political forces, more unique case than rare in the history of Italian politics. An excellent mediator, he could be a mediator, not the President-in-Office of the Council. We are absolutely convinced that the time has come - we say it to the friends of the League, we say it without grudge to the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars - that everyone really does an examination of conscience. True, dear friends of the 5 Stars, it is difficult to get away from the roles of government (I don't mean from the armchairs, because it would be trivial) it is difficult to tell your voters "we didn't make it." I understand that, but if you have a dignity, if you realize - and I imagine you can do so - that by doing so not only damage your path (if you have one), but above all Italy, I believe it is time to interrupt this Government. This last act could be an important moment in which to tell the Italians that something has been done, but the most remains to be done. We will not give you our trust (we cannot give it to this Government), we will not give our vote against this measure, because inside it also has small improvement measures that we have indicated, but we say to you with all the courtesy and affection possible: stop, because Italy is on the edge of the abyss and I believe that everyone must assume all the responsibilities that compete to its role. Today I saw that the central topic is "Brothers of Italy," understood not as a party, but as an anthem, sung on a beach: very important. I saw the newspaper "La Repubblica," on the front page, scandalize. Whatever happens in this field, in which one of the two participants in the Government is involved, becomes a scandal. Well, I've never seen the left arm in favor of the national anthem. I have seen her sing on all occasions "Beautiful hello," indeed: the hymn of revolution, the hymn of resistance, the hymn of anti-fascism and victory. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Mr Laus (PD). What are you talking about? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). None of you are outraged because "Beautiful hello" has become a song from discotheques, in which they bang drug addicts and alcoholics. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the FdI Group]] You've been silent on "Beautiful hello" and today, in order to make biecious controversy, use even the national anthem, of which - let me tell you, I accept bets - you may know a part of the first verse, but you certainly don't even know the second one. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u116	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we are faced with yet another measure on security, or rather we are faced with yet another measure called a security decree, but in reality it is more in response to the demands of propaganda and permanent electoral campaign. We've already seen it with the first security decree. We had denounced it and we were right: in that text there was no measure to give more security to Italian citizens. It was so true that none of the implementing decrees were necessary to run that decree-law was issued. That measure, of which some points have already been declared unconstitutional, has served to interrupt the paths of integration and to throw into illegality, often in the middle of a road, thousands of immigrants who lived legally in our country enjoying the protection permit. It was meant to increase returns, but in reality, as the data show, it did not increase them, indeed: the rejections of this Government have decreased. On the other hand, the processes that already worked to promote voluntary returns have been interrupted. In short, the first decree-law has not improved, as the chronicles and facts show, the safety of citizens. The fact that today it remains a dead letter, precisely because the implementing decrees have not been adopted for many parts, says a lot. The decree-law under consideration will be the same. There are no useful rules, these are not the rules that were used to give more security to citizens. There's a lot of propaganda, it's a manifest rule. There is nothing that responds to the prosecutors of the anti-mafia district directions, who demand no more administrative, but more Forces of order, that allow them to better investigate against organized crime. There's nothing to counter and prevent those thefts in the apartment that seemed to be the main problem in the country when you wanted to use them to justify the horrible law on self-defense. I'm not a problem anymore. There is no organizational measure to improve the contrast and prevention, as we are proposing with a motion that we presented to the Senate and the House. There is also nothing, in reality, to govern control and immigration, to counter the dozens of daily landings, the ghost landings of the barchini, those coming from Tunisia and not from Libya, those arriving in Sardinia, Calabria, Trapani. They are many, they are brought by the mafias, even by the Italian mafia. They are brought - the prosecutors tell us - along with cigarettes, which are again a useful trade, and arms. They're people we don't know who enter Italy. I would like to know how you are doing this defense of national borders! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Where are the rules in this decree-law to defend national borders from this phenomenon, which is now evident, but which you continue to deny? Above all there is nothing to really increase the presence of the Forces of the Order on the territory. Sometimes it seems to me, when I see the Minister of the Interior turning among the different prefectures to make the meetings of the safety committees, to attend the scene of the cows of Mussolini: there are always 200 more policemen promised in every Province and in every city, but none of these cities, none of these Provinces has yet seen a policeman, because the Forces of the Order, those who did the competitions, who were hired and who are doing the courses, are alone and exclusively what our Government wanted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On this you continue to make propaganda, but you have done nothing from this point of view. On the other hand, the Forces of Order, which we heard in the Commission and which did not seem so satisfied with this decree-law, do not yet have the contract and I am not really happy that I do not have the reordering of careers. If not to do all this, which was what was really needed, why did you issue a decree-law? There was no need for a decree-law to increase food stamps or provide for the uniforms of the Forces of Order; an administrative act was sufficient. Unfortunately, the heart of this measure is not security, but propaganda, the search for the enemy, keeping alive a false representation of reality, the one that says that it is NGOs, that is, those who save people at sea, those responsible for our insecurities. This thesis is based on three false premises: firstly there is an immigration emergency: but then, if it is true that the landings (data of the Ministry of Interior) have decreased by 84 percent, where is this emergency? Secondly, there is a collusion between NGOs and traffickers: I have also heard it mentioned in a number of heartfelt speeches today. I inform you that there are at least three prosecutors who have been investigating this thesis for years and it has brought nothing: it is a theorem that I understand is convenient, but it is absolutely unproved. Finally, there is the most absurd thesis: without non-governmental organizations, without those who save at sea, people will no longer go to sea. That is not the case. We are talking about people who are willing to risk their lives - we know that - to escape from war, torture, poverty. UNHCR and Sant'Egidio have explained to us and told us in the Commission that in the Mediterranean we die and despite the decrease in landings we die again and we die so much, indeed, in percentage we die more since the abandonment of the Sophia mission, we die more since the life has become difficult to those who save people at sea: 650 people died in the shipwrecks in these first months. In the face of this, the decree-law to our examination intervenes, with rigour and firmness, as has been said, not to govern immigration but to punish and discourage the rescues, not only of NGOs but of anyone, not to govern or control immigration. I think that if you were not blinded by propaganda and ideology, it would be clear that with this measure the Government wants to hinder those who are at sea to save those who risk dying. He chooses to wash his hands. I think that defining cynical, as well as useless, this decree-law is little. Many, in these hours, from Free to Catholic organizations, to trade unions, are telling this Parliament, to each of us, that what we are voting on is inhumane. They're right. With this measure you are saying that, for the Italian Government - all the Italian Government, don't hide, nobody hides behind Salvini - those who put themselves at sea can have only two options: die or be brought back in the Libyan lagers to be harassed, tortured and robbed by the same traffickers. They do, they get rich and continue to get rich by vexing these people, other than PD system! You are not doing anything to counter those who really get rich in the face of this system. Each of us has the responsibility to vote today, knowing that that is what we are going to vote for. We will vote against this measure in our examination, because we will also vote on this, including people's lives. To speak ill of PD, as I have heard here, does not change the substance: you speak ill of PD, but you will have to decide to vote or not vote on a measure that calls into question the possibility of saving people at sea. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, a provision that says that those who save people at sea face a lot of problems. So think what you want about PD, but you're going to vote for this right now. The PD will vote against this measure and even more, with more conviction, against the confidence of a Government, whose entire majority addresses in this way issues such as this, which concern people's lives. The survival of human beings comes after the election campaign, after the propaganda, after the desire to stay in the government. Continue to build consensus on the skin of the desperate, without giving answers to the real problems of the Italians, on the contrary try to hide the real problems of the Italians, to explain your failure, demonstrated by the economic data, the increase of taxes, from the South increasingly in difficulty, downloading the responsibility on the weakest: we will not be accomplices. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u119	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you may also decide to turn to the other side, but you will never be able to say that you did not know that again. These are not my words, but of William Wilberforce, who in 1807, in the British Parliament, after years of work, managed to get the abolition of slave trade and thanks to him, in the same years, other European countries and also the United States did the same. It took another 26 years for Wilberforce and his colleagues to achieve the total abolition of slavery in the British Empire. The Royal Navy, in those years, had established that slave ships would be treated like pirate ships and a fine of a hundred pounds was imposed on the captain of the ship for every slave found on board. Europe and the world had to wait, however, in 1948, with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for slavery and slave trade to be prohibited throughout the Planet: The trade of slaves must be prohibited in all its manifestations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Today, in 2019, two hundred and twelve years later, trafficking in human beings, which is closely linked to the smuggling of migrants and the aiding of illegal immigration, makes a total of 34 billion dollars a year, the third trade that brings more money, after that of drugs and weapons. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Trafficking in human beings is based on usury and free work, in exchange for a loan or service, for example a trip, forced labor as cheap labour and begging, trafficking in minors for different purposes, trafficking in sexual backgrounds, which is the most frequent. It is an organized network, starting from the smallest village in Africa and reaching the most civilized cities in Northern Europe. In recent years, according to data from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and not from the League, these gains have multiplied, thanks to traffic in the Mediterranean. The IOM data, for example, referring only to the phenomenon of prostitution, say that, between 2011 and 2017, 80% of Nigerian women arrived thanks to traffic in the Mediterranean ended up in the network of exploitation of prostitution. They are women who leave, deceived by false promises of marriage or false promises of employment, by small villages in Nigeria and only when they arrive in Libya do they discover the cruel destiny that awaits them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Libya they are raped in a barbaric way and are put pregnant, so when they arrive here they do not even know where the children come from, if they are not done abortion in an absolutely cruel and inhuman way. Here you pay ten euros for a sexual performance, in any street of any city in the very civilized Europe. This is an unimaginable social and humanitarian damage, which so far no one has tried to block. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a moral obligation to stop the trafficking of human beings of the 21st century, the new slavery. Defending the borders of the European Union is a prerequisite of the Schengen Treaty, without which there can be no opening of internal borders and we have been alone in managing European borders! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is not we who have to ask Europe for a favor to come and help us: it is the borders of Europe! In 1800 the European Union was not there, but the countries were able to unite anyway, to stop the slave trade. Here the problem is not only the redistribution of migrants. It is too convenient to say, as some European countries do: give us even forty, but not economic migrants, only refugees. And of the others, of all the hundreds of thousands of people who have arrived in recent years, is Europe interested? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Where'd they go? What kind of life do they have? What life will their children have? We need, yes, special channels for refugees, but it must not only be Italy that thinks about it. There is the European Union; there is the UN. We continue to talk about these fantastic institutions that, however, have not moved a finger until today, leaving us alone. You know, since 2013, for months, maybe over a year, I worked in Milan, near the central station. And for more than a year, every day, in the morning and in the evening, I have seen hundreds, thousands of real refugees, Syrians and Eritreans, who do not know how, left from the ports of the South, we do not know with whom and we do not know on board what means, without being registered on arrival. The then Interior Minister Alfano let tens of thousands of people escape from South to North; people who not only didn't want to stay in Italy, but who the Minister Alfano didn't even know where to put. He let them bivouac in Central Station, women and children, in the midst of garbage. Nobody fed them, except voluntary associations; and at night, in the silence of the Italian media, that government, the local institutions, Europe and the UN left on trains to cross the border. And you know how I found out? From a Swiss newspaper, because no one was talking about it here! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The prefects, warned, at the last moment of the arrival of thousands of people in one day, did not know where to place them. Then they called the mayors, threatened requisitions of real estate, asked to host them to private individuals and, sometimes, entrusted these people, these human beings, to unscrupulous cooperatives, who did not even have the qualifications to host them: but somewhere they had to put them. This was the way to manage the landings of the Led Governments, Renzi and Minister Alfano. And now you tell us that we must make more returns: but who told Europe to send them all to us? For flexibility! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] COMINANCES (PD). You did it! You signed it! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Men in exchange for money. This, however, is the past, fortunately. The landings and the deaths at sea have dropped drastically, because someone put their face on it and someone knew for the first time say no! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] BITI (PD). But Salvini is not in the Chamber! He didn't put his face on it! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Because one yes, today, does not only go against the interest of Italian citizens, that we as rulers have the duty to protect, just as all European countries should do, but also goes against the interest of so many African peoples that no one has ever helped. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Closed ports means discouraging departures, putting traffickers in trouble and giving more hope to people who are vulnerable, victims of trafficking and are the new slaves of the 21st century. I am very proud of our Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Live comments from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). We don't! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). In 1807 they were a hundred pounds of fine to the captain of the ship carrying slaves; in 2019 they are from 150,000 to one million euros of fine for the traffickers of human beings of the 21st century. I'm about to finish. There are many other important measures in this decree-law, but my colleagues have spoken very well about them. 14 months ago, I was here, in the same place, to trust the government for the first time. It has been a great honour and I am here today with the same conviction as then and with a great sense of responsibility. [[Comments from the PD Group]] And I confirm, no doubt, my trust and the Lega-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action to the Government of Change. But I also want to confirm another trust that I've gained over the last 14 months. It is a confidence in the majority of our colleagues. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , colleagues with whom we have worked so hard, we have been discussing the various measures and we have worked in harmony, with mutual esteem and respect, even in the most complicated moments, always overcoming every obstacle thanks to the dialogue and friendship that binds us. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az and M5SComments from the PD Group]] We still have a lot to do together, because, beyond our differences, we are all driven by the same great and important objective, to do the good of the Italian people. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S.Many congratulations. Senator Pharaoh sets out a sign that says: "Dishumanity cannot become a law." Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u120	Get that sign off!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u123	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, as in the case of the first safety decree, Forza Italia judges the measure on the substance. Stricter security measures were part of the centre-right programme, to which Forza Italia considers itself bound, as we have stated in every passage of this legislature, since its inception. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We therefore support all the strictest measures against those who engage in illegal trafficking, against NGOs and against those who behave violently in the streets. As in the case of the previous decree-law, we are not concerned about what is there, we are concerned about what is not and on which we want to draw the attention of this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What's there is fine. We asked the government not to raise the question of trust and we did not do any obstruction: we tabled, Mr President, 100 amendments for a decree of fifteen articles (all but obstructionism). We have highlighted eight amendments, four of two billion euros and four of a billion euros, telling the government to choose one, to allocate at least one billion, if they did not want to allocate two, for one of the following choices, that the government could make. The first choice concerned the contract of the security-defense sector, which expired for two hundred days and to renew which there is no negotiation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Wasn't that a good choice? The other choice was the reorganization of careers: the deadline is 30 September and a hundred million have been allocated, divide them for all members of the Police Forces and there are only a few cents left. This was the second option we gave you. A third option, alternative, concerned the staff, because today the police forces are under staff and the assumptions announced are not visible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Police chief Gabrielli recalled days ago that the staff are already below the wretched cuts made by PD-led governments and that we do not forget, starting with Minister Madia, that he cut the police force staff by 10% with a stroke of pen. We said to choose one amendment only and we would withdraw everyone else. The deadline was one afternoon in the Senate and one afternoon in the House. The decree-law expires almost mid-August, you could safely work and give a billion to the police forces. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Instead, we have also seen discussions in the government about the extraordinary military of the safe roads operation. We are in solidarity with the Police, Carabinieri and Finance Guard, but we believe that having denied those funds for overtime to the military was a short-sighted choice, which we also want to challenge on this occasion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We would have liked better rules for urban decorum and evictions, which we must all do and we must deal with the reclamation of the cleared areas in order to avoid that, made the live TV scene, the degradation is reappropriated again of San Lorenzo and the outskirts of many cities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have made proposals for the fire department, praised by all at times of misfortune and forgotten at the time of the laws in Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have proposed further severe sanctions for NGOs and traffickers: something has been done, but something else has not been done. We wanted the use of the taser for the prison police and the armed forces employed in the safe road operation, but none of these questions have been answered positively: neither contracts, nor hiring, nor reordering of careers. This is not good, because there is no such thing in the decree. We wanted and would also want stricter rules to protect the police forces: instead, to establish the crime of torture against the police forces, the real tortures of the Italian streets. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We wanted and would like to see a crime of street terrorism planned, because there are No TAVs that throw real bombs every day on the police and we can no longer do terrorism No TAV. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Not only do we want the TAV, but we want to say enough to terrorism No TAV, with hundreds of policemen and carabinieri injured over the course of these years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Today a police union has remembered that were 181 the wounded of the police from June to today, the last in Milan yesterday. The Carabinieri in 2018 had 1,500 injured or bruised and on July 26 of this year the wounded and the bruised, not to mention the victims, are already 955; at the end of the year they will be even more than last year, because they have lost respect for the authority and we want to restore a principle of respect for the public authority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the immigration front, very little is done about return, we could say nothing; little is done about the revision of the Dublin Regulation, an issue that was Force Italia, with Tajani, to put vigorously in the European Parliament and that the Government must bring to completion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We'll be there, but it's the government that doesn't take care of it. Returns are progressing very slowly; bilateral agreements are scarce. On NGOs, let me remind you that, in the previous legislature, it was Forza Italia who wanted a survey of NGOs, from which began a regulation approved unanimously, which was the first moment of closeness. We have also done other things: when there was the Diciotti case, it was the undersigned, not to make a political defense, but to invoke what the Assembly shared and voted, that is to say that it had acted in compliance with the Constitution to ensure the security of the state. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have therefore contributed in terms of law and constitution to affirming a truth. So there are many things to do. I would like to make a brief comment on the issue of drugs, which is linked to the issue of safety. When two children were mowed on a road in Sicily, mad drivers were in the grip of drugs. The father who made direct Facebook in Alcamo, who led to the death of two children, was in the grip of drugs. Vice-Brigadiere Cerciello Rega himself was also the victim of the use and abuse of drugs, against which the government just now. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Is it not enough to invoke stricter rules against drug dealers when we approve them? We are there - we must help the recovery communities and finance the anti-drug information campaigns, which have been completely abandoned. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] See how many more things you can do? I am surprised - I tell my colleagues in the League - that the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars, the day before yesterday, proposed in the Senate the legalization of cannabis. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We want more community recovery and no other cannabis shop open in our cities, while someone still proposes legalization. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We are therefore very sorry that not even this symbolic billion has been allocated by the Government and we will insist. But I want to say something. Colleagues, we are a thousand miles away from all the various lefts, from those who board the Sea-Watch and from those who make Carola their political leader. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are very far from that logic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, the president of our Group, Senator Bernini, went to Lampedusa yesterday to say, once more, which way we stand. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We're with the Finance Guard, the Coast Guard, and whoever was aboard a 600-ton ship, who could slaughter the Finance Guard on a fiberglass boat, is ashamed to be on that boat. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] As it's not enough, you sent Scalfarotto from PD to the deputy sergeant Cerciello's killer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Will he be your next hero? We are a thousand miles away from who chooses Carola and who visits who killed a carabiniere with 11 stab wounds. We have nothing to do with these pirates. However, we will not participate in the vote in order not to increase the political confusion. Our positions are clear: we want more on security and clarity on the fight against immigration. We're not going to participate because we say yes to security, but no to this government. Why should we say yes to the government? Deputy Prime Minister Salvini, who isn't here, says from morning to night that he doesn't like this government on the TAV, taxes and self-government. Why should it please us that this government has not trusted it? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We don't like this government either for the same reasons that Matteo Salvini doesn't like it; we don't like it, says our President Berlusconi. Mr President, for all these reasons of merit we say yes to security, but no to trust this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u126	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the security- bis decree that we are about to convert has created alarm in a part of the country. There have been calls from several quarters not to convert it because it would discourage rescue at sea, on the one hand, and, on the other, it would limit the freedom of expression of thought and dissent in this country. However, the Parliamentary Group at the 5 Star Movimento Senate believes that this is not the case. The measure in question does not sanction anyone who saves the shipwrecked; it provides, instead, in Article 1, that the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Minister of Defence and that of the infrastructures and the transports, can limit or prohibit to non-military ships the entry into the territorial sea, as well as the docking in our ports for reasons of order, public security or also in case of violation of the law on immigration or in violation of the conventions of the United Nations on the law of the sea. This article is intended to specify that the said prohibition must intervene in compliance with the international obligations assumed by our country, including the conventions that guarantee the sacred - and I repeat - duty of rescue of life at sea. In other words, it must be quite clear that the duty for our State and the order to assist shipwrecks remains unchanged, as well as to provide medical-humanitarian assistance to the ships that have been rescued, without, however, automatically implying the possibility for such ships to land in our ports. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Romeo]] This is in line with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the recent Sea-Watch 3 case. The above rule also appears useful to put an end to the practice that all ships operating rescues in the Mediterranean, whatever the search and rescue zone (SAR) of reference, are automatically authorized to land the shipwrecks in Italy. I remember in fact that Annex 3 to the operational plan of the mission Triton, operating from 2014 to 2018, ratified by the previous Government, previewed that the ships of the European Countries that patrolled the Mediterranean brought the migrants rescued only in Italy. It was an unacceptable rule, applied also to the naval operation Sophia and that this Government has repeatedly asked to modify, until Europe, in order not to take charge of the shared reception - I emphasize it still - preferred to interrupt the operation, leaving free field to the rescues of the non-governmental organizations [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] and also, with a known fact to the chronicles, to the increase of the participation of small boats that have given life to a micro-trafficking. For this reason, the Movimento 5 Stars, besides wanting to resolve at the root the socio-economic causes that lie at the base of the immigration, as remembered from Senator Marilotti, and to want to introduce legal corridors of entry for asylum seekers, considers urgent to bring back to the Mediterranean the European ships, obviously with new rules that foresee landings or sorting all over Europe: the whole European Union must do its part [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] To determine that the landings and therefore the reception took place in Italy has triggered a state of social alarm that must now be remedied, but - it is clear - always respecting the principle of constitutional legality, as supplemented by the Community system of sources. The measure in question, therefore (it should be stressed), does not alter at all the relationship of our State with respect to the legal and moral obligations to rescue people at sea and to guarantee safety to the boats operating rescues, but fills the uncertainty present in our legal order about the possibility and the modalities of the prohibition of landing on the Italian territory if this is contrary to the order and to the public safety or in violation of the laws on immigration or, still, of the Convention of Montego Bay. I remember that migrants want to reach Europe and that our borders, our coasts, before they are Italy's, are Europe's. In this regard, on 28 June 2018, the European Council established, on the basis of our resolution, that migrants must be automatically redistributed among all European countries, surpassing the absurd Dublin principle that requires reception to the landing country alone, but I believe that this is a subject that is widely represented in this House. This agreement has not yet found application, forcing Italy to enter into international negotiations for every single ship. Moving on to the next legislative text, Article 2 of the Security Decree -bis provides for the imposition of an administrative penalty charged to the commander and - on the initiative of the Movimento 5 Stars has been introduced a further modification - also of the owner and the shipowner, as well as the confiscation of the ship since the first violation of the prohibition of access (also this modification has been introduced by us) and its assignment to police and captains who can use it for activities of patrol, civil protection or environmental protection. I stress once again that helping migrants who risk their lives at sea remains an absolute legal and moral obligation: no private ship - this message must pass clearly - will ever be sanctioned or penalized for having fulfilled this obligation, which remains binding in our order. If the captains of fishing vessels or merchant ships who deserve to save lives at sea respect the law, they will have nothing to fear. In summary, the following picture emerges: the boat that had to come across migrants in difficulty will be able and will have to proceed immediately to the rescue, except then inform the captains of the happened. It will be up to the military or otherwise part of the forces of order to take charge of the rescued people, and then to wait for the appropriate indications in order to distribute among all the European States those unfortunate who - let us not forget - risking their lives, escape from wars, misery or persecution. As far as the rules on demonstrations are concerned, I will make a quick reference. Article 6 tightens the penalties for those who, during public demonstrations, put in real danger the safety of people by throwing rockets, firecrackers or the like or by using sticks or other blunting bodies; it is not enough to launch a smoke or a firecracker, but it is necessary to put the safety of people in real danger. Moreover, such conduct is the same as already punished in our order when carried out at sporting events, and it necessarily distinguishes between danger for the integrity of things or persons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This also does not affect the freedom to demonstrate peacefully. The limit is not to endanger the safety of others. I then mention Article 7, in the parts where it extends the aggravating factors provided for in Article 339 of the Criminal Code also to cases where such offences are committed in the context of demonstrations, and introduces the charge for the interruption of a public or public service office or service if such behaviour occurs during demonstrations. These crimes were already foreseen and an aggravating factor is introduced because of the occasion (public demonstrations) in which they are committed. A mention of the valorization of the provision, aimed at strengthening the structures made available to the Forces of the order, providing for new competitions and the provision of more resources. This is a very important aspect that should meet the consensus of the wider part of this House. A thoughtful and serene analysis allows us, therefore, to positively evaluate this measure, which the Movimento 5 Stars has helped to improve and which also offers us the basis for an important general reflection of a methodological character. I am referring to the opportunity to deal with complex issues with ordinary legislation because of their constitutional and ethical implications. The parliamentary dialectic allows, thanks to the confrontation between all the elected, whether of majority or opposition, to achieve greater sharing, for the benefit of social peace. I therefore call for my Group to vote in favour, while at the same time calling for Parliament to return to the centre of this country's political initiative. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations. Ironic applause from Senator Richetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u127	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u128	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1437, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 53, 14 June 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Garnero Santanchè is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Garnero Santanchè. (Senator Secretary Tosato and, later, Senator Secretary Pisani Giuseppe make the appeal). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bongiorno, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottini, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Countryside, Campari, Candiani, Cantù, Cario, Casalati, Castaldi, Castiello, Castiello, Catalfo, Centinario, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Corti, Croatti, Crucioli D'Angelo, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio Lregolenti, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista Faggi, Fede, Fedenu, Ferrara, Ferrero, Ferrero, Floro, Floredi, Florio, Florio, Lorenti, Giorenti, Gianzio Locolenti, Gianzio, Gianzio, Gianciolenti, Gianzio, Gia Alfieri, Astorre Bellanova, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bonino, Bressa Casini, Cirinnà, Collina, Beginini, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Petris Errani Faraone, Fedeli, Ferrari, Ferrazzi Garavini, Ginetti, Grasso, Grimani Iori Laforgia, Laus Magorno, Malpezzi, Manca, Marcucci, Margiotta, Marino, Martelli, Messina Assuntela, Mirabelli, Misiani, Nannicini, Nugnes Parente, Pinotti, Pittella Richetti, Rojc, Rossomando Sbrollini, Stefano Taricco Unterberger Valente, Vattuone, Verducci Zanda The senators are abstaining: Balboni, Bertacco Calandrini, Ciriani de Bertoldi, Durnwalder Fazzolari Garnero Santanchè Iannone La Pietra, La Russa, Lanièce Maffoni Tapes Petrenga Rauti, Ruspandini Steger Totaro Urso Zaffini. (Senators Aimi, Barachini, Battistoni, Berardi, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Cangini, Carbone, Causin, Cesaro, Craxi, Dal Mas, Damiani, De Poli, De Siano, Fantetti, Fazzone, Ferro, Floris, Galliani, Gallone, Gasparri, Giro, Malan, Mallegni, Mangialavori, Masini, Messina Alfredo, Minuto, Modena, Moles, Pagano, Papatheu, Paroli, Pichetto Fratin, Rizzotti, Romani, Ronzulli, Saccone, Schifani, Serafini, Siclari, Stabile, Tiraboschi, Toffanin, Vitali declare that they do not participate in the vote) I declare closed the vote and I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u129	Mr Senators, awaiting the result of the roll-call vote, I inform you that, as established by the Conference of Leaders, tomorrow's session will begin at 12 a.m. for the examination of the decree-law concerning urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and the bill of delegation in the matter of sports law. At 10.30 a.m., the Conference of the Leaders is convened to define the calendar of proceedings for September.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u132	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, the Calabria Region's environmental energy plan, approved in February 2005, excluded the possibility of ubiquitous treatment, processing, storage and disposal of all kinds of waste on the entire Croatian territory, already saturated at that time. Today that the management of waste in Calabria is at the end of the line, the regional administrators have decided to concentrate in the private landfill of Columbra, near Papanice of Crotone, the residues of all the optimal territorial areas (ATO) Calabrian, increasing it in height up to about 150 meters. The citizens of Crotone and their spokesmen in Parliament for the Movimento 5 Stars reject this decision to the sender with indignation, asking vice versa for a new commissioning, after the ineffective one of 2013: such ignorance and ignorance of the precautionary principle in the outer belt of one of the largest Italian sites of national interest, polluted for 70 years by industrial waste of all kinds, with obvious compromise of the environment and public health, are frankly intolerable. The people of Papanice have the same rights as the other Italian citizens, Mr President. The inhabitants of Scandale have the same rights, despite the fact that in their territory, at the border with Crotone, in Santa Marina, the Ecolsystema srl asked the Region in 2014 for the modification of the CER codes entering the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) granted by a decree of the general manager of March 2010: modification of the CER codes - I repeat - with a decree of the general manager cancelled in 2012 by decree of the President of the Republic and, therefore, to any good non-existent account. The Region, however, today very much wants that landfill, although it has not included it in the regional or provincial planning of sector. I therefore appeal directly to Minister Costa to intervene authoritatively and to urge the regional offices to put themselves on the path of legality. In addition to involving the prosecutor, a new extraordinary appeal to the President of the Republic has been presented in recent days by 16 citizens against the absurd claims of the Calabria Region. Santa Marina di Scandale is, in fact, an area frequently crossed by fires, surrounded by farms (also certified organic) and zootechnics, also crossed by a large-scale pipeline with relative servitudes, decreed in 1979, incompatible with the gases produced by the processing of waste from the separate collection that would be treated in the landfill. Nevertheless Terna was not invited to the service conference and neither was the Municipality of Crotone, in whose agro are found half of the previously mentioned farms and some hundreds of residents. All this information, including the existence of the pipeline, was silenced by the client and ignored by the technical evaluation structure of the Region, which based its investigation of 2015-2017, favorable to Ecolsystema, on a report about the status of the thirty-year-old places: free ignorance at best, the result of corruption, and therefore well paid, at worst. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by repeating the request to remove waste management from regional administrators who have clearly betrayed the electoral mandate, they have sold themselves and the territory of Croatia to the lords of flies. I repeat also the request to Minister Costa to be the change, trying to scrub from the desks of the Region anyone who is inclined to do the interests of the lobby instead of the Italian citizens and promoting a serious verification of the environmental garrisons of the landfill of Santa Marina, perhaps through ISPRA, that exposes the lying statements of the Ecolsystema and the environmental department of the Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u135	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 August and 4 August, no meetings were held and, therefore, we could not remember how the martyrs of the Bologna massacre and of the Italicus massacre deserved. Thirty-nine years have passed since that tragic 2 August 1980 and we still do not know the names of the perpetrators of that terrible terrorist massacre at Bologna station, which caused the death of eighty-five innocent citizens and the injury of another two hundred. The material executioners (the neo-fascist terrorists Francesca Mambro, Valerio Fioravanti and Luigi Ciavardini) were condemned in a definite way and the state depistrators were condemned (in the figures of some apical infidel leaders of the Sismi, the then military secret service, such as General Musumeci and Colonel Belmonte). Also for the detours were also condemned the caretaker Patience and the great master of the loggia P2 Licio Gelli. The hijackers tried in every way to stifle the truth and protect both the senders and the material perpetrators of the massacre. Unfortunately, the senders so far have got away with it, although it is not difficult to imagine what area they belonged to. In the massacre of Italicus on August 4, 1974 - forty - five years have passed - the bomb that killed twelve innocents and wounded forty - eight others remained without guilt: neither the material performers nor the senders are known. In this regard, the President of the Republic recalled yesterday that: The investigations and trials, although not leading to the identification of the perpetrators, have confirmed the link with other attacks and with the destabilizing strategy ordained in those years. The neo-fascist matrix is made explicit in the judgment of the Supreme Court and then in the same conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the P2 loggia. As I said, it has been thirty-nine years in one case and forty-five in the other, but to stop fighting for the truth, to think that it has been too long to reach it, would be to betray our dead; it would be to do a favor to those who wanted to kill, in terror, democracy and freedom. We don't have to let that happen. We don't have to give up. We must not forget the blood spilled by unarmed and innocent citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u136	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1437, of conversion into law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 53, 14 June 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 289 Senators voting 238 Majority 109 Favorables 160 Contrars 57 Absent 21]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] FARAONE (PD). Shame! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Get back on the ship! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 53.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-142.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, August 6, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.30 p.m.
