ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 13 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1586. I would remind you that the general debate ended at the sitting on 13 December. I call the rapporteur, Senator Accoto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, I have listened carefully to the speeches that have taken place on Thursday and Friday last in this House. I have given a lot of thought to the reply to the debate, which has certainly been interesting, although - I must say - little focus on the maneuver and much on a media reading of it and of the amendments. I think this needs to be reviewed. I therefore want to start with what really is this maneuver and then move on to the amendments that have adjusted the shot. The debate on the maneuver can only be positive, because we cannot but claim that it is a measure that aims at the economic, cultural and social revival of this country and that seeks to strengthen the signs of recovery that are there. Most of the speeches I heard were focused on issues that, while they have animated the political debate in various fora, then covering several key amendments of the measure and subsequently approved, it is equally true that they are not the only contribution of this measure to the country. A maneuver which - it is important not to forget this - was first and foremost committed to preventing the increase in VAT. I do not think that I have heard any major speeches, either from the majority or from the opposition, suggesting that VAT should be increased. Therefore, a maneuver committed to VAT and on major issues: from interventions for the investments of local authorities, regions, central administrations, to the revival of the sustainable economy, the environment and the protection of the territory, welfare, health, industry and education. I believe that the Senate has fulfilled its duty and has given space to its role, i.e. to evaluate the maneuver as a whole and to make those that can be useful changes for the country. And of these, beyond the micro or localistic interventions that have been talked about, we find a lot of them. Returning to the changes discussed in the majority and in the country, the corrections made to the plastic tax, reduced to 45 cents per kilo; to the sugar tax, postponed to October; to the Robin tax, that is the additional Ires rise to 3.5% for the concessionaires of highways, ports, airports and railways and to the tax on the company cars, now remodulated, show that in the time that we have had available, on such complex topics both technically, and for the various political visions, we have found a point of balance in some cases. As far as plastic tax and sugar tax are concerned, I would like to reiterate what has already been said in my report on Thursday, because perhaps it will have escaped: these taxes are nothing more than taxes of purpose. I would like to stress that the basic philosophy of these measures remains entirely unchanged, i.e. to use the tax lever to promote a change in production models, in a more environmentally friendly and environmentally sustainable sense, and to help spread consumer behaviour that is more attentive to the health of citizens. In the speeches of the opposition colleagues, we continued to talk, on the other hand, only about increasing taxes: nothing more false! Let us not forget that having already defused the increase in VAT - as I said before - is in fact an intervention for taxpayers' citizens. I remind everyone that this action will save about 600 euros per family from next year. The operation was important, because it allowed to block two harmful effects that would have been produced by the increase in VAT tax: a depressive effect on consumption (and therefore effects on GDP growth); a regressive effect, i.e. it would have impoverished households with the lowest incomes. It is true that we were the last maneuver to postpone to this year the burden of increasing VAT to be defused, inherited from the old governments since 2011, but it is also true that we still have and have taken with a sense of responsibility the duty to cancel the increase in tax in order to give citizens a good budget law. Someone else, on the other hand, preferred to wash their hands by opening a government crisis in the early days of August. Too easy to escape! Today, in this House, we are about to vote on a maneuver that is on the side of people, families, young people and the elderly. I would like to remind you once again of what has been done. In the health field, a fund has been set up to support the study, research and evaluation of the incidence of endometriosis in the national territory; we have introduced the possibility within the national health service for patients with chronic diseases, to use, on request, at pharmacies, a customized drug administration service; we have abolished the superticket on specialist visits that, in addition to weighing on families, has created a distortion between the various regions in the use of the instrument. This cancellation will lighten the families for half a billion euros per year. We have introduced measures to implement a public investment plan for the development of an Italian green new deal in line with the strategy announced by the European Commission, establishing a fund to be allocated with a budget of 470 million euros for 2020, 930 million euros for 2021, 1,420 million euros for each of the years 2022 and 2023, to support specific investment programmes and operations aimed at achieving economically sustainable projects; adaptation and mitigation of the risks arising from climate change and relaunching of new development and employment, including through incentives for young entrepreneurs and innovative startups. We have introduced green tax credit starting from 2020 to encourage environmental decarbonisation and circular economy projects by increasing the existing allocation of 420 million over the three years. From the point of view of investments, in particular those related to sustainable development and energy efficiency, this maneuver stabilizes up to 2024 the 500 million euros per year that on impulse of the Movimento 5 stars have been put to dispositions of the Municipalities. For the protection of the territory we have allocated amounts for the completion of the official geological map of Italy remained firm and never finished. This maneuver was criticized by saying that it has no goals and no mission. Well I believe that there is a mission, and it is to improve the lives of citizens by being on the side of citizens and not of large companies. The only real taxes we have in this maneuver are the gambling operators, the motorway and airport dealers and the web giants. You have also said that we have done nothing for young people: perhaps you have missed the intervention on the training of our young people through the funding for the school sector; the resources to be allocated to the contribution relief for the recruitment of first-level apprentices; the measures introduced on the paths of the higher technical institutes, in order to improve the employment outcomes of young people in the field of technological innovation, including through the infrastructure of dedicated offices and laboratories; the allocation of resources for specialization schools for the training of doctors and other health professions. Another intervention of this budget law and its mission was to have set up in the estimates of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a fund called the Disability and Non-self-sufficiency Fund with a budget of €59 million for 2020. We have spoken in defence and in favour of women. I mention only the funding of the Extraordinary Action Plan against Sexual and Gender Violence and the establishment of the fund to support the purchase of breast milk substitutes for women with pathological conditions that prevent the natural practice of breast-feeding. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, I can say that with all the majority political forces, there has been a synergistic work on an economic impact budget law that could also guarantee a wide range of benefits for the well-being of citizens. Another important aspect that I would like to stress is the great work that has been done to find solutions that can be shared, reaching texts shared by majority and opposition. There are still technical flaws, we all know that, because the work has been challenging. We are equally sure that the solution will be found. I should like to end by thanking you very much. I would like to thank the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, for he too, with such patience, has tried to respond to the needs of everyone, even when they were opposed, seeking a fair mediation. I would like to thank Mr Castelli and Mr Misiani, as well as Mr Castaldi and Mr Malpezzi, for their dedication, patience and tireless willingness to complete the work of the Commission. Of course, I thank my co-rapporteur and I thank the senators present, who have all, even the oppositions, shared this path with us. A special thanks goes also to all the offices of the Budget Committee and the Senate, which have supported us and still support us during this delicate but important moment for the financial year. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u7	Mr President, first of all, I would like to use my reply time to reiterate, above all, the political reasons behind and support the economic choices of this maneuver. But I will also try to respond to some of the comments made by my fellow Members in this House during the general debate. I do so starting with the expression of dissent, respectful but peremptory, towards those who in the interventions of Thursday and Friday have defined this a maneuver of small cabotage. A peremptory dissent because the maneuver to our examination avoids - let me repeat it again for the umpteenth time, despite someone disturbs to hear it again - an iceberg of at least 23 billion euros of increase in VAT and excise duty that would have constituted the largest increase of taxes from one year to the next. [[Applause from Senator Begin.]] That is all it would be enough to grant no licence to anyone to mark this measure as a small cabotage measure. We wanted to protect Italy from the increase in a tax that would have permanently curbed GDP and consumption, with all the distortions that such a regressive tax is capable of bringing into dowry. This security maneuver - I come back here to reiterate this - allows us to keep and keep the country sheltered from another tax, that of 300 of spread, lasted for fifteen months so much that, ictu oculi, we can say that there was a before and after the formation of this Government. A first one that saw 11 billion euros go up in smoke and a after fact of an expected saving of about 38 billion in the four years 2019-2022 for less spending on interest. It is no small thing, because this creates a different framework of context, which gives the country credibility and reliability. Then, be it clear: we are all aware of the difficulties with respect to the current international political and economic framework, in which - despite the recent first agreement between the USA and China for a gradual reduction of duties, which leaves some room for a slight optimism - "exist and resist" factors of deterioration and destabilisation, a generic geopolitical instability and, then, there is Brexit. In fact, on the subject of Brexit, I take the opportunity to say that the enthusiasm of someone, even in this House, for Johnson's victory represents not only a slap in the face of the European dream, but, going deeper, it is the manifest aporia of the sovereignty of our home. To those who rejoice I remind that there are more than 700,000 Italians who work and reside there and there are those who cheer for those who want to assign the label of unwanted to non-British people? That's the contradiction! Not before Italians! It is the contradiction of a sovereignism without meaning. Going back to the budget law, the measure we are talking about aims to reverse the current stagnation of the national economy, respecting the commitment to contain the public deficit and foreshadowing a change of direction in the path of debt growth. It has to be said that some encouragement from the route we have set out has already come to us, precisely on the days of vote in the Commission when, after Istat, Bankitalia - just a couple of days ago - has revised for 2019, marginally raises the estimate of GDP. Therefore, the central projection is a growth of 0.2% in the average of the year, above the estimates included in the DEF Update Note, which would gradually strengthen over the next three years. Still only weak signals - it is true - but you reverse the course to the most sign. Having said that, I return briefly to the content of the maneuver, which after sterilizing VAT and confirming the most important measures of support to enterprises, has provided to update the discipline of the incentives connected to Company 4.0, looking in a more convinced way towards the process of digital transition of the enterprises, the investment in research and development and in technological innovation, rationalizing and stabilising the facilities. [[Brusio.]] President, can you help me? So it's complicated to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u8	Today in audio there is a rumble, which I can hear also in my voice, unusual. I'm sorry. This rebound of amplification does not help and adds to the tone of voice of colleagues that should be kept lower.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u9	STEFANO, rapporteur. We have also introduced additional provisions on tax credit for investment in research, opening up the possibility of intervention in the field of fundamental research, applied research and experimental development in the field of science and technology. Similarly, tax credit measures have been extended to cover the costs of training employees to facilitate the acquisition and consolidation of technological skills. And then, again, we introduced correctives to the discipline of the ecobonus and the bonus earthquake. We have completely rewritten and optimized the article of the bonus facades: an important intervention that invests in quality and urban decor. We have introduced provisions for the financing of conversion and productive redevelopment of crisis areas. In order to support access to the labour market and the vocational training of young people, we have introduced 100% contribution reductions for the recruitment of apprentices for three years. And then, with regard to the Mezzogiorno, in particular, my Mezzogiorno, we have arranged that the allocation of the resources of the capital expenditure programmes aimed at the growth or support of the investments to be allocated on the national territory, which does not have criteria or indicators already identified, should also be done in accordance with the objective of allocating to the interventions in the territories of Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Basilicata, Calabria, Puglia, Sicily and Sardinia a volume of appropriations at least proportional to the resident population. There is also a rule that is a corollary to a package of measures covering agriculture and that includes for the first time a grant of up to 35% of eligible expenditure and subsidised loans of not more than 60% for the financing of initiatives aimed at the development of innovative production processes and of precision agriculture. There is another rule that leads back to the commitment that we have made to the activity of wine tourism and that includes the extension of the same measures also for oil tourism: a measure that I want to dedicate to Puglia, that Puglia that fights, with the nails and with the teeth, meter by meter, against the annoying xylella, that deserts, but cannot erase a heritage of identity and culture. In addition to the creation of the two public investment funds of central and local authorities and the green new deal fund, significant interventions were envisaged during the Commission's examination. For the improvement of the infrastructural network and of the transports, whose urgency is evident to all, we have introduced modifications to the dispositions already previewed in the text relative to the concessionaries, through a remodulation of the so-called Robin tax for the tax periods 2019-2020-2021, but making the effort to better identify the affected audience and, therefore, looking to the concessionaires highways, harbours and airporti, to the production and distribution of energy. And then again: for Venice an appropriation of 60 million euros for the year 2020 for the continuation of the interventions for the relative safeguard provided for by the special law for the city; for Genoa an extraordinary program of investments adopted by the extraordinary Commissioner appointed following the collapse of the Morandi bridge. Finally, with regard to local authorities, we have reached a gradual recovery of the cuts made to the municipal solidarity fund, the overall allocation of which is increased by 100 million in 2020, 200 million in 2021, 300 million in 2022, 330 million in 2023, 560 million from 2024. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u10	Stop! It is called Parliament because we are talking to a microphone, not the neighbour. There's an intolerable chaos.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u11	[[Applause]] STEFANO, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. Those who struggle to mark this as a maneuver of taxes and marks insist on asserting a fake, because this maneuver abjures taxes for at least 26 billion and devotes to microterritorial interventions ridiculous sums, of the order of zero point per cent. I challenge to prove the opposite and dare to find such low percentages in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, there is no failure to negotiate, dear colleague Mallegni; and I am sure that, if only you had participated for a few hours, you would have noticed otherwise, even in relation to Rule 44. Your colleagues in the Budget Committee, in the first place Senator Pichetto Fratin and Senator Tosato, did not make discounts, but they helped us improve the plant; and I thank them for that. A truly maieutic passage then in the Commission to the Senate, to which I remember already had the opportunity to contribute indirectly, but substantially, also the colleagues of the Chamber, who have strengthened and qualified a measure that was already born with the clear intention of putting the country on a new path of growth and development. I'm really gonna finish. Let us return to the good rule of a maneuver that comes to the House with the rapporteurs; it has not been happening for some time and I believe that this is a positive result for the whole Senate, not just for the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Could more be done? Of course I do, as always. However, we have done better than the previous one, so we can be satisfied. I, too, sincerely thank the structure of the Budget Committee, the technical and legislative offices of the MEF and the Department for relations with Parliament, the President Pesco and the rapporteur Accoto, but also all my fellow Commissioners of majority and opposition, the Under-Secretarys Misiani and Castelli. I was delighted with this hard but important commitment which I want to devote to this House in its entirety, which today is re-appropriated of a fundamental function. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u12	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u13	Mr President, first of all, I should like to express my thanks and greetings to all the parliamentary groups and to all the senators who have spoken in this House during the general debate last Friday, a sign that the manoeuvre is certainly an important political subject, which has revived the Groups and the debate. However, I would like to put some order to these issues which have been given in recent weeks and days and also to those now provided by the majority rapporteurs, since - and I would like to remind you once again in this House - I have done so on Friday and I repeat this today - this Government is born to prevent exclusively, from a political point of view, the so-called safeguard clauses. So let's start with a certain and definite figure, which is the famous EUR 23 billion that serves to defuse the safeguard clauses. Many others do other reconstructions; I do my numerical reconstruction. Given that - as I said - we need 23 billion euros, we want to say immediately that, of these 23 billion, 19 we inherit them from the previous Government Gentiloni Silveri, a center-left government that put these safeguard clauses up to the ceiling of 19 billion referring to 2020. This law, in fact, although it has a three-year programming, contains numbers that mainly concern 2020. We all know then the genesis of the same safeguard clauses on VAT, which started from 2011 (at the time there were 5 billion euros) and were imposed on us by the European Commission itself. Then there have been all the executives that have followed each other in recent years, from 2011 to today, and I would like to remind them: Monti, Letta, Renzi, Gentiloni Silveri and also the Government Count, who brought these safeguard clauses from 5 billion euros then to 23 today. Let us return to EUR 23 billion. If only the 23 billion VAT clauses were to be avoided - this was the main political reason - the maneuver would have to be 23 billion. Instead, this is not the case: more than 31 billion resources are used in this financial manoeuvre. Why do we need 23 and use 31? First of all, the expenditure is reduced by almost 4 billion, mainly because, for example, 100 is cheaper and, therefore, there is a touch up on expenditure. Moreover, there is a reduction in capital investment expenditure of more than EUR 2 billion and we in opposition absolutely do not share this choice because the maneuver should be focused solely on investment. There is, therefore, a reduction in expenditure of 4 billion and of these 2,3 are investment expenditures. It is a political decision - I repeat - which we do not agree with. There's still 19 billion left to reach 23. There are new revenues for just under 11 billion: 3.5 billion will come from a more comprehensive system of control over tax payments, but the others (over 8 billion) result from an increase in taxes, for example on the revaluation of the value of equity and real estate for 860 million. Then there are the actual taxes on production. Basically, on an economy that already has problems of growth we add taxes on production: already we do not produce so much, in addition we increase taxes. We hope at least that no one in this case will think that there is an increase in GDP. The tax on plastic production, although re-modulated, only in six months is worth 189 million for only six months and, instead, in 2021 over the whole year will be worth 802. The tax on the production of sugary drinks, but also on other beverages, is only worth about EUR 58 million for three months. In 2021 it will be worth 234 million euros. Then there are the taxes on people, which you of the government and the majority called "viziate." There are taxes ranging from games, tobacco and stamp taxes, which will generate 1.1 billion euros. From the revision of the VAT tax regime for VAT consignments will come 208 million, which will then become more than 2 billion in 2021. Revenue from advances and deductions amounted to 3.1 billion in 2020 and other revenue reflected in other interventions brings us to about 11 billion euros. In summary, we then have EUR 4 billion in expenditure reduction, EUR 11 billion in new revenue. That's how we recovered 15 billion. To reach 23, which would have been used to sterilize the safeguard clauses, only 8 billion euros of debt would have sufficed. Instead, we went to Europe and asked for 18 billion in debt. So, we asked for 10 billion more. To do what? This is the beauty of today, because with these other money you want to sweeten a maneuver that will be bitter for the Italians. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That's what greater debt was for. Put your soul in peace on a matter because it is written in the programmatic lines of the Government Count II and, that is, that the tax pressure in 2020 will increase: it will go from 41.9% to 42 percent. Those who say otherwise are false in this House. The tax burden will increase; you say it in your program and at this moment the independent bodies certify it, from Bank of Italy to Confindustria. That the taxes increase confirms it estimates and, as I said, increases the tax pressure. These speeches are not enough, which everyone in this House and, in particular, the majority forces have mentioned. You speak of about EUR 2 billion for kindergartens, but we must also remember the year on which these resources are placed, that is 2021. So, in 2020 we have absolutely nothing for kindergartens. Let's remind the Italians. Then, to those who have made up the billions of reduction in public debt charges, we must remind them of something more important: that there was an "enlightened" reduction in the ECB's public debt, and therefore in particular Mario Draghi, who surely with those transactions that were made led to a reduction in debt charges. Finally, I would like to mention, since we have talked about this (and have said so in the past) about the safeguard clauses, what their future will be after this manoeuvre. In fact, the VAT safeguard clauses have not been eliminated: they have certainly been deactivated for this year, but they are still worth 20 billion in 2021 and, if added to excise duties and VAT that can increase in the future, in 2022 they will be worth more than 26 billion. This too, therefore, is a joke, because you have not removed VAT clauses at all, because there are, indeed you have increased them to more than EUR 26 billion. These are the precise and numerical data of this financial manoeuvre. The government, therefore, today denies its reason for life, because a government that is born to sterilize VAT clauses and does not, indeed increases them, is no longer right to be. As we said, there are so many measures that do not go in the right direction at all. We must remember that also the growth estimates, which are not seen at all on the rise, will suffer a contraction here too, so after this maneuver Italy will certainly grow much less than the forecasts of the current legislation. Another issue is the debt-to-GDP ratio, which in this case will be over 136%, a number never reached before even in the past. These values are so eloquent that they cancel the whole maneuver in our examination, and then they also come to the question of the last few hours of cannabis that I believe this House has to deal with. In fact, on these issues too, Parliament must absolutely express itself and I hope that there will be a reconsideration on this subject. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In this respect, we are absolutely opposed to it. These, as I said, are values so eloquent that they cancel the whole maneuver on our examination. With this I absolutely do not want to say that putting your hands in the accounts of the State is something easy, but we must all reason together on the great numbers of a public budget, especially starting from the total expenditure of the State that today, in an era of digital economy, simplifications, new technologies, cannot grow every year or can not grow even in this financial maneuver as it grew until twenty years ago. Public expenditure must therefore be reasoned, serious and decisive action must be taken, as must a real reduction in the tax burden, because taxes cannot only be used to finance welfare, citizenship income. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Taxes are used to provide services to citizens. Public expenditure and fiscal pressure are key points on which we must all agree. We must now conceive of new budgetary rules having the courage to include in the Constitution, as we have done in the past with the balance of the budget, another rule, a limit to the tax burden, because we must give certainty to the Italians and taxes cannot exceed a certain level. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] These are fundamental points. Today the problem of this country is not only tax evasion, indeed the problem of this country today is the growth that is not there. Only by acting on this can we regain confidence in our tax system, the desire to do, to build and to create something. In my opinion, it is on growth that we must invest, which is the only way to restart our country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u14	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u15	Mr President, my colleague Damiani has just mentioned this and I too would like to take a step back, because I have heard many times in the replies from my colleagues in the majority that safeguard clauses are a legacy of Salvini and that it is all Salvini's fault. Honestly, I wonder, but if Salvini was gone all of a sudden, many people wouldn't really know what to say. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; the fact that there is Salvini seems to represent the existence in life of a certain majority. My colleague Damiani had already begun, but I would like to return - because I think this operation serves all the truth - to the birth of the safeguard clauses, in that distant 2011 when, for example, in the final considerations of Governor Draghi's Bank of Italy... [[Brusio.]] I think it interests everyone, so we understand how they were born and no one makes mistakes anymore and no longer reconstructs with imagination. [[Call the president back.]] I was saying, in the final considerations of Governor Draghi's Bank of Italy on 31 May 2011, among other things, the following was written: The management of the public budget has been prudent (...) the necessary corrections in Italy are lower than the necessary corrections in the other countries of the European Union. Even more positive was the judgment given by the European Council in June. Moreover, given that the public accounts of a large country cannot vary in negative and even dramatically in a few days, it is reasonable to ask a few questions about what happened on August 5, when the ECB and Banca d'Italia sent to the Government of the Italian Republic a letter containing the ultimative request of very strong "corrections" of budget, penalty - in case of not timely response (by August 8) - the threat of sending default the Italian public debt. In a normal scenario, governments must not threaten the Central Bank; in the case it was the Central Bank that, violating every rule, threatened a Government. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, there is a very intolerable buzz. RIVOLTA, minority rapporteur. What's the reason for all this? It was a reason that came to be dramatically evident this year: the structural and permanent crisis of the great German and French banks. Then the crisis was on credit to Greece. The injection of 200 billion "European aid" for Greece's losses was obviously not enough (there were already also other derivatives) to do so. Moreover, in the spring of 2011 the use of the Saving States Fund (suggested by Italy in 2008) was assumed to save not only the States but also the banks. The Italian Government imposed the condition that the contribution to the Fund, in case of use for bank bailouts, was not calculated on the basis of GDP (as is right for the function saves States), but calculated on the bank risk: Germany and France were at risk on Greece for 200 billion, Italy for only 20 billion. The solution proposed to Italy determined very strong negative reactions not only because it exponentially increased the burden on the public budgets of Germany and France, but also because it highlighted the actual origin of the crisis, which was not so much related to public finances, having rather cause in a deep crisis of the banking system, a crisis that was absolutely not wanted to be highlighted (and that still for a long time, and for the same reasons, still tends to hide). It is in what I have just highlighted that there is both the origin before the sly recited on television by a couple of European leaders at the press conference, and the otherwise unjustified parallel to unleash spreads against Italy. In order to avoid the default threatened by the letter of August 5, the Government issued the so-called decree of Ferragosto. The international press called it perfect. In fact, given all the above, the decree was not enough to block the political pressure necessary to force Italy towards the hypothesis of an abnormal financing of the fund saves banks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We remember that well. Therefore, the safeguard clause was not an Italian invention, but a European imposition. However, with a specific, a difference between what happened in August 2011 and what happened in the following eight years. In the Italian wording (August-September 2008) the fulfilment of the tax clause was absolutely programmatic and generic and however subordinate to the hypothesis of not achieving other and vast budgetary objectives. In fact, in the event of insufficient achievement of these objectives, the text suggested that tax expenditure or indirect tax rates, including excise duties or VAT, could be remodulated. In October-November 2011, the Government entered crisis, interrupting its action in public finance. It is only with the first decree of the Monti Government that the VAT clause appears as then it has been iterated in the long eight successive years. A set of binding and encrypted clauses for amounts and dates. It is also perhaps the case to remember that, in addition to having imported from Europe and mounted on the spot a VAT clause of an imperative type, as since then, one of the first acts of the Monti Government was that for which the Italian Government allowed the calculation of the Italian contribution to the fund saves banks not on the basis of risk, but on the basis of GDP, so that the crisis against which Italy was totally foreign (...) was first charged to Italy, as if it were a crisis of Italian public finance, then to be - by mockery - put on the account of Italy burdening it - in addition to the clauses - for an amount absolutely excessive. This - so that it remains in the act - is a written by the then Minister Tremonti, who rightly reconstructs something that, instead, is brought back in the most wrong way, attributing faults to those who do not have it. However, VAT clauses have been sterilized and any government should have done so. Of course, it was a heavy bill, but the safeguard clauses were sterilized last year too. As I have already said and I keep repeating, the problem is that this will be an incredibly difficult year. In fact, if colleagues in the majority have explained to us all the positive features of what is contained in the maneuver, they cannot deny that there is still very little talk of growth this year, as Mr Damiani said before. This place leads many to get away from real life, not to listen to people stopping you in stores or stopping at gazebos; but the perception is that life will be complicated for families and businesses and traders, as I have already said in the minority relationship. Let's remember the lack of extension on the dry coupon, but not only; the increase of excise duties on fuels next year: it will be a blast for everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Damiani]] But we don't say that? Are we the only ones to say that? That's really the difference. I repeat this because people, not only those who vote for my party, but the people I meet, have a negative perception. There is no positive expectation last year; there is no hope of reconstructing something, because, despite Europe's benevolent assent and support, that is what there is. This year there will be more taxes and so next year. Mr Stefano said that there will finally be investment in the South. I, who live 15 kilometres from the border with Switzerland, say that investment is well coming, Italy must go on all together; however, these investments must be certain in the times and in the realization, because otherwise they do not work. We cannot stop, this country must leave, but with another kind of mentality. I thank everyone: the offices of the Commission, of the Assembly, the legislative offices of all the groups that have worked in an incredible way. We have the impression that we are phenomena, but let us remember that in the House we will practically vote on only confidence and in my opinion this is a crazy vulnus. Do we want to forget that? And it is not the fault of the minority, but of the majority who fought for twenty-five days to agree on the content of the maneuver and forced the opposition to a marathon in which at certain times even lucidity failed. Fortunately, there is still a good climate in the 5th Commission, there is mutual esteem and respect, but the conditions under which we have worked are absolutely not acceptable. Not only have you predicted content that we do not share, but we should also compliment you, the salami and consider you the heroes of the state. We refuse to say it, because we do not believe it. We do not believe in this maneuver and strongly contest the ways in which you have carried it forward. Finally, I would like to mention one issue, because it is an example of how the majority of people have also experienced crazy contradictions. The majority is made up of PD and Italia Viva, who started the reform of the Third sector and civil service years ago. We are talking about thousands of young people living an incredibly formative experience and who, thanks to this, most of the time manage to find work in the first six months since the end of the service. Those who launched this reform virtually halved the funds for civil service and this is an incredible contradiction; in my opinion it would have been appropriate to use the 100 million envisaged by the amendment at my first signature to rebuild the universal civil service fund (but beware that universally it has really little). Why don't you let the things that work go on? Evidently because you don't believe it and therefore you have incredible contradictions within you. I take only a few passages from the speeches made to say that I have heard ridicule the measure studied by the minister Centinario because he would have forced women to have three children and to stay in the agriculture sector. I am referring to the rule which provided for the transfer of land to be cultivated to families with two children who had decided to make the third; that would have been a choice, an opportunity, certainly did not want to enslave the woman! What do you say? What do you understand? It's not like that! The important thing is to throw discredit on measures that made sense. However, we will move forward and unfortunately our colleagues in the House will be able exclusively to oppose and show total dissent in a very limited way. I remind the Presidency of this because I think it is really wrong, which should not happen. In conclusion, our judgment on this manoeuvre is absolutely negative. However, we will continue to express our ideas and to present our measures, always in adherence - I remember - with what the people who live the real life tell us, so entrepreneurs, families. That is the difference: this is what we should do, although unfortunately, I regret to say, the majority of people in this House have really lost their grip on reality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u16	I call the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Castelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u17	Mr President, I have listened to the debate these days and to the replies of the rapporteurs. I think we must remember quickly the path that has led us to this point: it has brought us here the need to give answers and to prevent families from having to spend more money on increasing VAT. It would have been a lot of money and families couldn't afford it. This is the force with which we have written the present maneuver, which takes its cues from the tax decree, which I recall to be an important intervention against the great evasion: let us not forget this, because this is a distinctive sign of the current Government, which has decided to rebalance the state's taxation, recovering resources that, as they return to the state's coffers, will allow to reduce the fiscal pressure of the Irpef. We have already allocated resources for this objective and I think that the debate on this will open up in detail in the coming months, in which the Government and Parliament will have to decide how to change the tax burden, the Irpef, and we will have to do it together. Rebalancing taxation is a strong political choice, which may not be pleasing because political forces, especially the more ideological ones, have different ideas, but that is exactly why financial manoeuvre is being made. To decide where the resources that are recovered from citizens' taxes go to finance services: this is the objective of budgetary maneuvering. In addition to the fight against evasion and intervention on taxation, there are then the many resources to the municipalities, another great distinctive sign of this maneuver: it seems almost obvious to us, but it is not and I want to remind you, because to really distinguish this Government there is precisely the fact that it has given resources back to the local authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are talking about 33 billion more years to the municipalities, which will be able to restart the investments that have not been made and this is GDP. First someone said that innovation does not make GDP: well, this Government does not believe so, so much so that it has set up a Ministry dedicated to this. Innovation is that piece that allows us to restart the country with a digital system: I hope that there are no surprises compared to the decisions taken by the Budget Commission on the subject of digitalization and digital innovation, so much so that there is a dedicated chapter in this maneuver. Let me also remind you, because I believe that the climate is fundamental, especially at a political moment like this, that the past few weeks have been important: we have worked together, taking decisions on some major issues that we all wanted to put at the centre, majority and opposition: these are important issues that we had not heard of for many years. (at 10.30 a.m.) (Following Mr Castelli, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance). I am referring to the right to university study, to the theme of socially useful work (LSU), to territorial continuity, made in a combo, on the one hand the social tariff, on the other the territorial continuity, measures which, looked at as a whole, give the sense of clearly different political forces, which jointly decide how to confront each other and move forward. And still the bags for the residents, the resources on the fight against gender violence. All the measures we have looked into and, as a Government, together with you, Parliament, we have decided to put our face on, just as we have decided to give an answer to the six million women suffering from endometriosis by setting up a dedicated fund. I want to reiterate that it had never been done: yet, it would have been very simple. We have done this together with the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Again, resources for the cancer register. Parliament's improved work was not obvious. It was not taken for granted with fast times; it was not taken for granted in an atmosphere of heated political debate. Then, the theme of enterprises which, perhaps, is the most difficult subject. Every force complains, when it stands in opposition, because the majority do not push enough on growth. This Parliament, together with the Government, has succeeded in reforming and improving a measure like Industry 4.0, in a commitment to innovation, looking at data and improving what has been done in previous years, and has succeeded in adding apprenticeships, the dual system, the invoice discount, improved compared to last year. Measures in the requests made by all Parliament's groups. It is not true that we have complicated life with this maneuver. I would like to mention that part of the maneuver which relates to the approximation of taxation by local authorities. I would like to remind you that we have reduced the occupation of public land on streetwalkers with an hourly measurement. It wasn't a short measure. We did a great job with the professional associations and we did it. What is clearly divergent from some forces is the subject of environmental conversion. There are differences in this Parliament. This government has chosen to allocate many resources to environmental conversion and green investment. And there weren't many requests for modification, for example, on the article of the green new deal. The other issue is taxation, of which I have already said, with resources already made, which will see work done together. I want to close by saying that I have heard the word contradiction. I believe that it is not a contradiction that is present here, within the Government, the majority and the opposition. It's a comparison. And confrontation is a value, it is a spur to do better every day and obliges us to reason and overcome personal beliefs. This is the objective with which this Government, very humbly, has worked together with the whole of Parliament to bring this maneuver home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u18	We now come to the examination of the articles of the draft law, in the text proposed by the Commission. Pursuant to Rule 129 (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the examination of the articles of the second section takes precedence over the examination of the first section. Following the vote on the articles of the second section, the articles of the first section of the draft law and the amendments thereto will be discussed. The Note of Variations will then be put to the vote and the draft budget as a whole will be voted on. We shall therefore examine the second section of the draft law, Articles 102 to 119. Pursuant to Rule 129 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, only drafters of agendas and amendments to present them will be able to intervene on each article; therefore, rapporteurs and representative of the Government to give their opinions. With the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are included in the draft law. We proceed to the examination of the articles of the second section of the bill. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 102. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 103, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u19	Mr President, Amendment 103.1 concerns the return of the 100 million civil service fund for each of the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. As I said before, the reality of civil service is incredibly important, first of all for boys and girls who can have a very formative experience not only in terms of work done but as a civil commitment. In fact, the sectors in which civil service is carried out are civil protection, cultural bodies, social cooperatives and municipalities. For example, there are librarian poles, especially in the less populous areas, which without the work of these boys and girls could not guarantee the service. In the same way, many bodies and municipalities are lucky enough to have the support offered by the work of these boys and girls who support services such as the transport of disabled people or other social services, engaging in the field of youth policies. It is therefore a very important aspect. There is the possibility to carry out the civil service also in the environmental field and can be done both in Italy and abroad. Removing this possibility would be incredibly damaging, a missed opportunity. These resources must be found. Among other things, according to statistics, the people who carry out the civil service have an approach that then leads them, in the future, to take care of the public thing. There are many people who, having carried out the civil service for conscientious objection, have then embraced the political career precisely for the passion and commitment in favor of the community that have breathed and learned thanks to civil service. Halving something that you wanted to become universal is a choice that I do not understand and which context strongly. Amendment 103.1, therefore, aims to restore the necessary 100 million. Think about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u20	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u21	Mr President, I am opposed to both of the amendments tabled in Rule 103.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u22	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u23	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 103.1, tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u26	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was wrong to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u27	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 103.2 tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 103. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 104. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 105. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 106. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 107. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 108. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 109, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u28	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 109, including the tables.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u29	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u30	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 109.5, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 109.6 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 109.7 tabled by Senator Pillon. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 109.Tab.8.1.5, tabled by Senator Pirovano and other senators, identical to amendment 109.Tab.8.2.5, tabled by Senator Damiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 109. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 110. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 111. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 112. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 113. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 114, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u31	I am against Amendment 114.Tab.13.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u32	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 114.Tab.13.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u36	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the contrary opinion on Amendment 114.Tab.13.100 is not justified, since at the budgetary committee level the rapporteurs had expressed a favourable opinion on 103.Table 2.50.5/1 and the opinion was also shared by the Government. It marvels at this change of opinion between the Commission and the House. I ask the Government whether the opinion is in accordance with the rapporteur, because I have not heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u37	The Government has already given its opinion. VOICES FROM THE FIBP-UDC GROUP: No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He gave his opinion and it seemed to me that he was in agreement with the rapporteur. I would ask the representative of the Government to give his opinion again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u38	The opinion on amendment 114.Tab.13.100 is - I repeat - in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u39	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 114.Tab.13.100, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 114. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 115. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 116. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 117. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 118. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 119. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing the first section of the draft law No 1586 (Budget of the State for the financial year 2020 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022) which includes the amendments approved by the Commission in the referent and on which, having obtained the authorisation of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u41	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as in the light of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission - to which the amendment is transmitted immediately - pursuant to the combined provisions of Rules 102-a and 128, paragraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since I have to suspend the sitting, I would ask Senator Pesco, President of the 5th Commission, if you can tell me how much time you need.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u42	Mr President, I think we could meet this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u43	In the afternoon? PESCO (M5S). No, the Commission meets immediately. I do not know how long it will take for the exam; I think that by noon we could I'm gonna make it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you ask for an hour and ten minutes, practically until noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u46	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask you, in relation to the text proposed by the 5th Commission and in the light of the request for confidence that has just been put forward by the Government, whether the Presidency has already assessed the inadmissibility of certain parts of the article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm getting ready to do it. CIRIANI (FdI). We would like to understand, before the 5th Commission is convened, whether there are any parties that fall due to inadmissibility, to act accordingly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I reserve the right to do so and to inform the House afterwards. CIRIANI (FdI). Following the examination of the maxi amendment by the 5th Commission? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u49	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Mr President, but innovation leads us to experiment for the first time. If you are to submit an amendment to the Commission and submit it to the Commission for its assessment, the amendment itself must already incorporate its possible actions. If it is transmitted as it is, it is the text presented by the Government and not the one hesitated by its examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, I said I'm getting ready to do it right away. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). What? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The assessment of eligibility; it seems to me that we are talking about this. This is the problem raised by Senator Ciriani. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). So the call for the 5th Commission will only take place after its evaluation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended and therefore goes to the 5th Commission for an assessment. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). That is precisely what it is, Mr President. He goes to the 5th Commission later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The 5th Commission will also assess in the light of my inadmissibility. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). But then what is the 5th Commission considering at the moment, excuse me?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u50	To ensure that we do not waste any more time, we suspend the sitting, so that there is not first the evaluation of the Budget Commission and then my determination on the inadmissibility. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.20 a.m. to declare inadmissible. So, after my statement, the file will be sent to the 5th Commission for the assessment of the case. The sitting shall be suspended until 11.20 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.36 a.m.) The session is resumed. I shall read out the inadmissibles. The Presidency examined the text of the amendment entirely replacing the first section of the draft budget law, on which the Government announced that it wanted to raise the issue of trust. Pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Regulation, the Presidency declares inadmissible, insofar as it is unrelated to the content of the draft budget law, as defined by Article 21 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance No 196 of 2009, the following paragraphs of the amendment submitted by the Government: paragraph 74, in the matter of extraordinary commissioners; paragraph 75, in the matter of Province staff; paragraph 87, which amends the Italian decree-law so-called unblocking; paragraph 101, amending the annual competition law; paragraphs 168 to 171, in the matter of administrative justice; paragraphs 172 to 176, in the matter of accounting judiciary; paragraphs 246 to 254, in the matter of digital bill of exchange; paragraphs 311 to 313, in the matter of civic education; paragraphs 337 to 338, in the matter of cooperative credit banks; paragraphs 433 to 436, in the matter of computerization INAIL; paragraphs 437 to 441, in the matter of digital agenda of public administration; paragraphs 443 to 460, in the case of further measures for innovation; paragraphs 462 to 464, in the matter of provisions for innovation; paragraph 497, in the matter of the Ministry's of law: In particular, to the peripheral organs up to and including point (e) and from the words: "Article 9 implementation" until the end of the subparagraph; paragraphs 791 to 795, with provisions on hemp. [[Live and sustained applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups, whose senators stand up.]] Please, I beg you to sit down. The 5th Permanent Commission is therefore authorised to convene to examine the text of the maxi amendment submitted by the Government, taking into account the inadmissibility of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u53	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Rule 76- bis of the Rules of Procedure refers, in the first paragraph, to the draft law of government initiative and paragraph 2, states that it is impossible to propose amendments of government initiative which involve new or higher expenditure or decrease of revenue and are not accompanied by the technical report drawn up in the terms referred to in paragraph 1. Therefore, the amendment that has been tabled may be accepted if it is accompanied by a technical report. Mr President, I have not taken into account the number of paragraphs that have been missed, but it is clear that the text of the maxi amendment is different, after its absolutely lawful amendments, from the text deposited by the Government. I therefore believe that we need a technical accompanying report. Let me give you an explanatory example. You have rightly stated that paragraphs 791 to 795, in which the question of cannabis is defined, is inadmissible, and is also linked to a tax linked to production and marketing. Mr Marcucci (PD). That's not true! Read the text! Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). So if there is a loss of revenue, the technical report must take it and receive it. I say this for an explanatory reason, Mr President, because I do not know how many of the paragraphs you have raised have financial implications. The Government must therefore arrange and submit, together with the new version of the amendment, a new technical report, in the absence of which the mini or maxi amendment is inadmissible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u54	I believe that this is the path that the Budget Commission will take together with the Government, because the technical report will be prepared by the Government as soon as possible. We will now see the time to proceed in this direction. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u57	MANTERO (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to reply to Mr Calderoli, who has just spoken, to tell him that the coverage had not been quantized in relation to the amendment on industrial hemp, which did not affect the sum of the covers. It is therefore not relevant from the point of view of the technical report. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Despite this, however, there has been talk of a cover problem and I speak just to say that we are very sorry about your decision. Although we know that the Presidency's decision on the admissibility of the amendments is unappellable, we are very sorry - I repeat - for the decision on the amendment on industrial hemp, also in view of what some Members have said, which has shown, once again, a certain anachronism and profound ignorance. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups, Senator De Petris and from the government benches. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u58	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u59	Go on, Senator Mantero. MANTERO (M5S). I would like to say to those colleagues who recently celebrated the expulsion of this amendment with applause that the amending proposal concerns not drugs, but simply farmers. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI groups and the government benches]] There are 3,000 small Italian companies that do not relocate - our climate, fortunately, cannot be relocated - and therefore produce in Italy and give jobs to 12,000 people. The applause of colleagues was then made in front of 12,000 families who will not be sure that they can continue to have an income, because there is no certainty that they can continue to sell what they are producing. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups and from the government benches. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The applause you have made, colleagues, is a slap you have slapped in the face of Italian agriculture and for this reason I would ask you to be ashamed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator De Vecchis]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u60	Please, colleagues, I wish I could listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u61	MANTERO (M5S). I would like to address you, Mr President. Since, unfortunately, the political part that has celebrated with an overwhelming applause the expulsion of the amendment is also its political part, I would ask you to show that your choice has been free from any pressure from your political part of your membership. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u62	Let Senator Mantero finish, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u63	MANTERO (M5S). At least, I would ask you to schedule the vote, at the first appropriate sitting, on the urgent request signed by 50 senators to work on the amendment of the Industrial Hemp Act, which I filed in July. I wonder what urgency it is if we have not yet voted on it in December since July. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups]] Therefore, I would ask you to make a commitment to put the urgent request to the vote at the first useful sitting to amend the law on industrial hemp and to give hope to farmers! [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u64	Senator Mantero, I have already explained several times about the too many demands that have been made on my decision on inadmissibility. I am sorry that you, Senator Mantero, refer to a decision that should be - as you said - free from political conditioning. I would like to point out to you that all my decisions are free from political conditioning, because the decision of the President of the Senate is purely technical and, therefore, independent of political issues. I don't go into the matter. If you consider the issue important to the majority, submit a bill. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group]] LONARDO (FIBP-UDC). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You said that it was a question of harming the farmers' motives. It's not like that. TAVERNA (M5S). Of course it is! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I want to explain that this is an amendment of an orderly nature and it could not be otherwise. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] (M5S). That's not true! PIRRO (M5S). It's an excise duty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, Senator Mantero, the scope of law n. 242 of 2016 extends, providing for the lawfulness of the sale of hemp. First, cultivation was planned. So, for farmers, one looked at the cultivation. This is what Law 242 of 2016. In this way, extending to the sale and not limiting to the cultivation, as laid down in law n. 242 of 2016, that you well know, they come to define in a completely innovative way the conducts allowed by the order with a general norm. Moreover, the additional innovative profile concerns the indication of the amount of active substance that is defined, in the presence of which there is no illice. Therefore, this provision, in turn, also renews with respect to the conclusions of the recent judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. I gave the explanation, so there's no hit and no answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u67	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that cultivation... RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Stop! [[Comments from the M5S Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). Shut up! AIROLA (M5S). It is important to make this clear on the order of business in order to complete Mr Mantero's statement. [[Brusio in the Chamber. Recalls of the President]] The judgment of the Constitutional Court refers not to values but to effects. Now, in law n. 242 of 2016 that we know well we talk about the plant in its completeness. Moreover, there are hundreds of farmers in the Padana valley who voted for the League, who were undoubtedly expecting support. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Industrial hemp - as you well know, and as my colleagues know, they applaud: "We don't sell drugs to our kids" - it doesn't actually have drug-addictive power but it is used in construction, textiles and many other sectors. It is a plant that Italy has known for decades. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The marcite, in fact, were practiced from Piedmont to South Italy: it was the same culture. Therefore, his position will be technical, but he has a strong political influence, so much so that he has triggered the applause of people who are not ignorant but at least in bad faith or uninformed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] In my conversation with her, at the desk... [[Comments of Senator Pillon]] Senator Pillon doesn't know what he's talking about. I never interrupted you! There's no point in playing dumb. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In my speech to you, Mr President, you told me that the three quarters of the amendments would have to be cut. Well, this guy was one who could go back to the ones you could have cut, and he didn't. I don't know why, but I imagine for political pressure from the center-right, and this is very serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u70	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, a lot of inadmissibility assessments have also been made in the course of the Commission's work. But, if we believe in democracy and the rules, the third-party presidencies in the evaluation I do not think can be discussed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The revision and re-evaluation of a decision may be requested, but the third party's decision cannot be called into question, otherwise there are no more rules. On this point, Mr Calderoli's speech calling for the technical report. Of course, the 5th Commission cannot examine the measure without the resulting technical report, because it can clearly have changed the structure of the government, but I believe that the government itself is preparing to do so and the Presidency has already responded to this. As for the assessment of ignorance, everyone keeps his ignorance [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] As a result, I do not feel touched at all; I personally do not mean cannabis, but - for example - I can well say that the amendment in question was not encrypted and, as a result, it does not determine any coverage or expenditure. I know about this part. I would simply ask that the assessment of the substance be done in the appropriate place. The assessment of the substance, being inadmissible, must be made in a draft law, on which Parliament will express itself. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u73	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on two issues. As far as the first is concerned, I would like to join in the chorus of Members' voices with respect to the technical file which, in our view, should be provided before the Commission meets. The second question concerns inadmissibility. I asked you to provide us with this before the 5th Commission was sitting. On the other hand, we welcome - contrary to what our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement have done - the statement you made in relation to hemp, and not because we want to drag the Senate presidency into political or party issues, but because the inadmissibility of the amendment is clear to those who have had the patience and humility to read the papers, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, which declared the drug reform unacceptable within a decree-law that did not originally provide for that issue. It is also clear to those who have read the judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections of July this year, which has declared lawful only the production for agricultural and industrial purposes of hemp and certainly not its sale, sale or marketing. Therefore, when someone in this House insults colleagues by calling them and calling them ignorant, they should first examine their consciences and see whether they are ignorant or not. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] If, however, we want to assess the political aspect of this affair, I believe that you have avoided a bad figure thanks to the presidency of the Senate, because you would have voted on a page a law that provides for the taxation of sugar because it hurts the legalization of cannabis because instead it does good and produces jobs. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is the way out of the crisis that you obviously have in mind. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] : create jobs through the cultivation of cannabis. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] We will then have cocaine because even cocaine, if legalized, could guarantee many jobs, thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs. Do we still want to go on like this? [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] Have the courage to present a text in this Parliament and in this Senate House on the legalisation or liberalisation of drugs and we will compare. You chose the shortcut of the night amendment in the Commission, because you thought we would close our eyes to this shame. Unfortunately for you this was not the case, as far as we are concerned and also as far as the presidency of the Senate is concerned. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u76	BOTTICS (M5S). He asked the government to intervene! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I only speak to bring the House back in the direction of working in the interests of our country. We need to proceed... GARRUTI (M5S). The Russian! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Drug addict! [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u77	I would ask the House to behave correctly towards everyone. SANTILLO (M5S). Senator La Russa offended a colleague! LANZI (M5S). You can't call another co-worker drugged! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone expresses their opinions without transcendence. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] Now let's finish Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would also ask you to listen to me on the management of this House. The first to create situations of tension and embarrassment are two of his Vice-Presidents. So, it gets hard to work. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] However, I do not want to talk about this, Mr President. We need to go ahead with the work and you have indicated a path. I do not go into the substance of his statements of inadmissibility, because they are his authority and, among other things, there is no right of appeal. I do not understand the ratio to some of these amendments, but I take note of your decision and I believe that we must move forward with the work. I therefore ask the Budget Commission to meet as soon as possible and then to be able to proceed with the work of this House. We have made commitments unanimously, responsibly, all the leaders of the majority and, above all, of the minority, an attitude which I have greatly appreciated. But now we must live up to those commitments and proceed with our work. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u80	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, I am also speaking on the question of hemp, which respects the rules and roles of our Republic and our democracy. I take note of your choice. However, I want to reiterate with respect to cannabis sativa that, since it is allowed to grow it, it is also allowed to sell it: this is the line dictated by the VI criminal section of the Cassation that, with a judgment filed on 31 January 2019, established it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes]] So, here's a real green new deal. We're talking about biomass, we're talking about CBD and people talking about drugs are just trying to feed prejudice. That's right. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes]] With the amendment that bears my first signature we have not modified anything that is written in the laws: Law No 242 of 2016 speaks of a maximum value of THC not exceeding 0.6 per cent and a circular of the Ministry of the Interior of July 2018 speaks of 0.5 per cent. We have attested to values already present and very precautionary. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u81	Colleagues, I will only admit two more speeches on this subject and then we will close, because we really need to continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u84	[[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'AZ, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Senate technically on behalf of all communities of rehabilitation from addictions working throughout Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'AZ, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] , and the Italian families for avoiding the shame of the drug-dealing state envisaged in an economic maneuver of this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'AZ, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] So, thank you. And, if some of my colleagues put the passion they put on reeds for real agriculture, Italy would be a healthier country. Good work to all and thank you again, President. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'AZ, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u86	With your intervention, we close. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u87	[[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You can't afford these surgeries!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u88	Three exponents of the Movimento 5 Stars spoke, two exponents of... [[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] Frankly, if one speaks out of the microphone, I do not hear it, no matter how good the acoustics of this House are. Please, Senator Ronzulli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u89	Mr President, I would simply like to ask whether I have missed a debate on cannabis in the calendar because, if so, we all sign up to speak, since three speeches have been made by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] If then there is a debate that I have missed in the calendar of our work, we all sign up to speak; otherwise, the debate must end now. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u90	He asked for the intervention of Undersecretary Misiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u91	Mr President, for the sake of the continuation of the work and to reassure Senator Calderoli - as Senator Mantero has already pointed out - I would like to point out that the deleted paragraphs with provisions on hemp have no effect from the point of view of public finance. In the list of all the rules declared inadmissible, those likely to determine public finance effects are a very limited number, as any of you can see by scrolling Annex 3. For this reason, we do not see the need for a new technical report. The General Accounting of the State will produce to the Commission a text of the old technical report, barring the rules that produce financial effects, which are really few among those declared inadmissible. The part of Annex 3 relating to the rules in question will also be deleted and, of course, the Note of variation will only take account of the rules declared inadmissible. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u92	So, from the government's words, I understand that they're all sort of rules, as you wanted to prove.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u95	We can't fight back, Senator Calderoli. What are you going to do about it? Mr Marcucci (PD). President, then let us talk too! Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Misiani's words confirmed that I was right about my request. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] He has confirmed to us that one party does not have any implications and that others have at least done so; an up-to-date report will therefore be prepared to be forwarded to the Commission. I would like to know when the change in the technical report will be available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u96	I'm asking the government if you're gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u97	I think it's a matter of a few tens of minutes. The General Accounting Office is quickly in a position to prepare the barred version of the technical report, because - I repeat for the benefit of the House - I believe that there are two or three rules that could have effect. Therefore, it does not take much time to undermine the part of the technical report likely to have consequences in relation to declarations of inadmissibility. I therefore believe that there are all the conditions for continuing the work in the Budget Commission, as discussed above.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u98	Mr Pesco, can you tell us how long the Commission needs to work? PESCO (M5S). At least until 2 p.m., Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the work. (The sitting was suspended at 12.09 p.m. and resumed at 12.15 p.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I warn the House that work will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.16 p.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.) The sitting is resumed, albeit for a short time. He asked the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u99	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u100	Please let President Pesco speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u101	PESCO (M5S). I said everything. These are precious moments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u102	His voice has been covered. Do you think in an hour you can finish or do you think it takes more time? If so, it is better to ask now, rather than proceed to tear.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u103	We also need to be able to do this quickly, so by joining the two requirements, we should be able to be here by 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u104	In the light of the information provided by President Pesco, our work will resume - at least we hope - at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u106	You asked for a few seconds before I declared the sitting suspended, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u107	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). I correct you: you noticed before you declared the sitting suspended. If the Commission needs to work until 4 p.m., it is useless for us to resume the work of this House at 4 p.m., given the technical time that will be necessary after that. I therefore suggest that we postpone the recovery to 16.30-17.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u108	As you have certainly heard, I asked President Pesco if he felt that the sitting could be resumed at 4 p.m. It is not our chance to assess President Pesco better, who told us that he thinks he can do it at that time. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.04 p.m.) The session is resumed. He asked the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u109	Mr President, the work in the Commission has been completed. We are finishing with the textual drafting of the opinion, which will be forwarded within a few minutes. If you think so, we can continue with the work of this House pending the text from the Commission, which gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u110	But we still don't have the opinion. In your opinion, how long do you think it takes to get there formally? PESCO (M5S). 4:30 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall therefore suspend the sitting until 4.35 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.05 a.m. and resumed at 16.37 a.m.) In addition to the Presidency's ruling on amendment 1,9000, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 474 is also declared inadmissible, since it is essentially the same as paragraph 311, already voted in two partially identical texts by the Budget Commission during the examination of Articles 28-novies and 47-e of the Commission's text. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the amendment entirely replacing the articles of the first section of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u111	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined amendment 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, noted that: - the amounts in the Table A with the provision of the special funds of current part are aligned to the conditions laid down by the General Accounting of the State, for the purpose of the positive verification of the said amendment, - the amounts of the fund referred to in Article 1, paragraph 200, of the Law of 23 December 2014, n. 190, are aligned to the conditions laid down by the General Accounting of the State, for the purpose of the positive verification of the said amendment, expresses, as far as the competence is concerned, opinion not precluded, with the following conditions, formulated pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution: - in paragraph 8, the words "after the date of 1 January 2020" are replaced by the following: "in the year 2020"; - paragraph 14 is replaced by the following: "In the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a fund to be allocated with a budget of 435 million euros for 2020, of 880 million euros for 2021, of 934 million euros for 2022, of 1,045 million euros for 2023, of 1,061 million euros for 2024, of 1,512 million euros for 2025, of 1,513 million euros for 2026, of 1,672 million euros for each of the years 2027 to 2032 and of 1,700 million euros for each of the years 2033 and 2034 is established.'; - in paragraph 72, in paragraph 1-a, replace the last sentence by the following: "For the same purposes, the total expenditure of 480 million euros is authorised for the years 2020 to 2024, of which 40 million euros for the year 2020, 60 million euros for the year 2021, 80 million euros for the year 2022, 120 million euros for the year 2023 and 180 million euros for the year 2024." and delete paragraph 1-b; - in paragraph 100 add, at the end, the following period: "From the implementation of this subparagraph no new or higher public finance charges shall arise and the financial resources available to existing legislation shall be provided.'; - in paragraph 103, after the word 'indemnification', the following shall be inserted:'reimbursement of expenditure'; - paragraph 110 shall be replaced by the following: "The Department for the geological service of Italy of ISPRA, before starting the activities of completion of the official geological map of Italy, makes known in a special act which are the areas today not yet covered of the new cartography CARG in order to plan the works, for each of the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, for the completion of the entire project, to the limit of the resources previewed from paragraph 107.'; - in paragraph 124, the last sentence is replaced by the following: "Expenditure of EUR 500,000 from the year 2020 shall be authorised as a State contribution to the costs for the start-up and operation of the International Climate Change Study and Research Centre.'; - in paragraph 128, the following period shall be added at the end: "For this purpose, the expenditure of EUR 25 million for the year 2020 shall be authorised.'; - paragraph 141 is replaced by the following: '141. At the same time as the increases referred to in paragraph 140 and within the limits of the units provided for each year, the National Firefighters' Corps is authorized to assume, by way of derogation from the ordinary hiring powers, 70 per cent of the available seats, by scrolling the ranking of the public competition to 250 places of firefighter, called by decree of the Ministry of Interior n. 676 of 18 October 2016, published in the Official Gazette, 4th special series, n. 90 of 15 November 2016, and, for the remaining 30 per cent, by resorting to the ranking formed pursuant to article 1, paragraph 295, of the law 27 December 2017, n. 205, relating to the voluntary staff of the National Firefighters' Corps.'; - replace paragraph 159 by the following: '159. In order to ensure the continuity of the supervision activity on the concessionaires of the highway network, pursuant to article 11, paragraph 5, second period, of decree-law 29 December 2011, n. 216, converted, with modifications, from the law 24 February 2012, n. 14, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is authorized to assume, in 2020, for an indefinite period, in addition to the powers assumed to legislation in force within the limits of the current organic endowment, up to fifty units of personnel of non-directional level to be framed, within the limit of twenty-eight units, in the III functional area, economic position F1, and twenty-two units in the II functional area, economic position F2, through the indication of new contests, the widening of the places put to competition or the sliding of the rankings of contests already banded. The recruitment referred to in this subparagraph shall take effect on a legal and economic basis not earlier than 1 July 2020. To this end, expenditure of EUR 887,000 for 2020 and EUR 1,773,356 from 2021 shall be authorised.'; - paragraph 162 is deleted; - paragraph 164 is replaced by the following: "164. For the strengthening of the monitoring and supervision activities related to the execution of the medium and long-term service contract with Trenitalia SpA, for the verification of the quality of the services provided to the users and for the improvement of the same is assigned to the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports the sum of 500,000 euros for each of the years 2020 to 2026. The authorization of expenditure referred to in Article 4 of Law No 538 of 24 December 1993 shall be reduced accordingly; - paragraph 165 shall be replaced by the following: "165. In Article 9 of Law No 150 of 7 June 2000, the following paragraph is added: '6. To the employees of role in service at the press offices of the administrations referred to in paragraph 1 to whom, on the date before the entry into force of the national collective agreements of employment relative to the three years 2016-2018, the national collective agreement of journalistic work is applied for the effect of individual contracts signed on the basis of what is provided for by the specific laws of the administration of belonging, can be recognized the maintenance of the treatment in enjoyment, if more favorable, than that provided for by the aforementioned national collective agreements of work, by recognition, for the difference, of a cheque ad personam reabsorbibile, in implementation of what provided for in article 2, paragraph 3, last period, of the legislative decree n. 165 of 2001, with the modalities and measures previewed from the future national collective contracts of employment.".'; - in paragraph 180, the following period shall be added: "For this purpose, expenditure of EUR 251,000 shall be authorised from 2020.'; - paragraph 182 is deleted; - paragraph 256, after the words 'Minister for Economic Development', the following shall be inserted: 'in compliance with accounting rules'; - paragraph 294 shall be replaced by the following: '294. In Article 11 of Decree-Law 30 April 2019, No. 35, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 60 of 25 June 2019: a) to paragraph 1 replace the words "of the regions, within the level of the financing of the standard national health needs to which the State contributes and without prejudice to the financial compatibility, on the basis of the regional guidelines" with the following: "of each Region and Autonomous Province of Trento and Bolzano, within the level of the financing of the standard national health needs to which the State contributes and without prejudice to the financial compatibility, on the basis of the guidelines defined by each Region and Autonomous Province of Trento and Bolzano"; (b) in paragraph 3, after the words "The Regions," insert the following "and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano"; (c) in paragraph 4, after the words "The Regions," insert the following "and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano"; (d) paragraph 4-a is deleted.'; - paragraph 358 is replaced by the following: "358. In order to strengthen the performance of the activity to completion of the start of the National Certification Assessment Centre (CVCN) of the additional functions attributed to the Ministry of Economic Development in the matter of laboratory certification, technical regulations and supervision on the safety of products and production processes, of crisis of enterprise, of extraordinary administrations, of litigation and international arbitration in the matter of energy, of supervision and control of the correct use of the frequencies, the Ministry of economic development is authorized to ban public competitions and, consequently, to assume for an indefinite time, in addition to the 77 units already authorized pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law 21 September 2019, n. 105, converted, with modification, by law 18 November 2019, n. 133, and by derogation from article 6, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, and article 34- bis of Legislative Decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, and subsequent amendments, article 4, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law 31 August 2013, n. 101, converted, with modifications, by law 30 October 2013, n. 125, and subsequent modifications, as well as provided in article 66 of the unit-law of 25 June 2008, n. To this end, expenditure of euro 3,788,477 for 2020, of euro 11,365,430 for 2021, of euro 18,942,383 for 2022 and of euro 22,730,859 from 2023 shall be authorised.'; - paragraph 360 is deleted; - in paragraph 364, the following words are deleted: 'From the year 2020'; - in paragraph 365, the following period shall be added: "For the purposes of simplification for access to the exemption referred to in this paragraph, the same exemption shall be verified and verified, within the framework of the resources available to current legislation, through the functionalities of the National Registry of the assisted persons referred to in Article 62-b of Legislative Decree No 82 of 7 March 2005, or, in the more than its realization, the Registry of the assisted persons of the Health Card System, on the basis of the information made available by the Ministry of Justice.'; - paragraph 513 is deleted; - in paragraph 521, the following words are added: 'to a number of doctors not exceeding 820 units per year.'; - in paragraph 522, finally, the following words are added: "with a conventional relationship.'; - Paragraph 554 is deleted; - paragraphs 559 and 560 are replaced by the following: "559. In order to simplify the recruitments referred to in article 1, paragraph 446, of the law 30 December 2018, n. 145, the public administrations using the socially useful workers referred to in article 2, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 28 February 2000, n. 81, and article 3, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 7 August 1997, n. 280, as well as of the workers already covered by the repealed article 7 of the legislative decree 1 December 1997, n. 468, and of the workers engaged in activities of public utility, also by means of fixed-term employment contracts or contracts of coordinated and continuous collaboration as well as by other contractual types, can proceed to the assumption for an indefinite time, also with contracts of part-time work, also by way of derogation, for the year 2020 only as supernumerary workers, to the organic endowment, to the plan of staff requirements and to the assumptions provided by the current legislation limited to the resources referred to in paragraph 560-a, first period. 560. From the year 2020, the resources referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1156, letter g-a of the Law of 27 December 2006, n. 296, have increased by EUR 9.00 000 per year. 560-a. For the purposes referred to in paragraph 559, the administrations concerned shall rely on the resources referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1156, letter g- bis, of the Law of 27 December 2006, n. 296 broken down by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Public Administration, in agreement with the Minister for Labour and Social Policies and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to be issued, after agreement at the Unified Conference, by 31 March 2020. By 31 January 2020, the above-mentioned administrations shall apply to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department of Civil Service. For the purpose of the permanent employment of workers engaged in public utility activities, the Regions shall ensure through the full use of the resources allocated to this purpose by regional laws in accordance with Article 33 of Decree-Law No 34 of 30 April 2019, converted, with amendments, by law no. 58.'; - paragraph 561 is replaced by the following: "561. In order to support the early access to the pension for professional journalists enrolled in the INPGI dependent on the publishing companies of daily newspapers, periodical newspapers and national press agencies, in application of the discipline referred to in article 37, paragraph 1, letter b), of the law 5 August 1981, n. 416, and subsequent modifications and additions, is authorized the expenditure in the limit of 7 million euros for the year 2020 and 3 million euros for each of the years from 2021 to 2027, which constitutes a ceiling of expenditure, with consequent increase of the limits of expenditure referred to in article 41- bis, paragraph 7, of the decree-law 30 December 2008, n. 207, converted with amendments from the law 27 February 2009, n. 14. The annual burden borne by the INPGI for such early retirement benefits shall be reimbursed to the institution in accordance with Article 37, paragraph 1-a, of the same Law No 416 of 1981. The burden arising from the implementation of this paragraph shall be covered by a corresponding reduction of the Plurality and Innovation Fund, as referred to in Law 26 October 2016, no. 198.'; - paragraph 563 is replaced by the following: "563. Limited to the years 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, by way of derogation from the contributory requirement referred to in Article 37, paragraph 1 (a) of Law No 416 of 5 August 1981, and subsequent amendments and additions, may have access to the pension treatment, with contributory seniority of at least thirty-five years in the compulsory general insurance for invalidity, old age and survivors of contributory seniority, polygraph workers of daily newspapers and periodicals printing companies and of publishers of daily newspapers, magazines and national press agencies, who have submitted to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, on the date from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2023, plans for reorganization or restructuring in the presence of crises, pursuant to Article 25- bis, paragraph 3, letter (a) of Legislative Decree 14 September 2015, n. 148. The pension treatment referred to in this subparagraph is granted under the expenditure limit of EUR 26.7 million for the year 2020, EUR 44.6 million for the year 2021, EUR 51.2 million for the year 2022, EUR 54.7 million for the year 2023, EUR 50.8 million for the year 2024, EUR 33.3 million for the year 2025, EUR 19.3 million for the year 2026,EUR 1.3 million for the year 2027, which constitutes expenditure ceiling. The INPS shall monitor the retirement applications submitted by the entities referred to in this subparagraph in accordance with the order of subscription of the relevant procedural agreement with the competent institution. Where the examination of the applications submitted results in the achievement, even in prospective terms, of the expenditure limits laid down for the implementation of this paragraph, the INPS shall not consider further applications for retirement. The pension treatment shall start on the first day of the month following the month of submission of the application, after termination of the employment relationship. Subjects referred to in this paragraph shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 12, paragraphs 12-a to 12-d, of Decree-Law No 78 of 31 May 2010, converted, with amendments, by Law No 122, 30 July 2010, in the matter of adaptation to life expectancy. The burden deriving from the implementation of this paragraph is provided for 6.1 million euros for the year 2020, 10.2 million euros for the year 2021, 11.7 million euros for the year 2022, 12.5 million euros for the year 2023, 11.6 million euros for the year 2024, 7.6 million euros for the year 2025, 4.4 million euros for the year 2026, 0.3 million euros for the year 2027, through corresponding reduction of the Fund for pluralism and innovation, referred to in Law 26 October 2016, n. 198.'; - paragraph 579 is replaced by the following: "579. In order to ensure a support to the income of employees from enterprises engaged in marine fishing, including the workers members of the cooperatives of small fishing referred to in Law n. 250 of 13 March 1958, during the period of suspension of the working activity deriving from non-mandatory temporary cessation measures took place during 2020, the resources referred to in article 1, paragraph 346, fourth period, of Law n. 232 of 11 December 2016, have increased by 2,5 million euros for the year 2021. By decree of the Minister of Labour and Social Policies, in agreement with the Minister of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, the arrangements for the payment of the allowance referred to in this paragraph shall be governed.'; - paragraphs 611 and 612 are replaced by the following: "611. In the case of amendments to the State rules on the state's tax liabilities, including own derived taxes, which could have effects on the finance of the Trentino-Alto Adige Region and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, procedures for monitoring the financial effects are activated, by decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance, in agreement with the Minister for Regional Affairs, in order to regulate the financial relations between the State, the Region and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano.'; - in paragraph 620, paragraph 7-a, the following words are deleted: 'and local authorities receiving transfers from Regions and Autonomous Provinces not paid at the date referred to in paragraph 7-e'; - paragraph 686 is replaced by the following: "686. In the state of forecast of the Ministry of Defence is established a fund for the planning and the realization of the participations referred to in article 184, paragraph 5-a.3 and article 241-a, paragraphs 4-a and 4-g, of the legislative decree 3 April 2006, n. 152, fed from the resources referred to in paragraph 14 for an amount equal to 1 million euros for the year 2020, 5 million euros for the year 2021, 20 million euros for each of the years 2022 and 2023.'; - in paragraph 769, point (e) is deleted; - paragraph 773 is replaced by the following: "773. The authorisation of expenditure referred to in Article 135 (6) of Law No 388 of 23 December 2000, is supplemented by EUR 25 million for each of the years 2021 and 2022.'; - in paragraph 789 the following words are deleted:'rental, financial, rental and similar'; - paragraph 924 is deleted; - Table A referred to in paragraph 928 is replaced by that deposited by the Government during today's sitting and annexed to this opinion; - paragraph 929 is replaced by the following: '929'. The Fund referred to in Article 1, paragraph 200, of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014, is increased by EUR 15,189,498 for the year 2020, by EUR 46,011,123 for the year 2021, by EUR 31,454,444 for the year 2022, by EUR 201,599,290 for the year 2023, by EUR 215,491,923 for the year 2024, of EUR 167,952,895 for the year 2025, by EUR 378,644,496 for the year 2026, of EUR 336,492,531 for the year 2027, of EUR 176,504,373 for the year 2028, of EUR 176,31,770 for the year 2029, of EUR 176,037,560 for the year 2030, of EUR 175,510,748 for the year 2031, of EUR 177,283,937 for the year 2032, of EUR 177,257,125 for the year 2033 and of EUR 177,236,989 per year from 2034.'; - Paragraph 930 is replaced by the following: "930. The additional expenditure of EUR 25 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021 and EUR 26 million from 2022 is authorised for the admission of doctors to health area specialised schools.'........................................................................................................................................................................................ PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government accepts the conditions of the Budget Commission, which therefore form an integral part of Amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the first section of the draft law No 1586 - "State budget for the financial year 2020 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022". On behalf of the Government and authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval of amendment 1,9000 in the part deemed admissible by the Presidency and as amended in the light of the opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u113	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been raised about the adoption of amendment 1,9000 (correct text) tabled by the Government, which is entirely a substitute for the articles of the first section of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u114	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for letting me speak first. We will vote with conviction on this Government's confidence in the maneuver. The government and the majority, given the rather difficult situation in which the country is located from the budgetary point of view, could very well make the quiet choice to simply make the budget maneuver only and only for the sterilization of VAT and little more. No one could have blamed us for anything, but we would have guaranteed that the families would not have paid for next year about 500 euros more and would probably have been a quiet sailing. I am saying this because in the general discussion during these hours and weeks we have often been reproached for the length of the measure and its discussion. This happened because we made another choice, which was not quiet, nor was it a simple and pure operation of great economic impact (I would like to remind you, in fact, that we are talking about 23 billion euros): we wanted to try to draw, instead, a maneuver that had some ambition. The ambition was to mark a path, to indicate a path for the recovery of the country, to draw a path, a planning. We are not a majority that is together or was born only because of the VAT emergency, but with the ambition of putting a plan back on the ground for the country based primarily on the need for social equity. The minority rapporteur said that we have lost contact with reality; no, we are very in contact with reality and we realize that this country needs equity, to have some redistribution and above all - this is the other fundamental point of this project - to start a real and serious path (even with all the controversy that perhaps this can attract, as we have seen in these days) that leads the country towards a true green transition. This means also having the courage to start laying the foundations for productive conversion and consumption, with the awareness that this is the only way to indicate and practice in the country in order to ensure that not only the environmental impacts, but also the social and economic impacts that climate change will inevitably produce and is also the only way - in our opinion - to be able to indicate a recovery and a quality growth for the country. Other roads, however proclaimed in daily polemics, as you will see, have no hope whatsoever. That's what we tried to do. Certainly we could do better if we had even more possibilities and more resources and perhaps - for goodness sake - more courage (I never hide the problems and difficulties), but meanwhile we have achieved results, not only those on VAT, which mean for families 400-500 euros less taxes, but on the tax wedge, which mean in envelope pay 500 euros more for next year and 1,000 for 2021. We've eliminated the superticket, isn't it? [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] We did not go back to investing in health care and making measures for a very long time, we have allocated two billion euros, not to mention medical specialization grants, which is one of the great problems we have, not to mention the 235 million euros of investments for medical machines for family doctors and paediatricians, not to mention the fund for the family. We have come back to talk about housing policies, which we have not talked about for a very long time, we have put in place a fund for rents, also what was practically no longer financed, for families in difficulty. There is a project on the quality of living, with an investment plan of EUR 835 million. Not to mention the investments for urban regeneration, which means, from our point of view, ensuring large projects of sustainability and zero land consumption. We have put in place, from the social point of view, an increase in resources for the disability fund, with a series of measures for work and for the social and health part, for non-self-sufficiency. From a social point of view, therefore, we could certainly do more, but for the first time we started investing again, because investment in social is a great investment for the country. The other key element that we care about is the green transition and renewable energy. To have confirmed all the deductions and ecobonus would be nothing: we have also put in place an operation regarding renewables and all the public housing, which is very important and will be able to produce advantages not only from the energy point of view but also of the aid to the most disadvantaged families. Finally, there will be a committee to start using environmentally harmful subsidies. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Does that seem small to you? It is not, because we know the resistances and what it means to put hand to a reorder. Sterilized VAT, we would like to remodel it with different parameters that have an environmental footprint: this would be a great benefit for the economy and for environmental sustainability. After the failure of Madrid, we must put ourselves in the head that this country must not only push into Europe, but must do its part. We can't go on like this anymore. What are we waiting for, more catastrophes? We must put our hands on a project in a courageous and serious way, and take decisions that are sometimes complicated. Many have taken for granted the investments for the green new deal, but they are not at all. Today, however, it is worth remembering that we must put all our energies in place, because these investments in environmental sustainability, in transport, on a series of interventions related to the circular economy are fundamental to the positive economic and environmental impact that they will have. We have returned to talk - and I think this is no small matter - about combating tax evasion in a clear and precise way: it is the other element that must give citizens the certainty that the State is on the side of those who do their duty and who pay taxes, and that the State is there to recover resources and to be able to invest them for a fair, social and environmentally just growth possibility. There are many other issues that we have dealt with: school, the right to study and I could mention many others. I regret - and I say this once again - that another element concerning the economic impact and the economy, i.e. the question of industrial hemp, has arisen from this maneuver. I found it very annoying the ideological polemics that were completely unfounded and the falsehoods that have been said in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu, M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] We might as well take on a challenge. We gladly submit to the tests: let's take a good test and see. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu, M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Take the holidays in peace, I recommend rest, because when the work is resumed we will all take the test and we will see who will undergo and who will not. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu, M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups. Senator Romeo's ironic applause. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Now! Let's do it now, the test!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u115	I would like to greet the students of the Secondary School of First Grade . Bonito-Cosenza, Castellammare di Stabia and of the Economic and Social High School of Galilee Galilei, in Piedimonte Matese, in the province of Caserta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u116	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u117	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I was the first to take the test live, so I would have no problem doing it again now. If you go online, you'll find him. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] (17.20) VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSd'Az GROUP. Let's test! GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Ready! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Everyone to the infirmary to take the test before the Conference of Leaders! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gallone, let's try to recover the dignity of the Assembly with an intervention in this matter. Please continue. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). This maneuver is ugly and harmful. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u118	Colleagues, if you want to give private speeches, sit outside. We would like to listen to Senator Gallone in an intervention on the measure. Thank you. Senator Gallone, please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u119	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President, let us start the time of my speech from now on. This maneuver, I said, is ugly and harmful because it kills hope, undermines trust and blocks the growth of the country and this is criminal. Today, undersecretary Castelli, sincerely, has declared to rely above all on innovation and digitization to support development and, soon after, here is the cut of the paragraphs concerning own innovation and digitization. Today I heard a shame crying out from the benches of the majority towards our benches because we exulted at the block of the paragraph on hemp and accused us of being against agriculture. Should we be ashamed? Us? Or should it be ashamed who is letting an entire agricultural sector, the olive grove, die with the total inertia of the actions against Xylella? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Or who is allowing products to be affected on agricultural products in Veneto, Emilia, Piedmont, Lombardy by the Asian bug? Or who has not yet made decisions on wildlife, on wild boars that are devastating the Italian countryside? Or who has anticipated excise duties on fuels that are likely to stop agricultural machinery? You shout at us to be ashamed because we have proposed, instead of hemp, resources for palliative care or orphan drugs to cure rare diseases (which you have obviously not granted us). [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You say that the government is a friend of the local authorities and has not even considered the very serious problem of the lack of municipal secretaries in the small municipalities, which are the heart of the country. You tell us that this budget law is inspired by the green new deal and rejected, per party taken, the proposal for the introduction of the vacuum system to render, that it would act on behavior to protect the environment, instead preferring hateful taxes, which have the sole purpose of financing humiliating welfare. It is said that the plastic tax exists a bit throughout Europe; yes, but those who say it forget that Italy has one of the most heavy loads in the world for taxation and paralysing bureaucracy. And we want to talk about the cut to the paragraph on civic education? Or how are virtuous universities penalized in favor of those that should be closed down? It takes courage, it takes a lot of courage. But this is not courage: courage presupposes boldness, this is irresponsibility and total lack of vision, sharing, deepening and knowledge. In a nutshell, this government is dangerous for manifest inability, because it emphasizes what should be done, but without the ability to do so. That being the case, we ask you only one thing: put your pen down and stop before it is too late. Let the businesses work and get them to work and go home, because this nightmare has lasted too long. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u120	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will focus on disability. In the budget law, we have increased the non-self-sufficiency fund by EUR 50 million and the budget for equal children's schools, which receive children and children with disabilities, by EUR 12.5 million. We have established an extraordinary contribution of one million euros on the occasion of the hundred years of the foundation of the Italian blind and visually impaired Union and of 500,000 euros to ANGLAT (National Association guide legislation handicapped transports). In addition, the Fund for the right to work of disabled people is increased by 5 million and a contribution of 400,000 is allocated to the Italian Federation for the overcoming of the handicap. We thank these associations, first of all the Federation between the national associations of people with disabilities (FAND), and all associations, even small ones, of family members, mothers and fathers who daily, with dedication, are at the side of the most fragile people and their families solving their needs and those of others. A disability and non-self-sufficiency fund is set up, to which stable resources will be allocated for EUR 300 million from 2022 (we need stable resources so much on this), in order to reorganise and systematise disability support policies. Our next commitments as Italy Viva will be to allocate the resources allocated to: after us, caregivers (we know that 70% of the people involved in caregivers are women) and autism, but we all know that resources are not enough. Each of us is different from the other, from the other; otherness is the foundation of human coexistence. A society is just and plural when it treats disability not as a world apart, but as part of the world, so we will continue to fight for the resources for non self-sufficiency, made structural by the Renzi Government, to be aimed at independent life, autonomy, to preserve and respect the well-being and happiness of people with disabilities who have their character, desires. This is the approach we need to address this issue; only in this way will we move from needs to rights, fighting for a truly welcoming system of social services, because we do not want to leave anyone or anyone alone. The present draft budget law also represents this. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD and Senator Errani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u122	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by sharing a comment from my colleague, Mr Bagnai, on the situation we are experiencing with this Government. In theory, the Legislative Parliament, the Government has a political role, the President of the Republic has a function of guarantee, but the practice is quite different: the Legislative Government, the President of the Republic has functions of political direction without political responsibility, the Parliament tries to have a function of guarantee trying to correct the errors of the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a perfect representation of what is happening to the umpteenth power and which is taking shape in this crazy budget law. Last Friday night, I went home to my company. Yes, because my husband and I are among those entrepreneurs who sleep in the company (I am not ashamed to say so) and I thought about that absurd night spent in the Budget Committee and everything seemed far away, out of reality, as in one of those confused and meaningless dreams. The message I want to bring today to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, is that this cannot continue. We have in our hands the future of a nation and the state budget must be a serious, institutional thing, with deadlines and rules that respect and square the accounts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what companies, entrepreneurs, but also all citizens expect. We demonize the evader, who often finds himself paying sanctions and leaps for having delayed one day in payments; we demand from Italian citizens rigour and respect of the laws and then what do we do, in fact what do you do? Let's grab a budget on a December night, with a government that comes to us to say: we have wrong, we correct, so the balance doesn't change; we lower by 0.05 the plastic, we bring back the tetrapak. And the next day an amendment is found but it has not been voted, the other one has been voted but it is no longer found. Just a file of Excel, it won't take long. I listened to Mr Faggi's speech on Friday; she explained it better than I did: before making fleas for Italians and filling them with meaningless laws and leggings, we begin to modernize ourselves. We begin to have no more flying cards, a little more rigour, and we find Parliament's dignity again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Parliament in this budget will have a third of the members, do you realize? The most important law of the State was given the opportunity to participate, with an amendment, an idea, a corrective one, only one third of the Members; only the senators. What about the honourable Members? They will not have this privilege because there is no time. It's the result of a government that wasted time fighting for forty days. This is a full responsibility of the current Executive, who throws out a law and then realizes that he has given birth to a monster, and of course seeks correction. My colleagues have all talked a lot about plastic tax, sugar tax, corporate cars, Imu, Tasi, TOSAP: it took you too long to realize that they were all stupid, the result of a short-sighted vision. In the face of a poor contribution in terms of revenue you have created chaos in the business world; you have not dealt with falls and spillovers in the real world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But the company that prints or grills or draws plastic products how will it calculate how much recycling material it puts in the products? More records, maybe? Another record keeping? Any other tasks? And how can you check whether a product contains 30, 40, 50 percent recycled material? Do you know what a mattress is? It is part of the production process of moulding and in normality it is re-entered as recycling in the production process; how will it be considered? You don't know that because those who talk so much, in all probability, have never seen a production process. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Who is the creator of this tax? Who is it? I'd like to meet him, look him in the face. But let's go back to our way of budgeting: also Accounting how does it reason? We have to deal with reality. How is it possible that, when an entry is reduced, there is no probabilistic calculation that gives me an estimate of the positive impact in expansionary terms on the real economy? It is as if a company invests in a project considering only the cost and not the probable profits. Similarly, with regard to the increased revenue resulting from increased taxation: how is it possible that the Accounting Office considers only the value of the higher income and does not consider the - much more serious and real - effect of an economic contraction which ultimately leads to a lower income? As happened to the amendment repealing Article 14 of the so-called corporate crisis decree: it was 14.1, the one on the fiscal shield of Ilva. It has not been dealt with in the budget committee. Accounting has had nothing to say about that amendment; yet, look at the devastating financial and economic implications of the real economy. It was enough to express Article 81 of the Constitution, but political will prevailed over coherence and common sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u124	Senator, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u125	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall end, Mr President, and thank you. We are absurd, and someone has the courage to say that this year was better because we voted in the Commission. I remind those senators that 600 Members will not only not vote, but they will not even have the slightest chance to say theirs. Shame! Another confidence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] and FIBP-UDC). I do not remember a single measure that has not passed so far without confidence, and here too it does not deny you: confidence in the Senate, confidence in the House and the budget is done. Stop, this shame must come to an end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] and FIBP-UDC. Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we in More Europe had really hoped that this new Government, Count-bis, with regard to the most important law of a country, the budget law, would behave differently than it did last year, in the name of a proclaimed, non-existent, discontinuity. However, this is not the case, both in the method of dealing with Parliament - which is even euphemistic - and on the substance of the matter. And I want to start with the method. Last year in the Senate the budget law was not even discussed. Do You Remember? She was fired with a vow of confidence on a text that arrived in extremis, without anyone even being able to read it. This year we have given ourselves more or less fake days of discussion in the Commission, pending the true text that the Government, as we have heard, has fired in these hours. In short, we are in fact at last year's situation, opposite parts between the Senate and the House, because the House is evidently in a condition of impossibility of analysis. I would add that we are also in perfect continuity with the previous Government. The symbolic reforms of Count I (the 100th share and the citizenship income) have remained the priority issues, not negotiable, even for the current majority. The safeguard clauses have been defused to 23 billion for 2020, but will be objectively re-proposed for 43 billion in the two-year period 2021-2022. In short, the same thing done on slightly lower figures of the Count Government I for the year 2019. It must be clear that the so-called flexibility negotiated with Europe is in debt; and debts are not free and are not even forever. Which means that this flexibility in debt is going to increase the already enormous public debt, of all evidence. Nor can we invoke the alibi that the Government has had to negotiate with the European Commission. Here the reason for the delay is entirely within the majority and all related to current expenditure. There is not, apart from the 3 billion on the tax wedge, even the shadow of interventions that can push the economy by reducing public debt. In the meantime, however, we have witnessed for a month, evidently in the press, the launch of great proclamations, from the green new deal to the family act. All knowing there's no money. And so, if the country's income is 855 billion and the outputs are 900 billion, adding this maneuver, you understand that clearing the bone is fine, but the bone was already dusted. All announcements, all destined to fall behind each other, creating expectations and, therefore, relative frustrations in public opinion. We had proposed four amendments in order to be constructive, but there was no way of thinking of approving any of them. These would have increased revenue and, perhaps, allowed investment in sectors far more relevant to economic development than some increase in current expenditure. All this adds to the clash of these hours with regard to the intervention to secure the People's Bank of Bari. On this I want to make a very simple remark: rescue, yes; nationalization, no. This, at least, is the position that More Europe expresses very clearly. Finally, last year I did not participate in the vote for a sort of conscientious objection to this humiliation of parliamentary work, which was repeated exactly this year again. So, again this year, for the same reasons, I will do the same. I really don't want to participate in this pseudo farce, because I love parliamentary democracy and I love institutions. That is the greatest respect they can give this Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, at the beginning of my speech, let me thank the members of the Budget Committee, of which I am a member, both by majority and opposition, because - believe me - we have worked in a difficult situation, to use euphemism. Of the financial maneuver to our examination we can say, first of all, that it lacks a strategic plan and a vision to revive our country. The aim is to transform into law a series of heterogeneous, inconclusive and inconsistent measures used only and exclusively as glue of this gangherate majority. Colleagues, you have used the state's main law to keep this rugged majority of government together. Mr President, in the Budget Committee it was a pity to see the ballets, the interruptions, the updates, a situation which President Pesco's laudable commitment tried to save, caused by the divisions and the disruptions of the majority. That at our examination is a measure that should give stability to the country's economy and precisely such stability should give more credit to the state and more confidence in our country. For you, colleagues in the majority, the law that should guarantee stability is instead a tax law. Tax everything: we have returned to the mill tax, of historical memory, for those who remember it, and there are the tax on plastic, that on sugar, the Robin tax, the additional Ires, the increase of the price of fuels and so on. It is a draft budget law which has a fundamental characteristic, that is to focus everything on postponing its application. Of what little there is in the maneuver, everything is postponed to later. We must be careful, because we are playing with the reliability of our country towards Europe and towards the financial markets. There is little and what little there is is postponed to later. This is therefore a clearly insufficient manoeuvre compared to the needs of Italy, which risks not having an effective impact on the situation of substantial stagnation of the country. We had tried some adjustments to the maneuver. I remember, among all, the proposal to introduce the faculty of video surveillance in nursing homes and schools, for those institutions that had requested it, to prevent the repetition of those serious events of news, which are happening these days. My colleague, Senator Giammamco, has presented various legislative formulations on this subject to meet this need, but nothing has been done about it, because the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Ministry of the Interior are opposed. We wanted to give a clear signal, however, about an emergency, which touches some realities of our country. You have planned to stop the dry coupon on commercial leases, which had been introduced in 2019. Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that this forecast is a fatal blow to the location of shops, shops and all those places that are located in the historic centers of our cities and which are being emptied, in favour of shopping malls? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We do not talk about the merger between Imu and Tasi, since there is little time and I have to get to the conclusions. There is a lack of a strategic vision to relaunch our country and norms that give confidence to it and to our economies. Who do you want me to invest in a country like ours, reduced in this way? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] Everyone's running away. Do you realize that? Colleagues of the PD, who have a culture of government, unlike others that make up the majority, realize that we are taking the country to a coffin from which I think we will hardly be able to get out. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u129	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u130	Mr President, we are therefore about to vote on the confidence in the draft budget law, which, as I have already said in general, has been characterised by the fact that it has found a mass of significant resources (EUR 24 billion and broken billion) to sterilize the safeguard clauses, which, for the choices made last year, in particular with the decision to achieve a quota of 100, had burned important resources for the years to come. We have done so: although so many resources are devoted to the sterilization of VAT, the maneuver still contains significant measures from a number of points of view. I want to stop and focus on some concerning the green new deal, which will see in our country start an innovative and new path, regarding the attention to the environment. EUR 4.24 billion is expected, which may still seem a little short of what we need to do in these areas, but it is certainly an important start, partly because we know that we will not be able to spend these billions all at once, for a number of other reasons that I will say in the queue. We have to address policies concerning the circular economy, urban regeneration, sustainable tourism, the fight against climate change: this is a set of policies to support economic development with public investments for the redevelopment and energy conversion of our country, going towards the decarbonisation of the economy. To this I say that they are added - because perhaps it has not been sufficiently understood and emphasized - the billions of euros made available to the Municipalities: in the coming years, between 2020 and 2034, 25 billion euros will be made available to the Municipalities and an important slice of these resources, with precise destination and defined in the budget law, will go to the energy efficiency of the buildings, sustainable territorial development, urban regeneration and sustainable development. I believe that if we put together the resources that this budget law has been able to collect and allocate to environmental issues, we can say that it is a good start and a good start. In addition to this, there are two measures that Italy Viva has proposed in the amendments it has tabled and which have been approved, namely the fund of 50 million euros per year for three years, from 2022 to 2024, to implement the urban cycle network, which means to realize about 1,000 kilometers of cycle networks per year in our cities, that is 3,000 kilometers in three years; then there is a very simple amendment, but it has made so much talk, because, proposing the equalization of electric scooters to bicycles, will allow to start a small revolution on electric micromobility in our cities. This will also help bring benefits to the environment and we know how much the municipalities were asking for in terms of simplifying the rules to start this revolution. I was saying before that it is not enough to have made the resources available, but there is a need to simplify the rules that allow the investments that the State manages to place to see soon and quickly the light. This is why Italy Viva has proposed in recent weeks, and will come back to propose to the Government and the majority in January, a shock plan, that is, a way of simplifying the rules concerning those 120 billion euros that over the years the different budget laws have staked out so that the State could make investments and that need simplified procedures: only in this way, quickly entering the Italian economic circuit, we will be able to achieve the growth that the country needs. Before, Senator Bonino complained that we have no additional resources. It is true because this country of ours does not grow, but in order to make it grow in a moment of economic stasis, crisis or stagnation, we need to resort to the economic leverage of the State. There's money. We need to simplify the procedures so that these 120 billion euros, entering the Italian economic circuit, can produce wealth; producing wealth and growth, also the revenues of the State will increase and the next budget law will be able to see fresh and additional resources to be able to adopt additional and improving measures; and maybe also Senator Bonino next year will be able to express a more positive opinion. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u131	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the maneuver in our examination hits the Italians with a bunch of new taxes, as we have heard many times in this House, but - even more serious - it mortgaged the future of Italy and the Italians and stole any prospect from our children. It is a budget law that comes into force on 1 January 2020, but it will cause damage for many years because it is fierce about our only true social wealth, about our only heritage: you are swearing at our children. I am not just referring to the 16 billion new debt for which those today who have one, five or fifteen years, will have to pay interest for their whole life, but, above all, to the system of new taxes that is persecutory towards the most defenceless, that is, children, through their families. This is how it happens when one thinks of ruling a country with the abacus, exclusively to make the accounts square, without knowing how they live and what the real needs of the people are. It is called detachment or disassociation from reality; in politics it is the worst of pathologies because it highlights an unbreakable hyate between the people and those who administer it, connected only with the power and disconnected from the needs of the country. You staged a long, animated and passionate debate on cannabis just now. You tried to liberalise it by concealing it in the draft budget law with the hypocrisy of calling it light. Unfortunately, we have not seen the same fervor for much more important topics such as the safety of children. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] For example, you have decided not to proceed with the installation of cameras in kindergartens and facilities where elderly and non-self-sufficient care is taken. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] So, when we hear of a further case of abuse on children or the elderly, have at least the decency to keep quiet, because you wanted and preferred to close your eyes and not look in the name of workers' privacy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You were good, indeed I would say very good, in asking for money from families, without giving back anything in terms of security and transparency. Also cash in on the orange juice with the tax on carbonated drinks. Will doubling the price of orange juice convince a mother to buy a bottle less orange juice? It's not like that, and you know it very well. This measure does not want to discourage the use of sugary drinks, otherwise you would have invested the money of this tax in awareness campaigns and food education. Your purpose is another and has nothing as noble as health care, but it is only to increase revenue. Not to mention the plastic tax, which has as its first and immediate effect the increase in the cost of water bottles, which we all know to be a primary asset. To this extent it drowns all the hypocrisy that you have gained during this period and that distinguishes you, but it is not enough because it affects just the important disposable plastic products to prevent children from getting hurt with glass and that are used in homes, in canteens of kindergartens and schools. Even if someone thought they would solve the issue with fruit juice, for example using tetrapak, nothing to do because that too was overtaxed. These taxes will cost an average of 138 euros per family. These are unacceptable increases, which strike indiscriminately, regardless of income and social status and which point straight to the only category of Italians who, in a country where the real emergency is denatality, had to be spared. There are already 1,300,000 poor children today. Who will still have the courage to bring children into the world knowing that he will not be able to offer them a worthy future? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have the great responsibility and guilt of writing a maneuver against children, or at least not in favor. Your budgetary manoeuvre could be summed up as follows: ==References====External links==* Official website That's what you're telling your young people. [[Senator Lanzi's comments.]] Senator Mantero was indignant earlier because this part of the hemicycle had applauded President Casellati, who had made a technical decision, applying the Rules of Procedure. Yes, Senator Mantero, we have applauded because we are the healthy part of this House. We are the part that takes care of the health of our children and defends it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Luckily, there's a little light in a bleak picture. We, the members of the bicameral committee, turned it on infancy and adolescence. I am referring to the adoption of the amendment introducing the prevention of bullying and cyberbullying in schools, through specific teacher training, including with regard to combating gender violence. A proposal born from the work that the Commission has carried out for about a year and which ended with the unanimous approval of the survey of these odious abuses to the detriment of children. The measure, signed by many colleagues from all the parliamentary groups, which I warmly thank for the sensitivity shown, allocates EUR 3 million over three years to train teachers, so as to prepare them to cope as effectively as possible with what is now being imposed as a real social scourge. Prevention is fundamental, but it is only a first step that must be part of the wider context of a child welfare system which, on the one hand, adequately protects children from dangers and, on the other hand, helps to reduce social differences between children. I think of that father who, a few days ago, despite the four dependent children, was suspended the supply of electricity and gas, because he was delayed with the payment of the bills. It is unthinkable that essential services will be cut in the places hosting minors and it is a clear deprivation of primary needs, such as food, water or an adequate temperature at all times of the year. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Government and Parliament must intervene to ensure that, at such an acute moment of economic and social crisis, corrective measures are introduced to protect children themselves, such as, for example, the freezing of posting in the presence of economic difficulties - temporary, of course - and in any case as long as children live in the home. A civilised country cannot allow such incidents that harm the rights of children. Families and minors unfortunately have still lived as the object of a debt recovery operation, rather than as the heart of our society, an irreplaceable nucleus of Italy of the future. Among the thousand obvious criticalities of this maneuver, however, I am happy to have favored the ignition of a light - as I said before - to guarantee the smallest, those who cannot defend themselves and that the institutions have the duty to protect. This is the Christmas present that the Senate, by approving our amendment, has given to all of them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] For the rest, unfortunately, it is a desert where there is not even the mirage of an oasis anymore. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u133	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u134	Mr President, Senators and Senators, members of the Government, for this draft budget law that we are about to vote on, I would like to mention some of the concepts expressed by the President of the Council at the time of the vote of confidence in this Government. We listened to the President-in-Office of the Council, just three months ago, to report that he wanted to inspire himself in government action to a new humanism, according to a modus operandi that left behind the sound of useless proclamations and roboant statements. An operational government that dealt with the many difficulties of women and men in this country, who dealt with health care, families, green new deal, reduction of the tax wedge, kindergartens, reforms and that prevented the increase in VAT. We're here today. With the draft budget law in our examination, we are moving on to this new course just three months ago. And according to this new course and this new style, I want to remind all of us today of some useful concepts: I want to talk about work, awareness, diligence (that of the good father of the family) and the consequent concept of balance of the budget. I want to talk about trust (on our own work and on that of others) without which social life would not stand. I don't want to be demagogic, so I would also talk about public vices and private virtues (I have specifically reversed adjectives). The Italian Republic - it is written - is founded on work; and it is precisely from this founding value, the work, that we must start again, remembering the work of our ancestors, without going very far. Those who emerged from an epochal disaster, about seventy years ago, rebuilt and built Italy. Work as a commitment of our energies to a purpose. Darwin said that the world survives those who best adapt and man not only adapts to the surrounding world, but, unique in terms of the level reached, adapts that world to himself. The work means personal realization, in itself and because it allows us stability because it also allows us to use the corresponding revenues. Work perhaps more important than individual action in society and tool to adapt reality to ourselves and our projects. And we must not forget that, at great price and with a very human effort of ingenuity and progress, our ancestors have redeemed us even from the hardest work. Having said that, I come to the realization that our public debt (public debt), which was mentioned earlier, has doubled in just fifteen years from 1980 to 1995, from 60% to 120 percent of gross domestic product, to stabilise today around 130 percent, as we all know. Then we turn to the concept of diligence, that of the good father of the family, concept that even goes back to the Roman private law, to the Corpus iuris civilis iustinianeum. What was called diligentia diligentis patris familias is the diligence applied by a person who has responsibility for the sustenance and conduct of a family. You see, this concept, also referred to by the Italian Civil Code, leads to the fulfillment of certain contractual obligations. From here to the concept of balance of the budget the step is also short and it would not matter if public or private, in a society in which there is confidence. Yes, that public balance, a constraint introduced a few years ago, means that the amount of expenditure incurred by the State and other public bodies is equal to revenue or tax revenue, thus avoiding the budget deficit. Now, you see, the private virtue I was referring to is that this people has a long history and a great culture and knows the value of fulfillment. If you extend your look at aggregate debt, i.e. at the levels of debt of all economic actors (state, companies, banks and families), Italy is a country without major debt problems. Where would the problem lie? The problem lies in that concept of misleading crisis that has become common and pervasive. I have already mentioned Luigi Einaudi, which I repeat. Luigi Einaudi said that the economic crisis is never a cause; if anything, it is a consequence of an ethical and - he added - spiritual crisis. Therefore, according to those values mentioned in the preamble and a very heavy burden, a road with this draft budget law has taken us and we continue to follow it. It is the path of coherence and responsibility that has been set out in the commitments made. But along this path we must strive to give real value to work, because we can achieve very different results on the same level of energy spent. That is why we need awareness, trust and diligence; we need to look to the future with renewed pride. Our history and our culture give us strong motivations. We need to roll up our sleeves; we need to be genuinely positive in our minds and positive in our ideas and actions. Allow me, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, to add some arguments on the important role that can be played today by the farm and the whole agri-food sector. A sector that is a synthesis of culture, history and traditions of this extraordinary Mediterranean land. It is a non-delocalizable sector and a land that, due to the climatic conditions, lends itself to interpreting that green new deal that must see us unsavory protagonists from misleading prejudices. This morning we talked about cannabis sativa and I heard about it in several speeches. It is a plant that has been cultivated for centuries to make fabrics, ropes, flour and oil. Today its cultivation grows in the world with a trend close to about 40 percent per year and are realized fibers for the biobuilding, biomaterials, flour, the phyto-cannabinoid CBD therapeutic and much more. All we need, however, is clarity and certain rules - this we wanted to do - to protect producers and consumers. And it is our main duty to implement them in accordance with democratic rules. Above all, we must express ourselves with the consistency that I have not seen in the Chamber today, especially from a political group which, in the region where it governs with a very different majority from this one, promulgated on 8 August this year Regional Law No. 36 entitled: Support and promotion of the cultivation and agro-industrial and agri-food chain of hemp. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then this morning they told us about drugs! ANGRISANI (M5S). It is the Veneto Region. MOLLAME (M5S). Yes, it's Veneto. I have still heard proclamations once again roboating and damaging for our agriculture. Let's go, however, with awareness, diligence and responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u135	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u136	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because I believe it is necessary to take into account in this House some important changes of principle in the policies for public research in the country which are included in the budget law that we are going to vote on. The first novelty concerns a rule that, when intervening on the newborn Human Technopole research centre, a research infrastructure located in the ex Expò area, restores the principle that the allocation of funds to research should be based on a competition of merit, free, fair and transparent. Mr President, three years ago, Parliament voted to guarantee extraordinary and non-competitive funding to the Human Technopole Foundation by means of budgetary law. It is EUR 140 million a year without time constraints. To give an idea of what this research budget is, I would just like to point out that our 51 scientific institutions (IRCCS) share, competitively, EUR 159 million per year. Human Technopole has been awarded 140 million a year forever and without competition. With a legitimate political decision it was decided to build a new house of science in that area and the economic allocation was established. At the same time, however, it was also decided who would write and manage the scientific project that would enter that house, without having won any competition and without any competition. It was a mistake for reasons which I would like to summarize briefly here, also in order to make the most of what we now find in the budget law and avoid such mistakes in the future. The mistake, the first perhaps, was to forget that the legislator's duty is to guarantee the citizen the best return from the investment of his money and to achieve this goal requires a competition. With Human Technopole, this principle of public ethics was ignored, as there was no competition to choose the winning project. The consequence - the second reason for the mistake - is also that that project was not chosen as the best among peers, because there was no other project, and so we found ourselves with a project without scientific authority, to be changed, as it was actually happening. As a third reason I would like to point out that at the same time all this - a project that had won by law, assigned by law to a group or an entity - while all this was given priority, so many extraordinary Italian researchers were prevented from competing to imagine the best content of the new house of science. Think that Human Technopole deals with genomics and from its design have been excluded colleagues who are in Sardinia, the CNR of Cagliari and the University of Sassari, like Francesco Cucca, who for years have been at the top of the world research on the issues that Human Technopole wants to deal with. It would have been enough a public ban that would have fueled new passions; new collaborations between scholars and between organizations could have been born to imagine the best project for our country, the winning project to develop there. So did the former mayor of New York Michael Bloomberg, when a few years ago he decided that, in Manhattan, a new house of science had to be built: made the decision, allocated the budget, opened a ban and asked for 17 bands of bodies not only American, but from all over the world together and, among the 17, won the cordata composed by Cornell University and the Israeli Technion. But this is the past that must not be forgotten that the budget law seeks to remedy. Our Human Technopole remains an important operation, but it must be for the whole country: it is a new house of science. The point was how to act now to eliminate the idea present in the community of scholars, not accepted, of an entity that won without merit and effort. The goal was how to root it in the country, how to feed with it that widespread excellence, with projects and ideas spread in all our universities, hospitals and public bodies, that truly characterizes our research. Well, the law that we vote today, without subtracting resources from the foundation, nor burdening even more for a euro on the state budget, gives Human Technopole a national mission that I believe is really important: it opens it to the country systematically, establishing that it will have to acquire, with the majority share of that large annual funding, laboratories of super technologies, those that universities and research institutions of the whole country will never succeed in acquiring and that perhaps it would also be absurd to acquire, given their costs and their rapid obsolescence. They can be super-tech labs on proteomics, genomics, metabolomics, will be decided after public consultation; the entire country will be called to determine what will be called labs, which will contain tools, dedicated personnel, skills, protocols to carry out complex experiments. Many models abroad successfully replicate exactly this experience that centralizes technology. Above all, with the rule in the budget law, with annual frequency the doors of these laboratories of super technologies will open to researchers from all over the country - Bari, Pavia, Genoa, Urbino - and from every research agency will be able to access those instruments and experiences, but on a competitive basis and, therefore, only if their project will be judged better than others by an independent committee. The principle of competition, the principle of competitive access at the source of public resources, is thus introduced in Human Technopole. If successful, they will be able to carry out the technological part of their work there, and then return to the research center of their region with the result and experience acquired, which can further branch out locally. Human Technopole will benefit from becoming a recognized epicenter of national research with virtuous movements of scholars from all over the Peninsula to Lombardy and then back to its Regions. But none of this would have been possible without the active cooperation of the many colleagues present in and outside the Budget Commission, of each Group and political orientation that, through their interventions, have given strength to the need to review and detail how those huge resources should be deployed, so that even those outside Human Technopole could rightly benefit from it. To that unanimous vote in the Budget Committee on the amendment proposal, I believe that the gratitude of the country's scholars really should go. I therefore truly thank all, majority and opposition, the Ministries of Education, Health and Economics. I would like to mention the names of the fifty senators who have signed the amendment and the officials. However, since I cannot quote all of them, I will simply thank President Pesco, the majority and minority rapporteurs and the Undersecretary of Misiani for the MEF, which, with the valuable role of linking the work, has allowed this text to be in the Chamber today. There will be work to be done over the next twelve months and their work will continue, because the text of the Convention between the Foundation and the Founding Ministries will have to be detailed, so that the principles of the law can be firmly and effectively implemented. I would like to conclude with the second important innovation introduced by a rule in budgetary law. For the first time we are talking about a research agency in our country. It was expected and it is a very important signal, a great opportunity, but it must be improved much and increased with a collective work that cannot ignore the involvement of the entire scientific world. Many have highlighted the limitations of its current configuration. Above all - in my opinion - we must insist on the real function of this agency, which, everywhere in the world, is above all the place that establishes and regulates with third parties, independence and competence, the bans that distribute money to research, in order to ensure the evaluation of projects among peers, without discriminating anyone, with open calls in certain times and known about all the discipline. It is the policy that decides the areas to invest in, but it is the peer evaluation method that must determine how to achieve those objectives. Finally, the last quote concerns another very important aspect: the increase of 31 million for the funding of grants for university law for 2020. It is an important increase and I really hope that it will be aimed at completing the elimination of the eligible student figure but without a scholarship, and making effective the right for the capable and deserving, even if lacking the means, to reach the highest degrees of study, as our Constitution establishes. So there is a lot to do, but I really think that today the premises are set for an important season for Italian public research. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u137	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u138	Mr President, one of the many merits of this manoeuvre is one that I would like to mention very much, and it is that we have realised and that we have made it clear that Italy is not yet a country for women. There are examples - unfortunately far from the shining ones that we have now heard quoted from the Senator for Life Cattaneo - that remind us how the diversity of opportunities for work, income, role and power between women and men are still fundamental in our society. And this creates macroscopic and macro-economic distortions; these are obviously distortions in terms of distance from those ideal and constitutional values that see men and women without distinction; but also in terms of dependence, an economically imposed dependence, psychologically and physically, which sees many women, up to 8 million, still today, be victims of violence in our country, one and a half million victims of harassment in the workplace and a woman killed every two days. The cost to the state of this enormous violence, of this enormous distortion, of the inequality of power between men and women is equal to half of our maneuver: EUR 17 billion per year between direct and indirect costs. All this creates a distortion also in macroeconomic terms and in the competitiveness of our country. The data is to remind us: Bank of Italy and Istat tell us that, if female employment in the North is at 50% (one in two women works), only one in three women works in the Central-South areas. This leads to a gap compared to the European average of 14 percentage points of female employment and harms our growth, our GDP and our future, because we disperse a potential talent that should instead be founding. Great credit goes to the Government because it has realized this distortion, it has taken note of it and has adopted in this maneuver many measures that can put on track a society not only equal, but also competitive. Great credit goes to this Parliament and to the majority, who wanted to restore education to respect in schools; it is essential to say that, although different, albeit special, we are equal in dignity and opportunities. And this is very much about, even in concrete terms, what happens in the dynamics of violence. Very good, therefore, the refinancing of the strategic plan on gender violence with an additional EUR 5 million, also to finance the re-educational pathways of abusive men because, in the case of violence, the problem is men and it must be made clear. Increase and release of funds for orphans of victims of feminicide: it is an innovative, cross-cutting rule, to say that debts to the state of orphans of victims of feminicide must be freed, and this also concerns news. Another important innovation is the financing of courses at the university: all operators who, in various ways, deal with equality, teaching equality, telling equality, drawing our country (politics, journalists, doctors, social workers, judges who write sentences) must be trained in their path of study; they must be able to read the inequalities and prejudices and avoid them, in judgments, in newspaper articles, in speeches, sometimes harmful, of politicians. We have done a lot on the family front to say that care work must be balanced between men and women - parental leave has this objective - and it is not up to women in free terms and services must be offered by the state: the kindergarten bonus, the fund of 100 million euros to restructure and build kindergartens even where there are no kindergartens. We must then break that crystal ceiling, which many women have already broken in Italy (Marta Cartabia) and Europe (Christine Lagarde and Ursula Von Der Leyen), to show that it is no longer a taboo: women can and must be model for the new generations; they can be model in the roles that allow them to redesign a different society, different listed companies, different small and medium-sized enterprises. The extension of the Gulf-Moscow law is therefore very good; the increase in the percentage of women planned where it is decided. If our society wants to be free, it wants to free women from violence, it wants to free opportunities and talents, it can only work in this direction and it can only fly high. With Italia Viva we want and we can. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u139	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be very assertive: the maneuver we are debating is financed by 50% in deficits and the rest in taxes; it does not relaunch the economy; it is recessionary; it adds taxes, deficits and debt and produces substantial zero growth. But let's go into the merits and some details. In this maneuver of 31.7 billion, 16.3 billion are of additional deficit which, in addition to that to current legislation, determines a total amount of 40.9 billion. We cannot fail to consider new taxes of 6.1 billion in 2020 and 11.2 billion in 2021. I would also like to be clear about the deficit: Brothers of Italy has no prejudice. It's okay if it's for investment, for infrastructure, for land, for security, in short for strategic sectors; it's not okay if it's for financing current expenditure, which is exactly what this financial manoeuvre is about. The debt generated will result in an increase in the deficit-GDP ratio by 0.9 percentage points and this ratio will rise to 2.3% in 2020. These are therefore other numbers, the objective data. We all remember that when, after the month of August, the current Government was launched, two questionable reasons were stirred up. The first was that policy aimed at avoiding the victory of the right if we were allowed to return to the vote, and I say perhaps. The other was of an economic nature: this government is being created because it is necessary to sterilize the increase in VAT provided for in January 2020. The maneuver avoids tax increases for the famous 23 billion, but - and I repeat - it puts a series of micro taxes - of which we have already calculated the amounts - and, above all, only the envisaged safeguard clauses that, in absolute value, weigh 19 billion in 2021 and for more than 25 billion in 2022 are reduced. In this financial manoeuvre, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing serious in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the professions, for the craftsmen, for the traders, not to mention the location of commercial spaces. Moreover, the maneuver penalizes VAT matches and in general the productive world and does not relaunch any of the excellences of Made in Italy; there is nothing for infrastructure or for the territory. Moreover, it would also be regrettable when you emphasize the green vision, because the fund is poor and above all you decide to deal with the environmental issue only with new taxes that will hit productive sectors. Fratelli d'Italia has tabled over 500 amendments and has drawn up much more than one counter-maneuver, has developed an alternative model, because we are convinced that another maneuver is possible: that of Italy that thinks in great. We have it so titled and we go around Italy to introduce it. We have resources for our maneuver from citizenship income, which we would like to see cancelled, from those EUR 7 billion that constitute a welfare and bankruptcy measure that has not produced work and that would best be employed in services to families and the person. We also propose the abolition of the sugar tax, which you have maintained, having only moved its entry into force in October, as well as the plastic tax that, after the protests, you have dropped to 0.49 cents per kilogram and slipped in July, but despite this it will hit the productive sectors concerned with a stagata that has no precedent. We propose a fairer tax; we propose the flat tax on incremental income and an overall system of tax reduction and tax pressure; we propose the introduction of a serious web tax and business support measures, the defence of the Italian brand, as well as interventions to hit the real big evaders and total evaders. I cannot fail to mention our family package, which focuses on the birth rate and the recognition of the social value of motherhood and the centrality of the family. Your maneuver marginalizes families. I know there's the baby bonus, the one-off check, little money for kindergarten. The majority rapporteur himself has stated in this House that you have set a course; no more. In fact, it's not enough. It's too little. On the contrary, we have developed a family package, which is a model of revolutionary welfare and subsidiary and non welfare, with free and open day care, with a fund to restructure and create new ones; with the proposal of the VAT facilitated to 4% on children's products; with the introduction of childhood income; with the increase of maternity and paternity leave times; with the increase of deductions for dependent children and other measures to support maternity and paternity choices as well as to promote female employment thus increasing gross domestic product. Unfortunately, you did not accept these measures. However, we must acknowledge with satisfaction that other of our amendments have been adopted in the budget committee. I mention only a few because of their nature and importance. I am thinking first of all of the increase, thanks to the amendment that sees me first signed with other colleagues, for EUR 1 million of the fund for orphans of feminicide and domestic crimes. That is the reality. Last year we did not succeed; this year yes, and we await the implementing decrees of the law of 2018, which on November 25 you finally declared that you would unlock. We are waiting for concrete steps because we are talking about children who have lost their mother, very often at the hands of their fathers; children who are entrusted to relatives who must follow their economic, psychological, formative and entry into the world of work. Still, another amendment that marks the victory of Brothers of Italy is the establishment of a fund of EUR 7 million to support the purchase of breast milk substitutes, i.e. milk powder, for all new mothers who cannot breast-feed naturally because they suffer from specific diseases. In this case, too, concrete help and the perspective for the real needs of the person. Again, I quote the amendment by Brothers of Italy approved against the so-called crazy bills, i.e. those containing amounts that do not correspond to actual consumption that represent a real harassment of citizens and a harm to the rights of the consumer. Thanks to the approval of our amendment, the service manager will have to repay what is unlawfully received and will have to pay a penalty of 10% of the amount not due. Looking away, I am thinking of our amendment concerning the Italian community in Venezuela, that is, the citizens who have all the requirements to ask for and obtain citizenship and who sometimes wait for years because of the bureaucracy and fail to get it. We also thought about them and the crisis that struck Venezuela. Colleagues, in conclusion, this maneuver comes to the House after quarrels and frictions within a majority that is not cohesive. The text cannot be improved here or in the House; it is armored. With the tombstone vote of confidence, there is essentially a political will, that of a government that is not - because it does not - a synthesis. And it doesn't because it's a sum of numbers and different components voted to maintain the status quo. This maneuver is the direct daughter of a government that does not build growth and does not relaunch the economy. It is a shortsighted and sad maneuver that does not look far away; it is not brave and lacks a vision of perspective for the nation. It is a soulless maneuver, because it lacks as prevalent the national interest and the desire to put Italy above everything. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u141	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here for the final passage of the budget law 2020. I believe that, in order to fully reason on this maneuver, we must put it in the right context. On the one hand, we have an overall international picture and of the time we have behind us that shows us the complexity and the difficulties we have faced and we will still have to face: the ongoing trade wars, Brexit, the problems around Europe and those that have accompanied our country so far. I say, incidentally, that this year we will have real GDP growth of around 0.1 per cent; which means, basically, consumption of stagnant households, investment on the stake, with a small compensation linked to export performance. I think it is useful to frame the debate on this budgetary manoeuvre on the basis of the fact that it has a year of reckless life behind it, with a spread splashed in recent months to the stars, which gives us a photograph - as it emerged during the hearings in the Commission - of as many as 11 billion euros of interest thrown away and that, without the intervention linked to the reversal of the route carried out by the new majority and the new government, would have given us in the three-year budget a further increase of another 40 million euros of greater interest. I would like to say: a League tax on the development of our country's economy. Well, I say this also because I believe it is in everyone's evidence that the Government in August fell just because it did not have to face this budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is first and foremost to leave a background notation on the ground. The new Government, although with all the difficulties linked to a start necessarily to be ravaged and developed, has assumed the responsibility to give this country a new economic framework to confront; It has guaranteed - and I say this here too - a democratic seal. In fact, I believe that we all still have in our ears the demands for full power and social crushing that we have heard in those days. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] Today we can say that - on the one hand - with this maneuver is dealt with in a significant and important way the theme of overcoming the increase in VAT and - on the other - there is a change of general climate, to some extent testified also by the trend of spread and, consequently, of the interest rates that concern the cost of the debt of our country. In this House, in the speeches we have heard today, the accusation has been made that this maneuver does not have a strategic vision. Well, it is quite clear that it contains, first of all, a number of important actions in terms of equity and social sustainability. The theme of the family, with the additional 600 million for the baby bonus; the doubling of the nest bonuses to 3000 euros, which will allow a large slice of families to no longer pay the kindergarten for their children; the new construction of kindergartens; the establishment of the fund for the universal allowance for services to families; the interventions for the non self-sufficiency and the endowment of more than 30 million euros. This will bring the total budget for 2020 to EUR 80 million, for 2021 to EUR 200 million, which will rise to 300 in 2022. I would also like to mention the extension of the Social EPA and "Women's Option," all of which go in this direction; the health issue, already mentioned in the previous speeches, with the abolition of the superticket and the maintenance of the integration of EUR 2 billion into the National Health Fund. It had already happened in other seasons to have an increased endowment which, however, at the last moment, was reduced. This time, the Fund is maintained, with 2 billion integration. I still report the 1,200 scholarships for residents; the interventions for young people, linked to support for hiring and doing business, and the already mentioned 31 million for the right to study. These are very important signs, which go in the direction of a recovery of equity and social sustainability. Moreover, there is support for economic development; the intervention on the tax wedge and the interventions in support of Enterprise 4.0, which is also extended to the very small enterprises, with the refinancing of Sabatini, ACE, the building bonus. I quote the investments in R &amp; D with tax credit and the corrective contributions brought to Article 10 of the growth decree, invoked with a loud voice by the artisan world, which from that reform risked to be crushed. I would also like to point out the 100% contribution reductions, for three years, for apprentices; the bonus facades and interventions for agriculture, such as the very important possibility of access also for agricultural companies to the provisions referred to in Article 22-a of the draft law proposed by the Commission, which will now be included in a new paragraph, with reference to access to the tax credit for innovation; the interventions in support of micro-irrigations and all technological innovations; the organic farming fund, which will support the law on organic farming, which we will approve in the coming months; the prospects for biogas plants and the innovations introduced with regard to digestate, which will give tools and new perspectives to a very important sector. I also remember the issue of the green economy, with the investment of over EUR 50 million for the two funds in this area. 18.40 (Taricco follow-up). I would also like to mention the support given to local authorities and in particular the fact that the Solidarity Fund of the Municipalities will have an integration of EUR 100 million for 2020, which will become EUR 200 million in 2021, EUR 300 million in 2022, EUR 330 million in 2023 and EUR 560 million in 2024. These are fundamental and very important signals. Hundreds of millions of euros go to the municipalities, starting with the budget law before our examination until 2024 and I could quote dozens of other measures that go exactly in this direction. To say that all this testifies to an absence of vision I believe is an insult to the common sense of the citizens who are following us and who will be able to read the contents of the maneuver. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] The address is very clear: to avoid the increase in VAT, which would have resulted in an increase in costs between 500 and 600 euros for all households; to give breath to the economy; to introduce significant elements of equity and social sustainability. Surely we would have wanted to do much more. We would have liked to have introduced measures, which we have tabled through our amending proposals, but which did not find the "incest" within the framework of the resources, which we had available to deal with the maneuver under consideration. All I'm saying is that when we reason that we should have done more, we should be aware of what we have behind us, namely the maneuver of the previous year and the consequences it has introduced within the framework that we have been faced with. This move avoids increasing VAT by EUR 23 billion and already reduces the VAT clause by EUR 10 billion for the following year. Let me make two final notes. The first concerns the so-called increase in taxes and in particular plastic tax and sugar tax. It is simply a question of objective taxes, which have the objective of reorienting social behavior. I believe that, after the improvements introduced in the Commission, these rules have the tools to fully comply with the mission entrusted to them. I want to make a point: we cannot continue to have the contrite spirit when we see footage showing us plastic islands in the ocean, as big as the Iberian Peninsula, and then contest a rule that says to the economic and social world that you have to change address because the system no longer holds. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] Similarly, we cannot regret the exponential increase in obesity and food-related problems and then be shocked if we introduce a rule that discourages wrong eating behaviour. The second remark I want to make, to conclude quickly, is that we are about to approve the budget law with a vote of confidence and here I want to be very clear: last year we did not contest the fact that the maneuver was approved with a vote of confidence, but that this concerned a text that had been drafted elsewhere and that no one in the Commission had seen. Here we will vote for confidence in a text which has been the subject of a debate which, albeit with all the limits it has had, lasted many days and many nights in the budget committee. I conclude with this remark: we are definitely behind us and facing a very complex season, which could entail and bring to the country many risks. Someone in front of this painting, making demagogy and propaganda, has escaped with all the excuses of this world (we all remember the Papeete Beach and what happened after). MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). That's enough, that's enough! TARICCO (PD). Why is that enough? We're gonna remember why this stuff is screaming revenge in front of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Marin's comments.]] In this maneuver we assume the responsibility of giving difficult answers to a complex situation, with a group that still serves an insufficient closeness, but we are working on it. [[Comments by Senator Bergesio.]] We have given important answers to the country: this is an important contribution, which does not solve everything [[Comments of Senator Ripamonti]] , but I think it undoubtedly goes in the right direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u143	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u144	Mr President, we have now reached the final stage of the adoption of the budget law, the most important of the state, and we in the opposition and the League can peacefully declare that we have committed ourselves to improving this manoeuvre and reducing the impact of tax increases, without obstruction, exclusively with our proposals. We committed ourselves to a more balanced and equitable maneuver. We have not achieved the objectives we were hoping for, but we know that we have put all our efforts into it, especially our colleagues in the Budget Committee, Erika Rivolta, Roberta Ferrero, Antonella Faggi, Cristiano Zuliani and all the Senators of the Lega Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , who with their participation have accompanied us on this long path. The government has decided to put the question of trust on this maneuver after a single reading in the Senate, so it is an important and fundamental step, because the House will obviously ratify our decisions. The League's response to this request for trust is no: in fact, we do not believe that this manoeuvre is useful to the country and we certainly do not have any confidence in this Government; we have no confidence in a Government born with a single purpose, that of preventing the elections and that Matteo Salvini can win them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] And look that we do not say it: the true noble father of this Government PD-5 Stars has declared it over and over again, continuously and on many occasions, Matteo Renzi, since August. Let's say no to the confidence to a Government that with the politics of the open ports is again subjecting our Country to uncontrolled immigration: between September and November has recorded a more percent of landings regarding those of the three months correspondents of 2018. Let us say no to a government that in the ESM affair is demonstrating the worst of itself: hypocrisies, lies, contradictory declarations, opportunisms of all kinds and servility towards strong European powers. Let's say no to a government that with this agreement is demonstrating all its inability to defend the interests of Italian savers, families and workers, in short, the interests of our country. Let's say no to trusting a government that on the Ilva case is proving its inadequacy, with thousands of workers at risk of losing their jobs, in total indifference and inability of the government. Ours is also a no and above all to the economic policies contained in this budgetary maneuver, which is not moderately expansive, as you have continued to say. It will not be a maneuver that will lead to growth, it will be a maneuver that will lead to a recessionary phase in the economy of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Your budget law has rightly been renamed a "tax handling and handcuffs," in fact it introduces numerous taxes and jumps that will put into difficulty the competitiveness of important sectors of our production system, will cause the loss of jobs and eventually will weigh on the pockets of citizens when they go shopping. You do not deserve our trust and you certainly do not have the confidence of the country and the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You insist that by increasing your taxes, you automatically increase your income for the state's coffers. This conviction is pure madness; a very dangerous madness that must be fought absolutely. When the levy exceeds a certain threshold - and you have crossed it abundantly with your financial maneuvers in the past years, starting from that Monti - businesses, companies, craftsmen, traders, owners of any activity no longer pay taxes. They no longer pay taxes, but they are forced to close, fire and surrender, because of these crazy policies, the policies of the left. We do not think like you; we do not tax those who are already exhausted from taxes. The most obvious example was the introduction of the flat-rate scheme for VAT consignments. With this rule, which you have tried to break down, the number of VAT consignments has increased. There has been an emergence of part of the submerged, revenue has increased; this is the winning recipe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Italy tax revenues can only increase by lowering taxes, not raising them: put it in your head! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Your economic policies are insane and irresponsible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then we said that the one on our exam is also a maneuver of handcuffs. Why did we make this reference? Because for you, basically, an entrepreneur, a craftsman, a freelancer, a trader is, a priori and by definition, an evader. He's an evader and must be punished. For us, however, he is a worker who struggles every day against taxes and bureaucracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He is a worker who fights taxes and bureaucracy to survive, to keep his family, the jobs of his employees. You don't help them, but you treat them like thugs. You do it in the tax decree; you do it with rules and bureaucracy that do not affect the real evaders, but honest people. You are light years away from reality. For these reasons, not us, but the Italians do not trust you. We have introduced tax peace not to help the evaders, but to help families and owners of small businesses destroyed by the crisis and an unsustainable tax levy. You, with your rules, treat employers in an unacceptable way, not as those who have difficulty meeting certain tax deadlines to pay their employees and who declare it openly, treat them as evaders. We don't, we think we need to help get in line with the IRS to get back in the game and get back to work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To cancel more and sanctions and to indemnify debts with the tax is not to favor the evaders, but to have a minimum of common sense. Sometimes it is said that politics is all the same and there are no differences. Mr Laus (PD). I got it, I got it. TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There are differences, of course there are, and we are proud of that. We Senators of the League will not be complicit in a maneuvering taxes and handcuffs. We will not be complicit in those who will approve a maneuver that will lead our economy to recession. We will not be complicit in those who will increase unemployment in our country. We will not be complicit in those who risk the savings of Italians. We will not be complicit in those who will push an increasing number of Italians to emigrate abroad in search of better luck. We will not be accomplices to those who favour immigration without rules and controls and push young Italians to look for job opportunities in other countries, fleeing Italy. This is not Italy we want. This is not the future we want for Italians. We will vote on the Count-Renzi-Di Maio-Zingaretti-Monti maneuver. We will vote for the confidence of a government that still has the numbers in Parliament, but has never had them in the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This page of Italian politics will soon be closed. Go back to the vote as soon as possible. Give the word to the sovereign people. Let the citizens choose freely and democratically from those who want to be governed. You do not have the confidence: take note of it. No to this maneuver, no to the "cuffs and handcuffs" maneuver. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u145	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u146	Mr. President, I'm starting from the last story, the one about cannabis light. I would like to thank, on behalf of our Group, the President of the Senate for having applied the rules in an intimate manner: it was a rule outside the budgetary law. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have surreptitiously tried to introduce the human consumption of the so-called light cannabis, using a law that has nothing to do with it: one account is industrial production, one account is tax treatment, another account is the attempt to circumvent the judgment of the Cassation that put an end to the trade in light cannabis that hurts and badly. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There is no Senator Secret today, but I would like to ask the Presidency: when is it that we are outraged at the insults on the net? We are in solidarity with Senator Segre and anyone who has been insulted, but I inform you that on my Facebook page Rodolfo Roma, Diego Scognamiglio, Andrea Brunetto, Andrea La Causa, Salvatore Casaniello, Cosimo Chiurco, Matteo De Rio, Mirko Bussi and others, who do not share my opinions, have written serious insults and threats. Are threats only serious if they are addressed to you and are not serious if they are addressed to us? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Enough with this hypocrisy. I am in solidarity with all those threatened, but I ask the Presidency: what is the degree of seriousness? Are those of Forza Italia dung that can be insulted, or is it serious in the same way? That's what I'm wondering. Or, as happened this morning in Rai...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u147	Senator Gasparri, of course you can freely express your opinion, but you know very well that the establishment of that Commission was against any form. As it addresses the Presidency, the Presidency must respond. Of course you have your own point of view and of course you can continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u148	I've made names and surnames and I'm on Facebook. They're just as serious as the others. For God's sake, I do not want to compare with those who have suffered enormous tragedies, but it is not that the right to insult exists because one has not experienced tragedies. It's time to stop. The bill of the budget in our examination is ignoble: taxes on sugar and taxes on water, because then it is on water that you pay the tax: you want it public, but in reality you make it pay more, to the poor people, in plastic bottles. Nice public water. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Taxes of all kinds. You knelt down to the giants on the web. You have canceled the dry coupon on the rentals of the shops and favorite only the web giants, to which you have delivered yourself. You turned yourself in and I don't think for free. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But do you know that I proposed to bring the web tax to 15 percent? You know, ladies and gentlemen - I am talking mainly to the triggers, who like web giants so much - that Amazon in 2018 cashed 2.3 billion in Italy and paid 6 million euros, 0.25 percent, of taxes? It's disgusting, it's embarrassing! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And I wouldn't want anyone else to cash money in addition. The giants of the web must be taxed; the trade must be respected; the real estate must be taxed, because the shops close, killed by an economic crisis and excessive taxes. So you've made a law that you really need to file. The other day the Presidents of Confindustria Piemonte, Lombardy and Emilia Romagna issued a note to denounce the tax decree that combines with this maneuver, to say that the excess of investigations can lead to the paralysis of the companies. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have already sunk Whirlpool, Ilva, half Italian economy: do you want to kill the whole economy? I say this in particular to the PD: it will not be good for you to combine with incompetent, incompetent and irresponsible people who are destroying the Italian economy in a radical way. So ours is an ultra-convincing "no" to all these taxes and choices you've made. You didn't listen to us about the businesses, the beaches, the pertinentals; you didn't allocate at least one billion for security. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We applaud the fact that we saw our proposals on fire department shared, but we had asked for at least a billion for police force contracts and you didn't put it. Give the mafias their citizenship income and don't give the contract to the police. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] This is Grillo's policy, this is Di Maio's policy, this is reality! We are proud to have been in opposition since the beginning of this parliamentary term and to have defended the reasons of the family, businesses, trade and companies that have been massacred. And if any taxes have been filed and deferred, you haven't canceled it. And believe me, Bonaccini will lose the same, because the plastic tax is there and the companies, even those of the Emilia-Romagna Region, have seen that Government there is in Italy, so much so that they told the Ministers not to go to make the electoral campaign, because they fear its presence, but they fear above all the action. LANZI (M5S). What are you talking about? Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). So, Mr President, I think you can also scream about this. Back to the opening speech: having tried to use the law of stability to put cannabis light back into circulation was a shameful attitude. Shame! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] You prefer - as some colleagues have said - to tax sugar and circulate drugs. You've got the wrong jar in your house! It's white stuff, but maybe you wanted to detach the wrong one. Respect life, families and the Italian economy. Shame on you! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] LANZI (M5S). You're embarrassed! Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). You can postpone the vote, but you will not cancel the defeat of the inability and ignorance you represent. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u149	She's enlisted to speak Senator Matrisciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u150	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I thought long before I wrote this speech, because we have heard all sorts of things about this maneuver. It has been described as a measure that will impoverish Italians and businesses and that will lead to the loss of hundreds of jobs. In short, a kind of catastrophe that will fall on our lives and ruin them. This kind of news, or disinformation to better define it, has been so amplified and so enlarged that I myself felt the need to go and review the provision in its details, because I could not believe that the Movimento 5 Stars had made such a mess. Instead, I found a lot of substance and quality, a lot of good things, but that maybe someone didn't care to tell, just because they were valid and precisely because it was not possible that a majority born for two months could have done a team job in such a short time. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Laus]] The first word that comes to mind, thinking about this maneuver, is the word "responsibility." The term "responsibility" comes from the Latin responsus, past participle of the verb responder: to reciprocate or respond to a commitment, that is, in a general philosophical meaning, to undertake to respond to someone or to themselves of their actions and consequences. Yes, gentlemen, because it was precisely this: an act of responsibility. Put together a new government that could guarantee this country a budget law and prevent Italian citizens from increasing VAT, an increase that would have meant for every Italian family a cost of more than 500 euros. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We took this responsibility and went on, because it was the right thing to do. A number of things have been done in this maneuver and the main points have already been highlighted. But I would like to focus, in particular, on a number of interventions with which we have given concrete answers to workers, families, women and people with disabilities. For example, the fire department has been tripled the fund to finally adjust the salaries of an entire sector, more and more of others exposed to occupational risks such as accidents and accidents even fatal at work. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u151	Excuse me, Senator. Colleagues, this is the last speech we are debating, I think we can moderate the buzz, because it is difficult for the Presidency to listen as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u152	Please, Senator Matrisciano. MATRISCIAN (M5S). €65 million will be allocated for 2020 compared with €25 million initially planned; €125 million for 2021 and €165 million for 2022. Firefighters are always at the forefront when there is an emergency, but so far in Italy they had not had the same remuneration treatment as the other Forces of the Order. We are talking about an inexplicable delay since the law establishing the sector dates back to the 1960s. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Movimento 5 Stars spokesperson for the demands of this category, which deserves the respect of all of us, respect that we have demonstrated with the facts. Another concrete response is given through the INPS allocation of €7.2 million per year for three years from 2020. This measure will enable the institution to conclude agreements with doctors for thirty-five hours per week and thus fulfil the legal medical competence assigned to it, with particular regard to those of civil disability, also aiming to speed up bureaucratic procedures for the provision of welfare and social security benefits to citizens. The budget law then thinks of the workers buyouts, workers of companies in crisis who, remained unemployed because the company in which they worked failed or closed, chose to invest the liquidation in a cooperative of production and work and restarted the production to become entrepreneurs of themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The rule, inserted in the budget law, eliminates taxation on the early liquidation of the new employment social insurance (NASPI) for the purposes of Irpef for those who choose to invest the unemployment benefit in a work cooperative. Those who speak of tax maneuvering are false. Measures such as the tax facilitation introduced for workers buyouts, for example, demonstrate the exact opposite. The 5 Star Government and Movimento rely on those who have the courage to look to the future and choose not to give up by betting on the value of their skills and professionalism, maintaining and restarting production in areas of the country that otherwise risk to become impoverished. There are virtuous examples throughout Italy, such as that of the master brewers of the City of the Strait who, left out of work, have not lost heart and after years of darkness and integration have won a bet: they have managed to create a cooperative financed with their own TFR, to find the channels of financing, to develop an industrial plan and to restart the production of craft beer made with an art that has been handed down for generations. We then thought about families with children. The maneuver will also help mothers who, due to a disease, have to give up breast-feeding and do so with a contribution of 400 euros to buy the milk powder until the sixth month of life of the newborn. These are resources wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars and included in the amendments to the budgetary maneuver that had the green light from the Commission and designed for a welfare tailored to children and dedicated to families. From next year and until 2034 2.5 billion euros have been allocated for kindergartens. They will serve to build new childhood schools, to restructure and retrain existing ones, giving priority to disadvantaged areas and the outskirts of cities. Moreover, those who become parents from 1 January to 31 December 2020 will be able to count again on the baby bonus, the monthly cheque from 80 to 160 euros that moms and dads will be able to receive for a year based on income. In addition, the budget committee approved an amendment to the maneuver which facilitates companies and federations to the transition to the professionalism of sports women. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With my colleague Nannicini we did a good teamwork. Specifically, an incentive has been introduced for companies that conclude sports contracts with athletes: the exemption of the payment of 100 percent of social security and welfare contributions within the maximum limit of 8,000 euros on an annual basis. This is a very important step to allow Italian athletes to cultivate their sporting talent in a condition of ever greater equality with their male colleagues because, if there is an area in which gender inequality is tenaciously and obnoxiously present, it is that of sport and today, on the professionalism of the athletes, we finally move from words to deeds. What tax maneuver? Whoever says that is only in bad faith. Let's take another example. The three-year plan for disability and non-self-sufficiency contained in the draft budget law, which amounts to 1.3 billion euros since 2020, marks a very important record and lays the foundations for a new model of welfare able to put the person at the centre and adequately support families. The main novelty concerns the fund for non-self-sufficiency and disability, which will count on 580 million euros over the next three years, to which are added 150 million euros of the fund for the right to work of disabled workers and 35 million euros of the fund for the caregiver family. In Italy there are more than three million people with disabilities and families with at least one person with disabilities are about 2.3 million. A disabled person is often forced to choose between personal and work care activities at the expense of a disabled person and to use paid services. With this intervention we have shown great sensitivity and attention to one of the most fragile sections of the population. As for the LSU, we have finally put an end to the 25-year-old precarious. Thanks to the work of Senator Auddino, who has been working there for more than a year, more than 6,000 workers can be hired indefinitely by 2020 in Calabria, Campania, Basilicata and Puglia, by way of derogation from the assumptions and historicalizing the sums. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have unlocked the rankings of eligible non-compete winners so that public administrations will be able to recruit from 2020 in case of need. Last, but not least, is the timely and most necessary response that protects every form of compensation directed to all orphans of feminicide, but that immediately resolves the case of the daughters of Cristina Biagi, killed by her husband in 2013. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Laus]] Thanks to Catalfo, Bonetti and Lamorgese, the Feminicide Commission has been able to team up with the Government and the INPS and has been presented a sub-amendment that has found an excellent solution: the expenses compensation will be covered by an existing fund at the Ministry of the Interior for solidarity with the victims of the crimes of the mafia type, of the extortive demands and of the usury and of the intentional crimes. This and much more is in this maneuver, a maneuver that has been carried out thanks to the parliamentary work of the various political forces that make up this majority and that increasingly have to learn to do teamwork, if we want to achieve important goals for the Italians. We do not go on with the slogans, because it is not on these that we will be judged: we will be judged for what we will do, for concrete actions, for the solutions that we will bring to the country, that needs to regain confidence in politics and institutions. That's what we're here for today. We will vote for this measure and once again take responsibility for what we do. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Precisely because together with the word responsibility the word trust is the other key word of this maneuver, I would like to close with a phrase of John Paul II: "Confidence is not acquired by force. Not even a statement is made. Trust must be deserving of it with concrete gestures and facts. Let's move on. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u153	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u154	I am grateful to the House for the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which established that the explanations of vote on confidence will begin at 7.15 p.m. on live television. He'll follow you. Once trust has been voted, the sitting will be suspended at around 9.30 p.m. to allow the Government to present the Note of Variations which will be sent immediately to the 5th Commission. It will then follow the vote of the Note of variations and the final vote of the draft budget law with the presence of the quorum. The Conference of Leaders also agreed that the Commissions already convened for tomorrow should be deported for the renewal of the vacant posts of their respective Presidency Offices. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to allow us to prepare for live television, I will suspend the sitting, which will resume at 7.15 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.13 p.m. and resumed at 7.16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u157	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, politics often lacks memory, so it hardly remembers that this budget law was created to remove first of all a mortgage on Italians of 23 billion left by previous governments. The increase in VAT would have pushed a stagnant economy into a new phase of recession, giving a very hard blow to the productive realities and businesses also in border areas. This result is achieved mainly through a comparison with Europe and with measures to recover that tax evasion which is a matter of social justice no longer postponed because, as the President of the Republic has mentioned, it is really an indecency. A huge sum, 119 billion, that would allow you to lower taxes for those who pay them, to increase salaries and pensions: those who do not pay do not understand that you live together. That is why I believe it is right to stress that the significance of this move is above all in these elements and at the beginning of a path to reducing labour costs, which will have to continue in the coming years, if we really want to create a tangible benefit for the middle class which, on the one hand, has paid for the difficulties of the macroeconomic framework and, on the other hand, has not benefited from the redistributive measures of these years, from the 80 euros to the income of citizenship. A framework that can be shared, while knowing, with the same honesty, that looks very timidly at the structural problems of our country and our economy: the low productivity of the entrepreneurial system, the excessive bureaucracy, the excessive tax pressure. It will therefore take the next few months to judge the Government on its real intentions in the economy; it will certainly take the January review announced to see if the new agenda will indicate a convincing path in this regard. However, I would like to highlight some of the improvements that have been made during the examination in the Commission. The main one is the correction of the plastic tax that, in the initial versions, risked to severely penalize the companies. Ecological conversion must be socially sustainable, through a path that accompanies businesses and citizens and that is not based solely on fiscal leverage. If anything, this must be the landing point of a journey, but certainly not a starting point, otherwise the green question will be perceived only as a pretext for cashing out. A small but concrete example is in our amendment, incorporated in the text, for the addition of hydrogen vehicles to those powered by an electric or hybrid nature for the new purchases of cars in the public administration. Good also the grip on the game, on condition, also in this case, that they put in field stronger instruments against the ludopathy and for a responsible game. Italians spend as much in the game as the state spends on the national health service. There is a social problem that must be attacked from all points of view. Very well the revision of Article 10 of the growth decree, which meets the craftsmen and small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the fields of building renovations and energy efficiency. Already in the process of that decree-law, as self-employed, we had tabled an amendment asking for its abolition, because the risk of generating liquidity crises for small businesses was very concrete. As far as our territories are concerned, this bill transposes some of our demands. Important is the amendment on the deductibility of IMI in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, which harmonises and extends the national rules on deductions introduced with the growth decree. Of great importance for South Tyrol-Südtirol is the rule that excludes companies from the additional contribution to seasonal work, healing a tax injustice against sectors that, by their very nature, certainly cannot proceed to the stabilization of workers and therefore, for this reason, cannot be fiscally affected. But I am also thinking of the extension at the end of 2023 on hydroelectric concessions, which aligns Trento and Bolzano with the national deadline, thus guaranteeing access to the market for the realities of the sector. In this case it is an amendment tabled by the oppositions, in particular the League, which we strongly supported in the Commission. The amendment that concerns Valle d'Aosta is also very important: 15 million euros for three years, to be allocated to the protection of the Alpine environment, whose ecosystem is of fundamental importance for the whole country. On the social front, there is the adoption of the proposal that greatly simplifies bureaucracy for the Voluntary Firefighters Corps with the exclusion from the application of the Procurement Code. This rule has the merit of recognizing the value and therefore of facilitating that volunteering that plays a fundamental function of defense and protection of the territory; a theme of extraordinary importance, in a country that, increasingly, shows its fragility and that therefore needs the contribution and extraordinary work of the firefighters and of all those subjects who, on a voluntary basis, operate for civil protection. With regard to paragraphs 611 and 612, on changes to the state tax disciplines which could have an impact on local finances, I regret that the text I proposed and approved unanimously (majority and minority) by the Budget Committee has not been boiled down by the General Accounting Office of the State. Above all, I find it hard to see the technical problem, unless there is something else to do with the technique. However, I welcome the political will expressed in the Commission. I also appreciate the desire, always political, not to question Articles 79 and 104 of the Special Statute of autonomy as defined by the Agreement between the State and the Autonomous Province of Bolzano of 2014. However, this measure can be considered as a starting point - I hope useful - in the bilateral confrontation between the State and the Province in the field of public finance, which will soon have to be started. A separate reflection deserves to be given on the renewal of the Brenner motorway, the A22. We had a very close confrontation with the Government in order to overcome the norm of revision of the criteria of depreciation of the devolvable goods to the State at the end of concession, that it would have strongly compressed the planning tied to the new concession. For this I am grateful to the Government, with which we have also reached an agreement to extend the concession for a further six months. However, this extension should not be a pretext for overshadowing, but should be used to finally close this dossier: on this, as a Group For the Autonomies, we are ready to continue the confrontation with the Government and carry it forward with the utmost responsibility and commitment. To conclude, Mr President, I believe that the Commission has carried out a difficult, bumpy work, not least for the different positions even within the majority. All this in order to say that the work of the speakers Stefano and Accoto and President Pesco was really valuable: if we have an improved text we owe it to their commitment and to the equally decisive one of the undersecretaries Misiani, Castelli, Malpezzi and Castaldi. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed]] This maneuver has the merit of sheltering the country. It is not the best of the possible manoeuvres; it is adequate for the political and economic conditions that have been given to us. We must now take the path of growth and simplification decisively, with great attention to the maintenance and social cohesion, a point of balance to be sought in order to put in place a new and convincing model of development (this will be the challenge of the coming months); all this also through that path of strengthening the special autonomy, but also that of the Regions with ordinary statutes, which for us will be an important bench of judgment and evaluation on this Government. It is with this commitment that I announce the favorable vote of the Group For the Autonomouss to the bill of budget [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u160	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, many have questioned the soul of this manoeuvre. Well, it is based on three fundamental points: more equity, starting from a finally serious fight against tax evasion, promoting growth based on ecological transition, relaunching welfare and universal welfare. In fact, the country needs this, not propaganda: it needs concrete facts. The opposition speaks of taxes, but it is a fact that the sterilization of VAT actually proposes to the Italian families not to spend 400-500 euros per year; it is a fact that through the choice to reduce the tax wedge it will be possible for the workers with income up to 36,000 euros to have 500 euros per year more and in 2021 1,000 euros per year more; from the middle of the year will no longer pay the superticket, an odious leap that was producing the fact that tens of thousands of people renounced the cure and universal health service. I would like to say to my colleagues that overall there will be more than 28 billion less taxes for Italian citizens. In 2020, thanks to the work done in the Commission with the Government, the debate and the listening ability that the Executive and the majority have demonstrated, the taxes on plastic, corporate cars and sugar will weigh a total of EUR 200.1 million against a starting hypothesis that went beyond EUR 2 billion. You hurt to speak ill of your country; it is not true that the business system will suffer an indispensable blow. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, PD and M5S Groups]] That's not true, it's a lie! Attention, though, we have done something else. You're talking about families, but we put an extra withdrawal on the profits of the big dealers. Yes, we have, because this is called redistribution of income and levy; it is not addressed to citizens. Colleagues, as far as these dealers are concerned, these tariffs are contracted and not increased by automatic tariffs; you know that, and we must tell the Italians because we have done a fair deal in redistributing the tax burden. Inside this, there is also the other fundamental choice: the fight against evasion. Colleagues, it is useless for us to divide ourselves on this point: we do not want to penalise or criminalise any category, no form of enterprise. Through technology, finally, you will be able to fight that shame that it is at least 109 billion euros of failure to enter the treasury, the reason why this country is so in difficulty in the ability to support. We do not want to hit anyone and we want to build a debate on tax reform in the coming months, starting with Irpef. The criterion is only one: proportionality and those who have the most, the more they have to pay, and those who pay the taxes must have the opportunity, with this policy, to see them reduced. This is the strategic choice we make. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that our country struggles to grow, it grows little, and we also face another major emergency, and the failure of the Madrid Summit is a serious fact. I am referring to the climate emergency. This government makes this choice: it chooses to work on the ecological transition, on the energy transition; it aims to build support policies, with refinancing to Industry 4.0, the tax credit for innovation, for the first time extended also to agriculture, investments for infrastructure, the growth fund for the South. Tax deductions for energy redevelopment, building renovation and the bonus earthquake are confirmed. These are important choices that try to help citizens and families first of all. I do not think we can continue to ignore this issue. The great climate issue poses the need to construct a synthesis, to invest in conversion, but this conversion must start; decarbonisation must become a reality, otherwise we will not make any progress. Then there is a turning point in this maneuver: the turning point in health care. Finally 2 billion euros more on the National Health Fund, 2 billion euros of investments, to reach - in the coming years - 10 billion euros. New hires, 1,200 bags for residents. I'd like to say something to my colleagues. I hear many colleagues say that we need to cut current spending and make investments. Look at the fact that spending on health care in the health fund is an investment expenditure, because there are businesses, pharmaceuticals, research, millions of people who live and grow in their income and experience thanks to the great health system. It's a turning point. As is a turning point the choice made on the family: the baby bonus, the choice on kindergartens nest. Yes, all right, we have a long way to go, but for the first time on the house there is a clear choice: the rent fund is being refinanced and resources are being put in place to relaunch the construction of public housing, which has been going on for more than a decade now. Then there are resources for the disabled, for the non-self-sufficiency, for the right to study. In the given situation (that, colleagues, you have left us), we have outlined a strategy and a project for the future of the country. The majority discussed, but we learned to work together. Enough with the controversy and we carry on this project that Italy absolutely needs. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]] (19.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u163	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister for Health, ladies and gentlemen, Italy Viva will vote for confidence and welcome the fact that VAT will not increase, a very strong risk in August and avoided the work of everyone. However, a premise is needed for this debate. We often talk about honesty, honesty, honesty. Well, there is an intellectual honesty that we owe to this House. This majority must also apologise to the opposition when it comes to the positive result, because for the second consecutive year, a branch of Parliament will not be able to discuss the budget law in depth. We contested this when we were in opposition, and we also appealed to the Constitutional Court. Today, the majority of us have a duty to apologise to the opposition and to the President of the Republic, who called us to a different method. Without intellectual honesty there is no possibility of going to analyze the outcome of this budget law [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr President of the Senate, you see more than half a full glass for us. VAT does not increase. More money for health care: but not now, Senator Errani, but since 2013. The money for work is increasing and we are pleased that the increase of 20-30 euros per month for each worker is now hailed as a victory; it is so for us, at least as was the increase of 80 euros that someone considered a tip instead. More money for the family, thanks to the work of Minister Elena Bonetti, and for agriculture, thanks to the work of Minister Teresa Bellanova. We have highlighted with the Gruppo Italia Viva, with our colleagues Mr Beginini, Mr Consatti and Mr Parente, the extraordinary work done in recent months. However, there is a problem. The problem is that this country, which was to abolish poverty, last year abolished growth, especially because of three mistakes, which for us were resounding, made by the previous government: quota 100, the strategy of tax allowances and the measure (which we do not share, but which we have respected because of the majority commitment), of citizenship income. The fundamental point is that it has not been a beautiful year. It was not for Italy, in a picture in which everything around us is changing with a certain speed. The roaring 1920s of this century will see the United States and China discussing, arguing and fighting. England or, better, the United Kingdom of Boris Johnson will face Brexit with an extraordinary investment in tax incentives, worrying for a European Union that is capable of having common rules for the budget but not for the tax. Luxembourg and Ireland continue to make us unfair competition. The world goes east and everyone stresses the importance of artificial intelligence, not realizing the extraordinary difficulty and fragility that Chinese friends have, for example, on the issue of energy and Indian friends on the subject of water. In this scenario, in which NATO seems to succumb from the geopolitical point of view (so much that President Macron speaks of "brain death"), what is the role that Italy wants to play? Just to chase and be a spectator? What is our role on space, robotics and life sciences, at a time when fortunately we live longer, but isn't it said that we live better? On all these issues, in our opinion, we need a choice of field, that of truth against demagogy. That is why on the issue of plastic tax and sugar tax, in respecting the compromise, which Senator Errani referred to, we think that in the coming months Parliament will have to intervene. Senator Errani said that we recovered 28 billion euros of taxes and so what do you want it to be 200 million euros [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] But then, "made 30, let's make 31," because plastic tax is not a theme that will help our beloved fish to live in the ocean in a simpler and more polite way, but will lead our workers in Emilia-Romagna to live with greater difficulties. It's a bit what happened in 2011, when it was decided to wage war at the shipbuilding district thinking of hitting the rich and they went to hit the workers who couldn't reach the end of the month. The same goes for the sugar tax. We think that a great investment in environmental education is right, but it is not the culture of the traffic light - which the Anglo-Saxon countries want - what it needs, because it risks paradoxically hitting Italian companies (even those that use Turkish hazelnuts, which are always Italian). The fundamental point, friends and colleagues, is that we must reflect on which Italy we want for the next ten years and not be discussing simplistic and demagogic measures. For this reason, making Italy the Silicon valley of the circular economy is possible, not by cashing with taxes, but by investing in technological transformation and environmental innovation. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] You have to tell the truth, always. Mr. President of the Senate, Mark Twain said: A lie does in time to travel half the world while the truth is still putting its shoes on. We have seen it on banking. Yesterday the government gave the green light to an important decree to save the People's Bank of Bari, finally making truth, telling that who saves savers and workers is not a friend of bankers but a person who cares about the future of businesses and territory. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We have said this for a long time, even when there was no public money in the banks, which is what is being done today. If that intervention could be made, it is because the reform of the popular banks, which two great characters of this country, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi and Mario Draghi, had asked Parliament in vain in 1998, was finally realized. The day will come when, while the truth ties its shoes, lies will cease to circulate, against the seriousness of those who have chosen responsibility and not hypocrisy. We have chosen to give life to this Government and we believe that it needs stability. Stability has a number in this budget law, 59, like the billions of euros we will have to invest to recover the cost of interest. This is a huge figure: the Italian public debt will cost us 59 billion euros, but in 2013 the billions of euros were 77, a sign that, with the reform work that this Parliament can do, with stability and thanks to quantitative easing, we can reduce it and reach 50, which is less evocative than 100 quota, but which is more important for our country. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] But stability, gentlemen of the government, cannot be immobility. There is a problem of growth in the country and Italy Viva will propose, after the regional elections in Emilia-Romagna, a shock plan to unlock 120 billion euros on the yards. If we don't unlock the yards, we won't be able to restart this country's economy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] And as you all say, it'll be the case that we'll finally see. I find a certain enthusiasm of my colleagues in the League, who are obviously Europeanists on even days, and in odd days they are anti-European. I want to say to my colleagues in the League that I believe the words of their leaders, perhaps more than they do, and that obviously, if the anti-European hangover that three days ago led to trying to bring the government down on the ESM and today comes to imagine a government of national unity led by Mario Draghi, in a nice tarantella that surely deserves to be deepened, and if they really want to be serious and responsible towards this Parliament, the shock plan on the yards is at their disposal to show if really at the center of the interest of the country there is the need to unblock the public works or to continue with the polemics. For our part, Mr President, and I am about to close, we think that a living Italy is already there: it is the one that cannot accept the idea that a worker, an entrepreneur or a craftsman is a potential evader and it is the one that today in this Parliament says that it is time to end it with those who continue to fuel meaningless polemics: it is the time to unblock the yards rather than unlock the polemics. However, this living Italy, which is and is out of here, awaits us on the lookout, because 2020 cannot be defined yet a beautiful year. It is the year of choices: either this time it is serious or zero growth will swallow everyone. We are on the side of those who try, believe and do not deny the confidence of the Government, but ask for a change of pace, so that 2020 is the year of restart to return to the levels of growth that we have experienced in the past. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u166	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, we members of the Budget Committee are drawn from an intense marathon that has seen us as protagonists in assessing not only the budgetary maneuver but the more than 4,500 amendments tabled by majority and opposition. Allow me to thank the Commission, the majority and minority rapporteurs and Mr Pesco very quickly, because for the first time this year we have at least been able to deepen the issues related to this budgetary manoeuvre. The work we have done in the Commission over the past few weeks has confirmed what each of us thought. Nobody likes this budgetary manoeuvre, neither the economic and social groups that we heard at the hearing, nor, above all, our colleagues in this majority, who are preparing to vote on it today. I say this because I want to remind my colleagues who have tabled thousands of amendments to the budget law that in these cases a question arises spontaneously, as a journalist said many years ago: where were you when your government wrote this budget law? You see, Mr President, this is a maneuver that no one likes, as I said before, but especially we, the Brothers of Italy, who have also tried to be proactive, and have approved the Budget Commission a number of amendments which have given positive responses to the weaker groups. I want to go with order to provide a clear picture and explain the aspects of this manoeuvre that absolutely do not convince us. It is a maneuver of almost 32 billion euros, of which more than 16 in debt with a deficit-GDP ratio almost 2.3%. Last year I was not in this House, Mr President, because I was not yet a senator, but I remember the mess that arose when the manoeuvre of the then yellow-green government was supposed to be 2.4 percent deficit. Europe told us that we could not make that kind of maneuver and then the government changed it, from 2.4 to 2.04 deficit. I did not understand and I would like the Government, here with the Undersecretary Misiani, to enlighten us in order to understand why a 2.4% maneuver was not possible last year and is instead possible today at 2.3%. You see, ma'am, let's make a maneuver, and we're overreacting. It is not that we of Brothers of Italy are in principle opposed to producing deficits, but if we produced deficits for investments and if these investments were to bring growth, then all this would make sense. It is a fact that in this case growth is not there; says the Government, which sets the growth of Italy at 0.6 per cent, reducing the previous estimates that were all too optimistic. The European Union also says this, which even estimates growth of 0.4%. It cannot escape anyone who is the European Union's taillight. To grow, we need investments, infrastructure and to secure our territory. None of this is in this budget law that we have before us and that will probably determine a path for Italy for the next year that will make us lose another year. However, for intellectual honesty, I also want to consider some positive aspects of the maneuver, as Mr Errani said. I am referring in particular to avoiding the increase in VAT; it cost EUR 23 billion which, at least on paper, should - I use the conditional - save something for the Italian people. However, we would have liked that with the same intellectual honesty with which we recognize this merit, the Government had told us more clearly that the problem will only be postponed until next year, when we arrive with another 19 billion that will even become almost 26 in 2022. Another very shy aspect to focus attention on is the attempt to reduce the tax wedge, which concerns only the reduction of taxes on employees, which obviously does not affect companies. However, we fear that this timid attempt, EUR 3 billion in 2020 and EUR 5 billion in 2021, will do little. Each worker will have an average paycheck of 40 euros more, around 500 euros per year. You have then moved the terms for the entry into force of this measure so that instead of 40 euros, employees will be able to take around 60 euros; mathematics, however, unfortunately for you, is not an opinion and therefore adding the addends, the result does not change. If with this measure you thought in some way to move consumption, allow us to be somewhat skeptical about it because the real theme is not to be able to give an electoral tip, as has been done in the past to our employees, but to understand how to reduce the costs of companies. Unfortunately, you do not do anything about it. Give 40 euros or something more to employees, but don't solve the real problem of Italy: the very high cost of labour that discourages investment. No wonder, Mr. Undersecretary, Whirlpool or ArcelorMittal are leaving our country. A courageous maneuver would have aimed at reducing labour costs seriously and encouraging recruitment. This would have been the real engine to restart Italy. The reduction in labour taxes that you expect to be positive is, however, very limiting; much more could and had to be done. Unfortunately, however, we must note that, rather than doing this, you have preferred EUR 16 billion of deficits to maintain your citizenship income, and we know that we are very sorry. We of Brothers of Italy certainly do not tell you today that the income of citizenship has never convinced us. What we tell you today is that citizenship income has failed its mission and you also know it by reading the newspapers, statistics and what you yourself wrote in the Update Note to the DEF that citizenship income has not produced active policies of support for work. This is also stated by the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), a public society operating in the field of active policies. This agency noted that only 18,000 jobs were created out of one million applications. So we had to spend this €7 billion of citizenship income to help companies hire those who really wanted to work. You can't give 7 billion to anyone who sits on the couch without doing anything, dealing or defrauding the state. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] But above all we cannot pay these people with the money of those who work honestly and very often perhaps for 700 euros per month. The approach of this budget law is to annoy citizens and complicate their lives with dozens of micro-balzelli and dozens of micro-taxes that serve to hide the increase in the tax levy and to make the Italy system less competitive compared to the rest of the advanced countries. This maneuver, as I said before, does not produce growth, condemns Italy to be the taillight of the European Union, finances the electoral tips of this Government - like the income of citizenship - and leaves aside the investments for a real revival of the Italian economy. In addition, it is fierce against VAT matches, it is fierce against traders, artisans, professionals and individual citizens because of an ideological prejudice - all left - so we think of these categories as categories of tax evaders. 19.55 (Followed by Mr Calandrini). So, your philosophy is to tax sugary drinks and tax plastic when we need work, trust and opportunity. As I heard when we started working on this budget maneuver in the Commission, President Zingaretti of the PD dealt with the ius soli, when in twenty years two million Italian boys left the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Thousands of young Italians, most of them graduates, who leave. You deny the homeland to these young people and within this budget law do not think of them, but think only of the rights of those who want to come to our nation. It can't work like this. We have therefore tried to change this maneuver, aware that with your ideological closure our proposals would not be welcomed. But in the end we are optimistic, Mr President, because we know that if you, the majority of you, are a tax and stagnation present, we in the centre-right are a future of growth and innovation. So we will wait, very patiently, our turn, which will surely come. We will wait for it to touch us, hoping that it will be our turn as soon as possible, when you deign to get up from those armchairs to which you are glued to finally send to the vote the Italians, give them a government that represents them and that knows how to do their interests, but even more so the interests of the Italian people. Mr President, I thank you for the time you have given me and I say clearly that for these reasons - which I have briefly mentioned - the vote of the Brothers of Italy on this budgetary manoeuvre will be against. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u169	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, economic maneuvering will accompany our country on the tracks of a new growth, a growth that is certainly still insufficient, but at the same time able to take us away from several recessive quarters. It gives us back, after a year of conflict and isolation, our natural European location: a centrality in Europe for Italy indispensable to generate confidence and manage the balance of public finance balances. Twelve months have passed since the Legist and sovereignist utopia against Europe. The consequences were and remain evident: the isolation of Italy on the one hand, the overestimate of growth at 1.5% and the underestimation of the effects of debt at 2.4% on the other, led us to a step from the infringement for excessive debt: a cost due to the spread at 300 of 11 billion euros to be borne by Italian citizens. There, fellow Senators of the League, dwells your failure; there comes your summer flight from the responsibilities of Government. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We clearly say "never again" because our reference are Italian families and companies [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which we want to accompany to a new growth, with access to the credit system certainly selective and rigorous, but oriented with low interest rates to growth. Our Government is born in the responsibility that we owe to Italian families and businesses. Everyone knows that, for a virtuous debt management, trust is indispensable and that confidence in the country is worth 38 billion euros over the four years: an entire budget law, indispensable resources that in the coming years will be directed towards better support for the family and parenthood, to remove Italy from an unsustainable curve, represented by the very low birth rate and an unbearable ageing of the population; 38 billion euros of savings for a virtuous and effective debt management, thanks to a recovery of centrality and responsibility in the European dimension. The budget law is also characterized by another important axis for the future of our country: a green investment plan, the green new deal, 50 billion euros in full relation to the policies of the new European Commission. A new Europe that in the new legislature must overcome the fiscal compact, reform the internal stability pact and clearly indicate a large investment plan anchored in the circular economy and environmental sustainability. For the Democratic Party are these, fellow senators, the identity and vision of the budget law. The environment and environmental sustainability of economic policies will not be a brake on development; as we know, on the other hand, taking the path of innovation, artificial intelligence and research courageously means building a new and more qualified economic development in the circular economy, which will transform fear and uncertainty into hope and future, above all towards the youngest, the youngest generations operating in the research and education system. The maneuver also returns centrality to the work, which had disappeared in the budget law of 2019 (where everything was aimed at the income of citizenship and at 100). Restoring centrality to work for us is indispensable and fundamental, because work is not only dignity and is not just an article in our Constitution (a Republic based on work); three billion euros less taxes in 2020 (five in 2021) will increase workers' wages, support domestic consumption and reduce inequalities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that this is another fundamental element of the identity of the maneuver. If we add the EUR 50 million introduced by fruitful work in the Commission on the dual system, investment in ITS and apprenticeship and we support all this to Industry 4.0 and its necessary extension also to the agricultural sector, we hold labour and capital in the same hand. When competitiveness takes place in the high segment of development, there are more rights and more wages for workers. This is the heart of the second European manufacture that Italy represents. This is a serious industrial plan, which you ask us and which you do not identify and which instead this maneuver radicalizes in its identity for the future of our country. Certainly the maneuver is a first step, the first step, but the path we have taken is a right path, which marks in the wake of equity a new economic growth and a new industrial profile also for the development of our country. The reduction of the tax burden and the fight against evasion are held by the hand. Yeah, let's reduce the tax burden, other than tax maneuvering. It is a maneuver that reduces taxes: 23 billion euros in order to sterilize the safeguard clauses and avoid the increase of VAT are a certainty, not only the reasons for which this Government was born, in respect and responsibility towards Italian citizens; 3 billion less tax wedges are another certainty, but in the parliamentary passage we worked together with the Government to review the tax burden of some taxes, starting with plastic tax and sugar tax, which have been aligned not only protecting from tax the recycling, reuse and circular economy, but reducing its impact and preparing a necessary industrial plan of the sector, for example, plastics, which must be oriented towards the circular economy and support for new growth. The tax burden is reduced in absolute terms and in relation to GDP in the three-year programming. However, we will be able to reduce taxes if we overcome the challenge of tax evasion. Tax evasion does not only involve lower revenues for the state, it does not only represent the odious inequality between those who pay and those who escape. Tax evasion sowes illegal areas into work and the economy and drives competitiveness down. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are saying no to new condones and yes to e-invoicing, e-money, digitalisation of data for a public administration 2.0 that can reduce the bureaucratic burden, which unfortunately still insists on businesses and eats profitability and spaces for growth. This is another pillar of the cultural and political project contained in this maneuver. Finally, the maneuver increases the resources for health by eliminating the superticket, but above all by relaunching the hospital investments together with the free kindergartens. These are and are key elements of the enlargement of citizenship rights, the improvement of universal access to fundamental benefits for all. This is another essential cultural heritage of our country that makes the universal access system a system that holds together what citizens pay for the services we provide to our communities. There are increasing investments that we have devoted in Parliament's work in the Commission to non-self-sufficiency (50 million more) and fundamental social dynamics. For example, there are a thousand extra residents. They are investments; they are not expenditure items for us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are essential chapters for improving the right to health and fundamental investments in the territorial system. Let us never forget: one of the most critical areas we have to face lives in the territorial dimension. Non-self-sufficiency is a crucial issue; it concerns our country and requires a territorial response to increase services to people. Together with all this, the choices made with regard to the system of local authorities are another element that opens up a new season in the relations between the State and territorial self-governments, a fundamental element in boosting investment and improving services to people. We've made an important manoeuvre. We brought her here. I want to thank the entire Democratic Party Group, together with the rapporteurs, the Deputy Ministers, the Undersecretaries. It was a collegial work. When a maneuver comes in with the rapporteur in this House, it means that we have had the responsibility and the ability to develop together a confrontation with oppositions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There's a difference. No Member in this House can say that he has given up amending the budget law or he can deny the possibility of voting on amendments in the Commission. All of this last year has been prevented from us and it is the structural reason for the appeal we have made to defend the credibility of Parliament and democracy, which is incompatible with the demand for full powers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is our cultural approach and these are the essential elements. That is why we express a conviction towards the confidence that we are preparing to vote, but also towards a maneuver that has a precise identity and that will certainly be in the condition to represent a first stage for the economic and social development of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u172	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my thanks to all the members of the Budget Committee for the marathon and all the work they have done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Astorre and Marcucci]] I especially thank the members of the Commission of our Group, the Senators Ferrero, Tosato, Rivolta, Faggi and Zuliani, who are around me, because thanks to their determination and strength they were able to bring home a billion from here to 2026 for the Milan-Cortina Olympics, great result for the whole country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But let's start with the political issue. We have been told from the beginning, with the usual refrain, that we had to avoid the increase in VAT, the famous safeguard clauses, giving basically the fault to the previous government. This time, however, the game fails, because the previous Government is, in half, the current Government itself, indeed with the same President of the Council, I would say a case more unique than rare in republican history. The second reason is that if you go to read the technical report made in the maneuver voted at the end of December 2017 ( 2018 budget) by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, of those 23 billion well 19 are the ones that you left us in inheritance. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So tell Minister Gualtieri, who I do not see present in the Chamber - I also see absent the President of the Count Council - that more than the Papeete account the Italians today are paying the debts of seven years of Government of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's the usual three-card game (pick-ups, take-outs, take-outs) but the citizens have now understood. You could have stopped there, however, begging the increase in VAT, and probably the Italians would have also thanked you, given the intellectual honesty and some other measures such as the reduction of the ticket and the cutting of the wedge, even if to a very small extent, that we certainly judge positive. But then you wanted to put yours and then came the all tax maneuver, because the key word, if you did a computer search within the maxi amendment, would be just tax: plastic tax, sugar tax, Robin tax, tax on company cars (so on the one hand give the money to the workers, on the other you remove them by putting the tax on company cars), the increase of excises on gasoline. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With regard to safeguard clauses, 800 million more in 2020, 1.2 billion in 2021, 1.5 billion in 2022, 1.6 billion in 2023, 1.7 billion in 2024: you have more than five billion safeguard clauses and increased petrol that will be there since 2021. Not only that, but you have even increased the payout tax, the so-called fortune tax. Well, it would be appropriate not to play too much with luck, as the saying says. More than anything else because last year the President of the Count Council told us that it would be a beautiful year and we grew by 0.1. This year he said that the maneuver will be moderately expansive and what do we have to expect? To go below zero? Let's touch iron that's probably better. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The President of the Council himself, Count, spoke of a tax of purpose (I have also heard some of your colleagues speak about it). Yes, the basic purpose of making cash, why does plastic tax have to do with the theme of environmental respect? We all agree that it bothers us to see the oceans full of plastic, but the fault is with those who throw plastic at it, not those who produce it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Consumer education and incentives were needed for our companies to actually undergo eco-friendly transformations. The same goes for the sugar tax: the president of the Italian sugar chain Centopercento said that we will basically give market shares to France and Germany with this operation [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] and our companies will in fact be forced to go to produce abroad, helping to depress investment. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, we have listened silently and I would like not to be interrupted. [[Call the president back.]] Also because on these two taxes, plastic tax and sugar tax we record the fact that, in words, Senator Renzi and his party Italy Viva declare themselves opposed, but in fact they vote for the trust of a Government that these taxes establish and insert them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We know that you, Senator Renzi, are a world champion of triple carpiato death jump, but at least a minimum of consistency would also be necessary on your part when talking about certain issues. With the maneuver you have put in place, you have also created a persecutory climate towards citizens and, on the other hand, a depression towards the economy: the fight against cash, the grip on compensation debts and tax credits; we had handcuffs to the evaders and stakes his flat tax. It really seems that your intent and your objective were to show all your distrust of self-employed workers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , towards those who have constituted for years the middle class of our country. MIRABELLI (PD). Fight the escape! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). You have eliminated the flat tax, already financed from 65,000 to 100,000 euros, which would give breath to many professionals who have suffered the most from the economic crisis. You eliminated the dry coupon on the rents for the shops. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] But how, we tear our clothes to the expansion of Amazon and then eliminate the only measure that could give hope to a sector that was really in trouble? Is that respect for the middle class? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Because of your obsession with traceability of all commercial, financial and cash-limiting transactions, in the end the result is that people are afraid to spend and no longer spend. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The data is clear. Istat has recently experienced the collapse of the consumer confidence index, even to a minimum since July 2017; industrial production has dropped by 0.6% in the last three months. MIRABELLI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). If we think about the cases of Whirlpool, Alitalia and Ilva, it comes to mind that the President of the Count Council - he is not present here, but we say so to the representative of the Government present in the Chamber - is increasingly similar to a commissioner for the liquidation of Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , more than one who does the interests of the people or a "people's lawyer" as you want to define. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Rather, Commissioner appointed by Merkel and Macron, but the most ironic thing is that it would seem with the supervision of the Big Brother's eye, Rocco Casalino. Poor Italy - would have said our grandparents - poor Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For this reason Matteo Salvini gave his willingness to say: let's fix the emergencies in this country, rewrite the rules and go to the vote soon. [[Comments of Senators Bottici and Pilgrims Marco.]] This is what Italian citizens are asking why a democratically elected government really should be restored. This is what people ask and we are willing to sit around a table from this point of view, with a great sense of responsibility. But I also want to call for the fight against tax evasion. Of course, but this fight is not done through persecution of citizens. Some of our colleagues have reported that nine honest citizens would be tortured to trial an evader. It is by lowering taxes that tax evasion is countered. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the only way forward: the exact opposite of what you have done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the subject of investment we heard a constant and continuous chorus last year: "investment, investment." Everything seemed to depend on investment. You have made the manoeuvre: you have put 10 billion in three years more than the ones there were, a pity that in 2020 only 420 million can actually be spent - says the ANCE -, really a ridiculous figure for those who called themselves investment champions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We agree, Senator Renzi, to unlock resources on unlocking yards. But I remind you that the previous government had voted on the decree unblocking yards, which provided that more than ninety commissioners should be appointed to unblock the works. Well, now that you're in the government, have them unblocked by the Minister of Infrastructure and have the commissioners appointed. You unlock this money, if you really care about it as you say. I begin by stressing the fact that the Parliamentary Budget Office - which has been said by a few, but is an important element from our point of view - has written in its report that there are incorrect estimates in the maneuver. That is to say, in some measures contained within the maneuver the envisaged cover would not give the revenue that would actually be expected. This is very serious; even some newspapers have written that there are 700 million, one billion missing. Wow, my face! We were the ones who risked breaking the state's accounts! Here they are, the incompetents, the incompetents who are not even good at writing budget rules. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u173	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u174	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I come to the conclusion that, indeed, this summer you said you wanted to govern because you had to avoid the increase in VAT; well, now that you have fulfilled your task, you will also remove the disturbance and do a great favor to the whole country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what we hope for. For these reasons, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote no to this economic manoeuvre. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u177	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Government, in the persons of the undersecretaries Castelli, Misiani, Malpezzi and Castaldi, and the four rapporteurs, Senators Accoto and Stefano for the majority and Revolt and Damiani for the minority. It is, however, a bit like De Gasperi's thanks to the Paris Peace Conference, when he said: We do not ask anything more than your courtesy and got much for Italy. We in the opposition have had courtesy - and we thank you for that - but nothing has been achieved. What has Italy achieved from this manoeuvre? A three-year budget maneuver, 2020-2022, requires the Government and Parliament to make an effort to analyse the context and project the future. On the other hand, we have had convocations and disconvocations, without any context analysis or projection of the future. We are a country in stagnation and zero growth. We are a country that has a violent demographic collapse. We are a country that has a bureaucracy that mortifies and a justice that risks condemning the innocent, with a long-term prescription, and absolving the guilty. We are a country that has 1,500 billion euros standing on current accounts and are the biggest indicator of distrust towards those who govern us. We are a country that no longer attracts foreign investments, while Italian investors go to invest abroad and transfer the headquarters. We are a country with 10% unemployment and 30% youth unemployment, with 3 million women no longer seeking work. All international indicators tell us that the level of our school quality is falling, unfortunately. We are a country that can no longer guarantee health for all. I would like to remind you that in this maneuver there are only 300 residents who can enjoy the scholarship, against the thousands that should have been. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] What does the government do? It presents a 30 billion maneuver, neutralizes VAT for 2020, but leaves us 19 billion VAT in 2021 and 25.7 billion in 2022. It finances all with 16 billion euros of greater indebtedness and, at the origin, 10 billion more revenues, then always modified with greater revenues for 10 billion, but a part with recovery. This is the state of the maneuver, without an idea of industrial policy (in fact, it shuts down Ilva, Whirlpool, Alitalia and transfer others abroad); without a tax reform programme, but burdening the usual known ones, who are certainly not the rich. The result is a cascade of microtaxes to scream everyone and scream better. We are concerned about light hemp (of course it is a theme) without even thinking about the enormous intermediate expenses, which are considered untouchable when instead they amount to 130 billion, and without a plan of restructuring of the public administration, indeed with 150,000 new hires in its ranks, to be added to the funds destined to the income of citizenship and with a strong commitment to increase the taxes (plastic and sugar tax, that on the company cars and so on); moreover, soon the Sunday closures will determine 100,000 occupied less. Colleagues, the expenditure of the State exceeds 900 billion, the pensions cost 345 billion, of which 105 already on the national tax, the public incomes 164 billion, the intermediate consumption - of which I have already mentioned - 130 billion and the interest 80 billion, on a public debt of 2,446 billion; there remain little more than 40 billion for the so-called investments, that with so much difficulty we cannot start. In the face of this, current expenditure continues to increase. The solution is that it is time to redesign a new state that costs less precisely because of those technological innovations that others in this House have already mentioned. It can be restructured, instead the maneuver is reduced to increase the taxes. We must have the courage to go back to the Constitution and put a ceiling on taxation, otherwise we will never stop. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Colleagues, for us, for our thinking, we must leave to the State what is its own, such as welfare services and controls, that is, the fundamental functions, and arrive at a fairer taxation. How is it that the dry coupon has not been extended, the effect of which was the increase in State revenue, not their decrease? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] Colleagues, we talk about statization: ex Ilva, concessions, Banca Popolare di Bari, Alitalia (public is already). Let me say that the former paragraph 446 (because it will become such) of the maxi amendment, on the hundredth anniversary of the Italian Communist Party, becomes emblematic of the whole maneuver; a party that, regardless of the thought that each of us can have, has represented much in this country of the last century. It is history, but it is also the seal of this majority that we used to appeal to the four lefts and that we can now safely call communist. That is the reality. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But there are the great forgotten of the maneuver, if not broken: there is no active labour policy. Of the 700,000 beneficiaries of citizenship income only navigators are hired. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Autonomy has been forgotten: there are Regions that demand autonomy and are not all in the North; instead, one wants to stop those who ask to be free to grow and grow means wealth to be redistributed. Next to all this we also have tourism, which we try in every way to penalize, with residence taxes or chaos in the procedures: think of the so-called short rental contracts, which we do not know who to turn to, or the spirit of reception: what is the spirit of hospitality, the cities with the garbage because we do not have the courage to make a serious policy at national level on waste? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] On agriculture, there is no national agricultural plan, no stimulus to production, no intervention compared to the big scourges, such as Xylella, Asian bug, wild fauna (great forgotten). More could be done, much more: companies could be freed from the thousand bureaucratic obligations, from the sum of taxes and leaps, for example the Imu on the so-called collabenti, unusable. In many Italian realities the buildings are found not to pay the Imu. Again, as I have already mentioned, the dry coupon on the shops. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Not to mention the question of labour costs. Colleagues, the cost of labour for a few years no longer constituted a discrimination of competition; it is becoming again a discrimination for competition. To unbalance the market even with sectoral taxes means to make our country lose competitiveness. What about the family? It turns out that we do not make family policy, that we promote interventions on kindergartens, but then we reject our amendment for baby parks, the only way of conciliation for those who work. In this case, labour policy - and I conclude, Mr President - means time management. This is how gender equality is won. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] They want to protect minors, but video surveillance fails. It is expected that 100 million will be planned for the kindergartens that we will see in a decade's time, but the conciliation solution is an immediate matter, and only equalized schools can provide solutions. Colleagues, in order to be a welfare company, it is necessary to have first the production companies; the incomes to be redistributed go first products. You dissipate them. Thank you. Our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u180	PIRRO (M5S). Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in the Budget Committee, the 5 Star Movement and the other Groups, and the officials for the great work they have done. We have finally reached the vote on this draft budget law. Just over three months ago it seemed difficult for many of us to reach this goal. I will not dwell much on the content of the maneuver, which has already been explained in detail by my colleagues in previous speeches. I would like to focus on how we got here. It was foretold as an emergency manoeuvre, born basically to prevent the increase in VAT, characterized, therefore, more by something not to be done. In fact, today it is revealed as a budget law that finally looks to the future, to the new generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this maneuver, ladies and gentlemen, we make a fundamental contribution, I would say almost a form to the European environment agenda. In the budget law, we are launching an ambitious investment plan for the environment and innovation. It starts from the 10 billion investments in the three-year period that, over the next fifteen years, will rise to 59 billion [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , including resources already allocated to aim more and more firmly at achieving a social, economic and environmental ecosystem. An ecosystem of innovation, stimulus and enthusiasm, especially for our young people who want to bet on their talents and creativity. Within this maneuver, the environment and innovation are intimately connected. Thanks to parliamentary work, for example, the scope of the benefits of the Industry 4.0 plan has been widened. First of all, the transformation of the current tax credit facilities, which is easier to use, has been facilitated. In addition, even as a result of this transformation, we are also going to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in Industry 4.0, which have so far remained on the sidelines of the package. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This will allow an extension of 40% of the audience of the beneficiaries of the same Company 4.0. In addition, in the same context, we have introduced a brand new green tax credit to help companies carry out circular and decarbonisation economy projects. I would also like to point out that even in this new perimeter Industry 4.0 is a package of facilities worth €7 billion a year: other than maneuvering against businesses. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A sign, therefore, that is important for the whole world of business and work. In a word, let's talk about facts, investments, lives and not the usual beach chatter with the usual underground propaganda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is part of a line of continuity with what was done in the last maneuver on the fundamental impulse of the Movimento 5 Stars with the launch of the national fund of innovation, which is taking its first steps precisely these days. According to past budget law, the fund, under the direction of the Deposit and Loan Fund, has an initial budget of one billion euros for direct and indirect investments, to acquire equity participations within startups and small and medium-sized enterprises in the national territory. In short, the environment and innovation today have a wide range of support measures available and this, for the Movimento 5 Stars, is a reason for deep pride. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was hard to get here. It has not been easy, for a government that was born recently, to write a budget law; and it is even less so if the government is made up of political forces that have never worked together and have been opposed until recently. And yet, with dialogue and confrontation, we did it. The Senate did its part. Important changes have been made to the text proposed by the Government, both for the reasons just said and because that is precisely the role of Parliament. But the philosophy on which the maneuver is based has not been in any way affected. This resulted in a draft budget law which provides indispensable signals for the fight against hydrogeological failure. Not only practical interventions, but through the financing of a support tool for prevention or the National Geological Charter, which was so dear to our dear colleague Franco Ortolani. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The draft budget law increases the fund for non-self-sufficiency; increases the fund for the right to university study; increases the funding of the rent fund; equates the salaries of firefighters with those of the law enforcement agencies; reduces environmentally harmful subsidies; increases the grants for medical specialists by 1,000 places; combats gender violence; encourages workers who detect their company in the event of a crisis. Here too, concrete facts, not beach propaganda. Finally, Mr President, I would like to speak on the hoax par excellence, namely that of a maneuver that increases taxes. Unfortunately, reading the cards is a challenging activity, all the more so for those who are used to packaging a few lines of fake news for social media. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Too bad, because reading documents would facilitate the understanding of some firm points. The maneuver does not increase taxes compared to 2019, as the tax burden remains at the same level as 41.9% of GDP. However, we reduce the tax wedge on employees by 3 billion and, above all, reduce the tax burden on the so-called trend, i.e. the level of 42.7% that would have been reached if we had not intervened under this budget law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The cancellation of the 23 billion VAT increase has had a fundamental effect, as has been pointed out several times. But here I want to point out that it wasn't an easy and obvious operation at all. Not all governments, in fact, in the past have had the courage and the ability to avoid the increase of VAT. The first increase in VAT... PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Remind him! PIRRO (M5S). ...after the Diktats of the European Union, for example, it took place in August 2011, with the transfer of the rate from 20% to 21% and a stake for Italians of 4.5 billion euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That decision was approved by the fourth Berlusconi Government, with the League inside. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Pittoni and Rufa]] PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). You! PIRRO (M5S). The same League which, again within the Berlusconi Government, in May 2011 gave the green light to the Statute of the ESM, the famous European Stability Mechanism, on which we debated in this House last week. The second increase in VAT, from 21 to 22%, always approved by the Berlusconi Government, was not sterilized, as we do today, by the then Letta Government, supported by Forza Italia, with a further €4.2 billion stake being borne by the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Briziarelli]] Let us be clear: we do not stagnate the Italians, others have already done so and have done so repeatedly. Because it is soon called anti-taxes and sovereignists, then doing the exact opposite [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , while it is much more difficult to really lower taxes and truly represent Italian interests, here and in Europe. In conclusion, colleagues, I think that, like me, many of you are here to change from the bottom of this country. As a woman and as a mother I say that I am, indeed we are doing it for the future of my children. Precisely because this is a maneuver that looks to the future and to the new generations, the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote firmly in favour of confidence in the draft budget law. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u182	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u183	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, once again, with regret, I am voting against my group. I do so now, as I would have done if Minister Gualtieri had been there if he had brought me a written maneuver from Brussels. I was not elected to keep Italians imprisoned in the cage of a budget imposed by Europe: that is not the case. We do not need the written permission of the Brussels bureaucrats to defend the Italians. You see, on March 4, 2018, an important majority of Italians asked us to break those relationships, which constitute the system of power and that majority did so with a very powerful weapon: the democratic vote. That weapon is called democracy. An exercise in the Palace brought the defeats of that time to the Government - the Constitution allows it - but the people, who demanded a ransom, do not allow any game of Palace to change the meaning of history. You see, this government wasn't even able to intervene in Italian bills, anything but green new deal! Who cares about energy consumption, at home, is not rewarded even one euro and these - in my opinion - are battles that would affect the budgets of all Italians. On March 4, this important majority of Italians had asked, and asked the Movimento 5 Stars, to put on their shoulders a survival revolution, because power was crushing people's lives, citizens' rights, the freedoms of thousands of women and men. The Movimento 5 Stars won the election by talking about expansive policies. And we were right. Here I have heard the 32 economists list: well, after that list made in this House, the 32 economists themselves said that it was a pity that the left to whom they were addressing did not consider their appeal. Well, those 32 economists tell us once and for all the following: The economic performance of the eurozone has been among the worst in the world in recent years, and in various countries there are more and more protests about the increase in inequalities and the growing uncertainty of citizens about their living conditions. Without a profound change, starting with the current proposals, the European Union risks not having a future. Do we want to consider the appeal of these Keynesian economists? That is why here, within the maneuver, I find nothing expansive, but I find once again the logic of the Brussels cage, unfortunately I will have to vote no. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u184	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the first section of draft law no. 1586, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Iwobi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Iwobi. (Senator Secretary Pisani Giuseppe and, later, Senator Secretary Tosato make the appeal). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa, Bucharella Country, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Cerno, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Iniziini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croati, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Fattoripo, Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Ferrara, Di Piazza, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattoripo, Fattoripo, Fedelori, Fedelori, Fedelori, Fedelori, Ferrari I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the first section of the bill no. 1586, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 295 Senators voting 294 Majority 148 Favorables 166 Contrari 128]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]] All amendments and agendas submitted to the articles of the first section of the draft law are therefore not included. Ladies and gentlemen, since all the articles of the bill have been examined, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations, which will be sent to the Senate as soon as possible. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorized to convene for the examination of this document and then to report back to the Assembly. Pending the presentation by the Government of the Note of changes to the budget, I suspend the session for fifteen minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 21.39 and resumed at 22.07.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance presented the Note of Changes to the Budget of the State for the financial year 2020 and to the Multiannual Budget for the three-year period 2020-2022, with which the Government introduced in the text of the draft law and in the annexed tables the changes resulting from the determinations adopted by the Senate when examining the first section. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. I call the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, to report on the conclusions adopted by the 5th Permanent Commission on the Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u185	Mr President, the 2014-2022 Note of changes to the state budget includes amendments to the draft budget law resulting from amendments adopted at first reading by the Senate of the Republic. The Note contains an update of the accounting statements of the separate draft budget law per voting unit and the technical annexes by chapters. These prospectuses show the financial quantities of the State budget and separately the changes related to the approved amendments set out in appropriate columns for the first section and the second section. The draft budget law 2020-2022, including changes to the Senate of the Republic, attests to the net balance to be financed at around €78.6 billion in 2020, at €55.4 billion in 2021 and at €36 billion in 2022. Among the main changes made during the first reading, the amendments allow for a better definition of certain measures already contained in the draft budget law, to which I refer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u186	Senator Accoto, do you intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u187	No, Mr President, I agree with what my colleague has already said.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u188	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, in reference to both the articles of the bill and the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Note of variations. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Brusio.]] I shall cancel the vote. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the Note of Variations. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1586, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT,UV) and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u189	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-175.ana.u190	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, December 17, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.12 p.m.
