ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1264, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Deputy Captains and others; Gelmines and others; Dadone and others; Battilocchio and others; Toccafoni and others; Comaroli and others; Gelmini; Mura and others; Schullian and others; Pella; Frassinetti and others; Nesci and others; Lattanzio and others; Fusacchia; Brunetta and Aprea; Misiti; and a bill of popular initiative, 233, 303, 610, 796, 863 and 1031. The rapporteur, Senator Rufa, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u5	Mr President, the 7th Commission has concluded the examination of draft law No 1264, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, which proposes to introduce the cross-cutting teaching of civic education into the first and second cycles of education and the launch of initiatives to raise awareness of responsible citizenship in children's school. The Commission proposes to the Assembly to approve the text already defined by the House of Deputies, without amendment, thus allowing - hopefully - its operation to begin from the next school year. The examination of the bill was first carried out in writing, and then, last, in the contact person, after it was requested to be returned to the Shareholders' Meeting pursuant to Rule 36, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, by the prescribed number of senators. Turning to the contents of Law No 1264, I would first of all point out that it was approved by the House of Deputies in a unified text resulting from the combination of numerous legislative proposals. After having stated the principles of Article 1, the text provides in Article 2 that, from 1 September of the school year following the date of entry into force of the law, in the first and second cycles of education is activated the transversal teaching of civic education, and that it is subject to periodic and final evaluation (as provided for by Legislative Decree No 62 of 2017 and by the regulation referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic 22 June 2009, n. 122), expressed in tenths. For the transversal teaching of civic education, provided for in the school curriculum, the time may not be less than 33 hours per year (one hour per week) in the compulsory hours required by the laws in force. In order to reach the above-mentioned number of hours, schools may use the proportion of autonomy necessary to change the curriculum, provided that there must be no hours of teaching exceeding the required time. In the schools of the first cycle, the transversal teaching of civic education is entrusted in contiguousness to the teachers on the basis of the aforementioned curriculum, using the resources of the staff of autonomy. In the second cycle, the teaching is entrusted to teachers qualified to teach legal and economic disciplines, where available, within the framework of the staff of autonomy. For each class, among the teachers entrusted with the teaching of civic education is identified a coordinating teacher who, among other things, has the task of formulating the proposal of vote acquiring cognitive elements from the other teachers to whom the same teaching is entrusted. Article 3 entrusts to a decree of the Minister of Education, University and Research the definition of guidelines for the teaching of civic education on some topics of reference such as: Constitution, institutions of the Italian State, the European Union and international bodies, history of the flag and national anthem, 2030 agenda for sustainable development, education to digital citizenship, fundamental elements of law, with particular regard to labour law, environmental education, sustainable development and protection of environmental heritage, identity of productions and territorial and agri-food excellence, education to the legality and contrast of mafias, education to respect and enhancement of cultural heritage and common public goods, basic training in the field of civil protection. It is also expected that, in the context of the cross-cutting teaching of civic education, road education, health and well-being education, voluntary education and active citizenship will be promoted. Article 4 puts the knowledge of the Italian Constitution at the basis of the teaching of civic education, both in the school of children and in the first cycle and in the second cycle, to develop skills inspired by the values of responsibility, legality, participation and solidarity. Article 5 includes digital citizenship education in the context of cross-cutting civic education and indicates the essential digital skills and knowledge to be developed gradually on the basis of the age of pupils and students. In this context, it is planned to set up at the MIUR the consultation of the rights and duties of the child and the digital teenager, convened at least every two years by the Minister himself. With regard to composition, the fixed number of members is not foreseen, but it is established that the presence of students, teachers, families and experts in the sector is ensured and that a member is designated by the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence. The Consulta operates in coordination with the technical table for the prevention and contrast of cyberbullying, established pursuant to Article 3 of Law No 71 of 2017. Article 6 devotes a part of the resources already allocated to the implementation of the national training plan for the implementation of training activities, amounting to EUR 4 million per year since 2020. Article 7 states that the school strengthens collaboration with families, including by integrating the educational pact of co-responsibility, extending it to primary school in order to enhance the cross-cutting teaching of civic education and to raise awareness among students of responsible citizenship. The same Article 7 repeals the rules on disciplinary sanctions for primary school pupils. Article 8 provides for the possibility of integrating the transversal teaching of civic education with extracurricular experiences and with the world of volunteering and the third sector, as well as with local administrations and their organs, while Article 9 entrusts the MIUR with the constitution without new burdens of the register of good civic education practices. Article 10 provides for the annual indication, by decree of the Minister, of a national competition for the valorization of the best experiences in the field of civic education, in order to promote its diffusion in the national school system for every order and degree of education. Finally, Article 11 instructs the Minister to submit to the Chambers every two years a report on the implementation of the law. Article 12 introduces the safeguard clause for regions with special status and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano. Article 13 regulates the financial invariance clause. The draft law has been accompanied by additional texts, signed by the various political forces, which are proposed to be absorbed. This is the bill n. 233, presented by Senators Nadia Ginetti and others; the bill n. 303, of initiative of Senators Boldrini and Messina; the bill n. 610, of initiative of Senators Barbara Floridia and others; the bill n. 796, of initiative of Senators Romeo and others; the bill n. 863, of initiative of Senators Simona Malpezzi and others; and the bill n. 1031, of initiative of Senator Ronzulli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u7	Mr President, a draft law on armoured civic education arrives here today. It comes to us from the House without any possibility of modification, thus canceling the work carried out in the Commission and also canceling the possibility of the opposition to offer a different view of the teaching of civic education at school. In fact, once again, we overcome the bicameralism of equality, because everything is defined in one branch of Parliament. Therefore, I have decided to intervene in order to represent a legislative proposal which I have presented since the last parliamentary term as a contribution aimed at defining a teaching which has only at times been specifically implemented in school curricula. In fact, it must be emphasized strongly that this majority, once again, claims to promote innovation and to appropriate the introduction of the subject of civic education in schools, when it has been intended as a subject of education since 1958. However, we believe that the border, competences and modalities should be defined more clearly, adapting them also to the civic and cultural evolution of civil society, in order to fill dangerous gaps and involutions. Many attempts were in fact made to strengthen the teaching of civic education in schools after 1958, almost a legislative bulimia: after the decree of the President of the Republic n. 140 of 1985, in 1998 follows that for the formation to citizenship (DPR n. 249); in 2003 the law n. 53 for the education to civil cohabitation is issued, also here with the prediction that civic education included also road education, health, food education and affectivity; again, below, the decree Gelmini (n. 137 of 2008) in reference to 'cittadinanza and Constitution, teaching then inserted in the disciplinary area historical-geographical law n. 107 of 2015. This is to point out that it is not a question of introducing a new teaching, but on the contrary it was necessary to indicate a way of making it more effective, adapting it to current needs. Also at European level, the European Commission has since 2016 adopted a series of communications aimed at strengthening European identity through education and culture. From the 2017 report "Education to citizenship at school" in 2017, comparing 42 educational systems, it emerges that in as many as 20 systems the subject is a separate and compulsory discipline. On the legal level in Italy, therefore, the subject has not obtained (and with this bill you do not exceed this limit) that scientific autonomy that would be its responsibility and has instead become an appendix to the teaching of history, often confined in a teaching space so limited as to be ineffective in its tasks, both of education and of education. It is my hope, on the contrary, that the Constitutional Charter will be systematically taught and analysed in Italian schools of all orders and degrees in order to offer young people an indispensable framework of reference to build their future as citizens, who must feel proudly an integral, active and supportive part of the national community, with a critical awareness of the great challenges posed by contemporary life, without fear: consciences today all too easily manipulated, also for the diffusion of the use of social and mass communications networks. Yesterday we repeated many times in this House that sovereignty belongs to the people. Our democracy is based on this principle and it is therefore essential to lay the foundations for a citizenship aware of the role assigned to it by our Republican Constitution. I do not think that a transversal and non-autonomous teaching, with a coordinator who should summarize fragments of teaching that you of the majority propose, without an independent final evaluation and without a clear definition of the subject of teaching for thirty-three hours per year, can achieve this result. For this reason, my proposal for a law did not provide for a cross-cutting teaching, but an autonomous set of hours for autonomous teaching and to allow students to acquire legal notions about the values, rights and duties on which our civil coexistence is based. Respect that is the basis of legality in every territory and in every community; legality that is a guarantee of that security that you propaganda, but that in fact not pursued. If studying the history that has accompanied the birth and development of our democracy and our institutions is fundamental, the teaching and knowledge of rights and duties as the foundation of common living is indispensable. The teachers are there; we have also stressed this in the Commission. The teachers are already there and are waiting to be employed. They are the 4,000 teachers present in the schools, already ordinary teachers, graduates in legal and economic sciences, already paid. So ours is a proposal of financial invariance; it would be enough to redistribute 4,000 teachers uniformly to have a teacher of law in each higher institution. Democracy - we experienced it yesterday - is a conquest, but it is not given or taken for granted, it must be maintained and protected by building citizenship to prepare also honorable ruling classes that with competence and discipline perform tomorrow the task of loyally serving the country in the general interest. We would thus avoid having representatives of the people willing to approve, as we did yesterday, illegitimate and anti-institutional measures. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like every student with the education of the Constitution to feel part of a community to represent with pride, to which to make his personal contribution for the economic, social and cultural growth of the country and thus recover confidence and esteem in our precious democratic institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, our assessment - the key word for the measure we are discussing and my speech - is that we are faced with a missed opportunity. We have been confronted with Mr Romeo, who is also a colleague of the territory, and we have not shared a point. I understand the concern to arrive ready for the beginning of the school year with a measure; I sincerely understand it and I believe that once again, again, in this case, the Democratic Party Group has managed to hold together two needs: to play its role of political force temporarily to the opposition, which clearly highlights another vision of the country; but to do it seriously, without obstructionism and without wasting time on the country. However, in the Senate of the Republic, despite the competences that each member has, the provision has passed to a purely formal question. We are today at the beginning of August, in a few hours we will approve the measure and no contribution of our fellow senators and senators, I do not say of the opposition, but not of the majority, will be able to become part of the bill. In our opinion this is a political error, because the initiative on the teaching of civic education is born from a cross-cutting front: it is born from the territory, through the impulse of citizens, local administrators, teachers and involves extraordinary reflection. In fact, if we do not simply want to insert a dossier in a file, in a drawer, maybe raise the flag and hang on the jacket of some parliamentary colleague (especially a Member, who is also a dear friend) the medal for the result of having approved a measure and that is enough, but we want to understand how in 2019 we really manage to carry out these two extraordinary actions contained in the two words "civic education," it is necessary to be able to bring out more and more in the children the sense of belonging to a community and the development of an attitude to civicism, civilization. I ask you and ask myself: do we have a civilization problem today, in this country? Do we have a civilization problem in the West today? Do we have it or not? Are we really convinced that with two rules, with some wonderful, beautiful declarations of intent contained in some article, we from tomorrow morning or - as Mr Romeo is very fond of - from the 1st, the 15th, the 18th or the 19th of September - will we have solved this problem? I don't think so. This was the objective opportunity to involve scholars and people who invest their time on pedagogy and to try to understand how we can do in 2019, using, for example, technologies, the forms of play and fun as learning tools, to trigger a cultural change in children; a cultural change that, unfortunately, has taken place since the 1980s, but which goes in the direction of the breakdown of society, the development of a personal individualism, which becomes more dramatic and which, in recent decades, has passed from the form of an individualism that is careless to the other by itself, even the form of an individualism that sees in the other an enemy, therefore of the individualism of hatred, which is perhaps the principle, opposed to civic education, which truly characterizes our society. This debate, this debate, this reflection where are they in the path we have taken for this measure? There has not been objectively even remotely enough space. Even in this case, with total availability, courtesy, willingness to meet colleagues, it is not our fault, however, that, after a year of government, the provision on civic education arrives poor and emptied of all innovative content and resources at the Senate Assembly, around the end of everyone's work path before a short summer break. At this point we must mortify a path of this kind, because at the beginning of the school year we must have deposited and active a legal provision. This is a political mistake. It is objectively a missed opportunity. Someone has said - and this, in fact, is a confirmation of what I am saying - that we now approve of this measure, which is the framework, and then, in the next measures, especially those of an economic nature, we will insert the content into the framework. Therefore, we are hanging, in the most beautiful museum of our community, not a picture but a frame and we say "nextly": we start to occupy the place with the frame and we will see if it will pass some paintings to put in. Contemporary art, on the function of the frame, has done a wonderful job and said that everything that ends up inside the frame for a community becomes a picture, but it is not so. The power of Chagall and Van Gogh is within the picture, not in the frame, and this is the passage that is completely missing from this provision. Thanks to Mr Cangini, for example, a German professor was invited to the 7th Commission, who, during a very interesting hearing, explained to us what kind of issues are raising digital means and tools in relation to the learning skills of our children. Can we therefore propose in 2019 a legislative initiative on civic education and completely ignore this universe that concerns our boys and girls? That is what we must take care of. Allow me to say one last thing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, without wanting to raise my voice unnecessarily, I am dramatically concerned about a cultural aspect of this bill, i.e. where the point of drop will be fixed in relation to the subject of education. In the words of many colleagues and, unfortunately, also in the dominant letter of this measure, the point of balance on the level of evaluation is all in the judgment if you are inside or outside a frame. The theme, therefore, is not to educate, that is to go and find in people what for everyone means civicism and build a collective, because then this is the task that the school should carry out, but rather to give a numerical judgment if you are inside or outside a supposed dogmatic table of evaluation. In fact, colleagues, the whole of society is moving towards the concept of who is inside and who is out, so we continue to build frames, boundaries, sets and fences - the latter term that clings to a pastoral language that, in my opinion, unfortunately has a lot to do with this approach - to understand who is inside and who is out. This process, however, is of no use: we do not need to tell a boy, who is in his full personal and educational development, whether or not he has the characteristics necessary to be accepted by society. That is the point, because the drama of so many girls and boys today, especially at the time of their transformation, is already that of not feeling accepted by society, of feeling away from it, of feeling different and we must put in place exactly the opposite process. It is not, therefore, a question of telling them that they do not have the characteristics and that they do not reach the minimum level that some of us decided in a Chamber like this in August to be or not part of a community; on the contrary, it is necessary to understand with them how they can share the characteristics that they have inside with all the other members of their class, their community and build them together. This is the great cultural challenge that we are not even trying: I do not know if we would have been able to carry it out, but we have not even tried. I've finished my time. I give only one core of hope, Mr President: thankfully I am convinced that even on this occasion, despite the standards that we will approve, many teachers and many teachers, many teachers and many teachers in the Italian school will succeed in doing good and qualified civic education. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, civic education lays its foundations in the knowledge of the Italian Constitution and the institutions of the European Union, helping to train responsible and active citizens, promoting their full participation in social and cultural life and respecting the rules of common living and the rights and duties of all. In the school journey of maturity and training, knowledge of the basic principles of legality, active citizenship and participation, environmental sustainability, the right to the health and well-being of the person will give students an indelible imprint, capable of influencing their future choices, creating the solid foundations on which to build a path of progressive maturation that will lead them to become real men, respectful of the institutions, inserted in a social context of active participation and cultural and multi-ethnic integration, in which there is the right balance between the affirmation of their own and the sacred rights enshrined in the Constitution and the respect of their duties. And it is precisely in this difficult and delicate balance that the essence of democracy is founded. Respect, sharing, participation in public life are the flywheel for the growth of a healthy and strong democracy, capable of resisting possible anti-democratic drifts that can arise from extremist and isolationist drives, which put the particular interests of few before those shared by many. In my opinion, the most important result to which this bill will contribute, which restores dignity and visibility to the teaching of civic education in the various school cycles, with awareness initiatives already started in the school of childhood, will be represented by a broad horizon that will open to the eyes and minds of our children. The new path of teaching civic education, which embraces all social life in its multiform aspects (such as respect for the environment and the protection of the environmental heritage, education to health and well-being, participation in volunteering and active citizenship, education to the legality and contrast of mafias, road education and ultimately, but not in importance, education to respect the institutions and knowledge our Constitutional Charter) constitutes an initial point for the true formation of our children, increasingly related to the daily reality. This result will allow the Italian school to be no longer an abstract entity, but a point of reference perfectly inserted in its role of training and preparation for the next social and community life. Particular attention is paid to the training of teachers on issues related to the cross-cutting teaching of civic education. The teacher, properly trained, must involve and be the dragon of the pupils in this cultural experience and in this path of growth. I would like to conclude my speech with a final consideration. Civic education must represent a way of teaching real life, able to change over the years in relation to new technologies and new acquisitions, but always maintaining a fundamental concept: to form properly and to make children become real citizens in a modern and democratic Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u12	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u13	Mr President, we are here today to hold the general debate on the teaching of civic education. We know that this is a subject on which we have been debating for some time, especially in the latter period, and that many political forces have put forward draft legislation on it. However, I must remember in this House that we are not starting from the year zero: the subject was already contained in the law on good school that we adopted in the previous parliamentary term; a sense of civic competence and citizenship has been greatly strengthened since then. Until a few decades ago in Italy this teaching was foreseen in high school; there was an obligation to teach civic education, a subject introduced in 1958 by one of the Fathers of our Republic, Aldo Moro. Aldo Moro had done well then to include this obligation, because he already knew that educating a community to the civic sense of the institutions is very important and is the basis of a life and a civil society, to spread important values such as those contained in the Constitution. Civic education, in fact, obviously includes the teaching of the most important law in our hierarchy of normative sources, which unfortunately yesterday was trampled on in a resounding way. Let's say it's the guidelines for a civilized country. And, therefore, Aldo Moro had done well to incorporate the obligation of teaching civic education. However, it was inopportune as it seemed that civil society had already been formed and built and that there was no need for it anymore. Unfortunately, we are witnessing the courses and recourses of history. There is absolutely a need to resume a civil life. In these days we realize how embarrassing our people are and this is a big problem. We need to start doing something, introducing an obligation that can help us on this path. So let us put the teaching of civic education in the public school and realize the importance it can have. The Upper House - the Senate - already does a lot of work for our students. As you know, there are important initiatives, in which many of us have participated, in which children come to the Senate to learn the process of passing laws and the Constitution. However, these are voluntary training activities that do not have a form and structure. It is therefore good to give a structure at this particular time, in order to make sure that there is awareness of being part of a community in which compliance with the rules is an essential condition for optimal living. The abolition of the study of civil education was also the effect of another reform which had foreseen a cut in funding. In that case too - as I said earlier - he had acted in an unfettered manner, because it was thought that such an important lesson would have to be lost in order to recover funds. I have already said that this has led to a fall in values and we do not like it. We want a society that is much more cohesive. Today, more than twenty-five years after that abolition, the need for the school to work in close liaison with families emerges. In this regard, there is one point that I must stress. Why must our children always be the incentive to help parents become better? I believe that there must be cohesion and that families must become, together with their children, a better civil society. Here too, however, we always give the task to our children, in the hope that they will help us to have a better future to become good citizens and to learn from the outset what the fundamental principles of the Constitutional Charter are. We are talking about a fundamental discipline in order to understand the training process through which rights and duties are assumed, that is, rights due, but also duties that, unfortunately, not all people feel they have today. We want to give a boost to our society, once again, through education in schools. This is very important. We heard what Mr Rampi said earlier, which preceded me. It should have been a sharing of intent. We too have made regulatory proposals, but - as often happens - many amendments have not been accepted and we are very sorry. In any case, we believe that it is important to continue along this path, by approving the measure and thus handing over to our society an important law. In school, the work of teachers - we know - is very important. I would like to give an example that I witnessed last week with great pleasure, in order to re-evaluate the work of our teachers. Unfortunately, a dear friend, a high school teacher, has failed. I went to his funeral and I was pleasantly surprised that, in addition to his colleagues - usually present when accompanying a person on his last trip - there were so many youngsters, all his students. This means that, through the vocation of those who want to teach - and he has taught so much civic education, perhaps not on the merits, perhaps not in the specific chapters but with the behavior, with the example of a good society - important values are taught, certainly those of the Constitution. Those guys stuck to him until their last breath, and they cried amazingly. I've never seen such attachment. I must say that a teacher is a person who can convey values and of course we must give him the means to do so. Unfortunately, the draft law before us, once again, provides for financial invariance, and it is a big problem because we cannot always make projects of financial invariance. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that this is an important first step. We know very well that laws are written texts, they are enforceable rights. I hope that the text will not remain unenforced in our examination. It must be applied - as we have said - to the first academic year in which it will be possible to do so. I hope it will be soon, because we really need it. Many other clauses have been included, from cyberbullying to the digital agenda. I hope it does not become too complex, because there is a clear application. I think we all really need it. Let us take an example from the next students who will have the important task of turning our society into a much more civilized society. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u14	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the representatives of the Committees of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio, in the province of Pesaro-Urbino, who are attending our work and who are well known to the representatives of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u15	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit regrettable that such an important subject arrives in this House at the end of the year (taking as a perspective the school year rather than the calendar year), because, if placed differently, it could have allowed a change of mentality for teachers who will enter the classroom in September to take care of their students. Attention, however: when we talk about changing the mentality applied to the type of educational proposal that the law makes, we are not talking about a novelty in the absolute sense. Honor to white hair: I have experienced many times so many proposals that have gone in this direction. I have lived on my skin the civic education, but then I felt around this nucleus (which is made up of knowledge but above all of clothes, lifestyle, behavior, relational modes), what is basically the very heart of the school intended as a school in the community sense. We all know how often the mistake of identifying the school is made simply by knowing, by knowing. This kind of education brings us back to the great provocation of school as a school of life, as a way of being with others, as a way of knowing others and as a way of establishing a relationship of collaboration with them by virtue of values and principles strongly shared. This is, in fact, the meaning of education for active citizenship: you are not only the person who benefits from certain services and acquires the right to protest if these services do not have the quality expected. You are the person who personally and responsibly takes charge of the services necessary for the small or large community in which he lives and lends himself to being an active element that serves others. Let's say that education to active citizenship is the one that once again brings back to us the great cultural challenge of our time, that is to go beyond the definition of individual rights, to take back that social responsibility that is inherent in the sense of the duty to be with others. In this sense, the school makes a very strong proposal to the children and does not limit itself to proposing content; among other things, the contents that also proposes the bill in question range so much, in absolute totality, and range from street education, to education to the environment, from aesthetic education, to fundamental education to legality. However, there is also talk of an education that takes back that sense of the rules of civil living that should be a strong bulwark, at least to recognize immediately where there is an attempt to abuse; where there is an attempt at corruption; where there is that dimension that is sometimes appreciated, but that concretely is the escape from the moral sense, constituted by that attitude as a sly one, of those who learn to dodge the rules to turn them exclusively to their own advantage. Civic education is a strong proposal to feel reference elements in your own social context starting - for example - from school, but also from the family and from the realities in which the boy feels inserted, in the span of time ranging from the younger age to the maturity. Here we are making strong and courageous proposals, which the law takes as culturally transversal proposals. There is no professor of civic education, but there is the coordinator of the teachings that, in some way, are reproposed through all the contents. I must say that many of us have acquired the necessary civic education through content from philosophy, history and literature. All of us - at least those who come from the experience of classical high school - have passionately loved the birth of democracy in Athens and Greek tragedies: I believe that the character of Antigone has shaped a sense of natural law so strong, in many of us, to give us the right proportion between natural law and positive law, between natural law and responsibility in front of one's conscience and a legislative proposal that, in the long run, could assume a purely bureaucratic and far-reaching character. All this calls on us today to re-propose the meaning of the Constitution as a living reality. We know the distinction between the formal Constitution and the material Constitution, but for us the Constitution is that common dialogue, established by a Catholic culture that has intercepted liberal culture and which, together with that culture, has been confronted with other styles of thought. He did, however, by proposing a set of rules - let us call it that - that can really define the common denominator of our experiences. Today, as today, we know how many times we seek, even through different political experiences, a bit of a logic of overpowering in the same interpretation of the Constitution. Putting the kids to you with the Constitution is perhaps one of the most beautiful experiences that the Senate proposes, when schoolchildren come to visit and receive a tribute to the Constitutional Charter, as well as the Charter of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Somehow they bathe in a story and in a continuity reproposed by the institution that welcomes them. Of course, it is interesting that today, at a time when the instrument of direct democracy is so fashionable, the bill under consideration takes on the positive dimension of the fight against bullying and cyberbullying. How many times have we said that before cyberbullying the answer, before being punitive, must be formative and must illustrate the sense of communication, the sense of respect for the ideas of others, the ability to integrate comments that converge towards a deeper acquisition of truth, the complexity of facts, the plurality of points of view? The school is still reappearing and reappropriating this. I would point out that it has been since 1958 that the teaching of civic education was established, among other things practically - I remember it - when the unified middle school was born which, beyond everything, was lived by some as the school from which the teaching of Latin was eliminated and, at the same time, in which all children were offered equal opportunities to then be able to continue their studies. It was a proposal deeply impregnated with civic sense and respect for the person and the adult. The problem is how much of this the professors then managed to develop with their example before and with the specific cultural proposal after. At that time civic education was included in the disciplinary sphere of history and geography, meaning geography as the geography of peoples. How much should the same study of geography be rediscovered today as a study of environmental diversity, cultural diversity, proximity, integration and not just of conflict between neighbours? From this point of view, it is the whole school that must reabsorb within it a new way of moving from the purely theoretical proposal of the knowledge learned, read and repeated in the context of an evaluation, to the school as a way of life. Can we do that? I don't know. It is the great challenge that we should be able to propose, probably even from parliamentary experience. More than ever in Parliament we all share, in the common roots that refer to the diversity of the parties we belong to, the foundation of the Constitution. Sometimes it seems that we ourselves consider the Constitution to be an object of contention rather than the main object of our cohesion. Maybe we too could go beyond our divisions to really seek positive answers for a more human society, more cohesive, more supportive, more truly oriented to the common good. I hope that this will also be possible through this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u17	I greet on behalf of the Assembly a group of young people from the parishes of Santa Maria delle Grazie and the Blessed Redeemer of the Municipality of Este, in the province of Padua, who are accompanied by a city councilman and are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u18	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to introduce civic education into schools answers a question that comes from afar, which finds itself in the idea of active citizenship and shared civic values its strength. There is obviously sharing on what is a psycho-pedagogical and political responsibility that we all felt, which comes from the very promulgation of the Constitution. Therefore, the need to give the discipline of civic education a status of autonomy with its own evaluation I believe is a superior synthesis that manages to make a step forward to the common will of all the Groups to achieve the objective. It has become urgent to recover an educational dimension that forms young people to the principles that allow the civil development of society, to care for the bonds of social cohesion, while for years there has been a progressive weakening of mutual respect and sense of responsibility. In school, teachers' work is increasingly difficult and students' learning is more tiring. We can no longer postpone the objective of teaching to be citizens, and therefore part of a community. Any experience of citizenship has its fundamental link with the history of the community, which must therefore be declined through the affirmation of the value of memory, peace, freedom and brotherhood in the conscience of young people. 10:31 a.m. (ROJC follow). The school, already very active on these issues, is the place where citizens are informed that they learn to live together in a responsible way; which will enable young generations to develop their own critical conscience, evaluate history, not give in to the flattery of revisionisms and become citizens aware of a democratic and just society. Today we do not invent anything, but we continue a path started seventy years ago, as colleagues have already mentioned. Many have been the interventions, proposals and programmes launched and tested, the laws approved and then unfortunately often ignored. The first is June 13, 1958 and was wanted by Aldo Moro, in that year Minister of Education, who in his decree specified what was meant by civic education: essential features of the Constitution; rights and duties of citizens; work and its organization and protection; social organizations in front of the State; general notions on the legal system of the State and principles of international cooperation. In 1979 it was then turned back to the minimum time space to dedicate them to that transversality disputed for its vagueness, which meant in fact weakening Moro's text. That is why, while reaffirming what has been gathered over seventy years in terms of reflection, awareness and divisions on this subject, we cannot be satisfied with the results produced. On the contrary, the risks of a backward return appear very strong: many excellent experiments in progress for some time now risk being frustrated, without the necessary deepenings. Over the years, it has been the historical-humanistic field that has taken responsibility for the teaching of the subject in higher institutions, often reducing the time available for the teaching of contemporary history - serious vulnus for our young people - and bringing with it an obvious impoverishment for all those involved in school. Today we are talking about the economic and legal sphere, but this can only apply to a limited number of school addresses. Moreover, abandoning the diction "Citizenship and Constitution" in my opinion leaves intact the problems that we have not been able to solve. We strongly support the opportunity for ad hoc training for our teachers; the need for a well-defined time devoted to teaching this subject, especially for secondary school and the inability to load the civic education of every educational emergency that appears in the school framework. We accept transversality as a minor evil in the face of the difficulties for now irresolubile of a reputable reliance. It is clear what the limits of this bill are, but we continue to think that we need a measure. It is important to ask for a greater recovery of resources for a curriculum, which is not exonerated from an even historical-juridical context. We strongly argue that only a serious civic formation will make our young citizens aware of the fact that our Republic has reason to exist and prosper only if it never loses sight of the Constitution and only then will young people be able to dream and realize their future as Italians and Europeans. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was 1958 when the then Minister of Education Aldo Moro fought to establish the time of civic education in Italian schools; the same Moro who, barely thirty years old, proposed to the constituent assembly to find adequate space in the educational framework of the school of every order and grade to study the Constitutional Charter. Today there is no need to give even more attention to the values and principles set out in our Constitution, an inestimable value patrimony that confines itself not only to painting the connotations proper to our people, but offers and redesigns higher objectives, ideal to be achieved, a posture to be assumed. Never as in these times such reasoning is indispensable and important and, therefore, to be handed down. In this sense our Constitution is truly unique, because those who wrote it did not stop at understanding what this country was, but they also had the courage and the spirit to indicate the road that leads to being better and it is the reason why we still today in these classrooms have the great responsibility to represent it at the highest levels. The draft law in question aims to contribute to the realization of that intention of which our constituent Fathers have imbued the Charter: to educate in common life, to know how to claim one's rights, to be aware and to fulfil one's duties, to be good citizens. However, the impossibility of amendment recorded during this period, within the Commissions and beyond, empties of a full sense the perceived need for firm and concrete contributions also in the light of a lack of appropriate and necessary resources. The Constitution - as Giuseppe Dossetti said - was written not to remain a dead letter, but to become a point of reference for all. That is why this measure could have been a positive fact for our country, but it remains mortified precisely because we have not given the opportunity to make a democratic intervention to all of us through the necessary and important contribution that we are called to make in this place every time. The actual democracy of a path would have been further substance. Then strengthening the teaching of civic education in our schools can and must be important because it contributes to the formation of responsible, active and above all free citizens; people who live the State and take part with passion and knowledge in the civic, social and cultural life; people who have the right to feed in the light of our history, always enriching it, contributing them in first person to the development of a country and its people. Respecting the rules is not a habit that arises from the knowledge of the rules themselves. The respect of the rules and the awareness of being holders of rights and duties towards a community can only arise from the understanding of the reasons why the rules exist. Our constituent Fathers knew this well, better than anyone else, and they knew well what it means to respect the other, freedom, the rights of all, especially those who are different from us and those who have a different opinion. Now, thanks to them, but also through our behavior, we must emphasize the importance of civil life; the strenuous defence of democracy and its rules; the importance of freedom, rights, a state that is just and not tyrant. The greatest contribution that we can make to our country, to our nation, is precisely to pass on, to educate in this awareness and to prepare who today is the citizen of tomorrow - but is already a citizen today - to imagine and realize without a doubt a better society. That is why this measure could really be a good page in Parliament's history. Because supported by an effective collegiality - the true cultural challenge of our time and places - it would have interpreted, already in its making, the education of sharing, awareness and responsibility. The mole of fragmentation, on the other hand, weighs on the provision and does not help the right path that should have accompanied the new generations to know the world and the society in which they will have to grow and that they are also called to change, to educate in the sense of cultivating respect for the earth and for creation. To think of a society that can grow and progress in a sustainable way is the indispensable duty to which we are called, but the ways are strength that must support the substance. Then, already from this House, already within our relations, already from the actual sharing, we are called to maintain the high value of democracy, working for democracy and showing ourselves attentive to democratic procedures. If we are not able to keep these principles firmly in the accomplishment of our work, we risk emptying of strength and value what we are going to propose instead. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u21	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the deviances of our society, in the face of the lack of democratic participation, in the face of the widespread ignorance of the Italian Constitution and Community law, there is no other answer than the simple, elementary and effective one, yet incredibly inevasive: the introduction of education to Italian and European citizenship as a formative backbone of the Italian citizen. Rebuilding a community that knows and makes its rights recognised, that knows and knows how to carry out its duties, passes through education in citizenship and knowledge and possession of the principles and values on which the Italian Constitution is founded, the Charter of the Rights of European citizens and the European Treaties. Senator Fedeli, when she led the Ministry of Education, introduced important innovations that go in the right direction. We, in this legislature, starting with Senators Ginetti and Malpezzi, Senator Rampi and also myself, have presented legislative proposals that go in this direction. I feel sad when I even see regional or municipal advisers or representatives of the institutions who do not know the difference between the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group]] 70% or more of Italian legislation is derived from European legislation, and we allow ourselves the luxury of not teaching at least the most important things of Community law in high school. So we do not form an Italian citizen and a European citizen. In our schools, therefore, we start immediately to train responsible citizens, aware and protagonists in Italy, in Europe and in the world. Dear colleagues, we all feel the weight and depth of the political, cultural and moral crisis of this difficult time. We can make a small but great contribution to restoring confidence in the future if we strengthen our boys and girls, who are, in power, the greatest treasure of our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u23	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an important measure and we will therefore vote in favour of it. I just want to highlight two aspects that unfortunately often occur in this branch of Parliament. The first is that the Senate did not have the opportunity to intervene. We are now in a single-camera system, in which the majority is the dominus, which has led to the fact that some amending contributions, I believe quite cross-cutting, which could well involve the majority and the opposition, have been rejected. I must also stress that, as was the case here yesterday in this House, a number of speeches have been made which I think are absolutely wrong and dangerous, with the use of Article 81 of the predominantly political Constitution. I said that we will vote in favour of this measure, because it is still a step forward. Of course there are gaps: first of all there is no dignity. What we should all fear - and I am also addressing the Undersecretary - is that it is only a bureaucratic practice: we are about to adopt a measure that risks being a manifest law; we are settling our consciences, each one its own, but then in reality little will happen. The cultural issue that goes through this country cannot be loaded only on the school, because so many terrible teachers are devastating the civic sense of this country. We don't have to think about downloading all this on the school, because the same school couldn't solve it. However, Mr Undersecretary, we will have to train teachers and we should discuss what we intend to do and there will be no Article 81 there. We should discuss how to address new issues that cross the themes of civic education. Yes, the Constitution and certainly the idea of citizenship, but what is the idea of citizenship today? And what kind of training will we do to teachers? How much will we invest? I expect that in the next budget law, if we really do not have the straw tail and we are firmly committed to making this qualitative leap, there will be a strategic investment that will help the school to do these things. I remind you that, not later than two years ago, with autonomy, schools wrote appeals for more members. Do you remember that high school that wrote "write your children here, because there are no immigrants here and there are many children of diplomats"? Thus, the problem of civic education is a matter of training which also forms part of the role of the Ministry of Education, University and Research. I hope that you, by voting in favour and by opening up credit to the Government, will be consistent in bringing the guidelines into question, since we have not been able to contribute to them here. How do you intend to do the civic education work? We want to participate and enrich that facility, otherwise it is just a bureaucratic manifest intervention. This would be the worst for our school. Undersecretary, we ask you, at the recovery, if it will be possible (if the Government will be available) to have the guidelines: tell us how you will do it, how will we manage to do the job? Finally, we invest; in fact, nothing is done to invariate expenditure. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] We in the opposition know this, you have been in the government for a short time, but you have already learned it very well. It is a serious commitment, a difficult and challenging cultural battle: do we want to do it at least on those fundamental points that should theoretically unite us, beyond the different political positions? Try it, give us a way to make a constructive contribution not to create walls, but to build an idea of society that is breaking down, as all observers tell us and how we see ourselves. Do we want to invest in an idea of a national, social and cultural community? Do you want to do it? I hope so, because there are already so many who invest in individualism, selfishness and the privatisation of public affairs. On this point, we want to open a real debate and debate. We are ready, but we will also be very careful in evaluating your behavior. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the teaching of legality is one of the fundamental foundations of every civilised country in the same way as all the other teachings that form young minds and must therefore represent an educational frontier of which the State must always be vigilant. The proposal to re-introduce, in a structural way, the teaching of civic education goes in this direction and therefore is of favourable appreciation also with a view to creating a virtuous circle between young citizens and institutions, especially with the administrations closest to the citizens, in application of the principle of vertical subsidiarity, such as local administrations, in order to encourage the assumption of the responsibility of the individual towards the community and towards the neighbour. (at 10.55 a.m.) (Follow PETRENGA). The objective of bringing the values of legality and citizenship, of the sense of the state and of civic competences, especially in certain areas where - unfortunately - the State has abdicated to its role means restoring the primacy of law and civil life, through the right balance of rights and duties that every citizen is obliged to respect, and radically transform society, positively affecting the future of the present young generations and, consequently, also in that of the future. The role of the school in this task, since primary school, is therefore essential: the timeliness with which educational content is offered can become the authentic distinction between failure and achievement of the objectives set. The objectives and objectives of this draft law are indisputable; however, because of the importance of this subject in the formation of young consciences, it would be desirable for it to be included as a time for further education than the time already foreseen. In fact, from the text under consideration, it is clear that in the schools of the first cycle, the teaching is entrusted in contiguousness to teachers. In the second cycle schools, schools use the staff of autonomy and, more specifically, where available, teachers qualified to teach legal and economic disciplines. This approach, however, would mean that in the teaching colleges throughout Italy since September there would be the beginning of a battle to decide which discipline and teacher to take away the hours (which could be at least 33) to devote to the new discipline, using the so-called quotas of autonomy, as provided for in Article 2, imagining the conflict that will arise in the colleges with the quotas. In view of these concerns, it would be desirable to amend the text, including the principle that teaching should be carried out by specialised staff in the field (A046) or by graduates of legal and economic subjects who have obtained a PhD or specialization in legal professions, therefore highly specialized, in order to assist the teaching staff in all schools of every order and grade. The fundamental concepts of law, legality and human rights, whose significance is indisputable, cannot be entrusted to episodic and provisional teaching actions, often the object of renunciation in favour of the matter of the moment. It is therefore necessary a structural intervention and of strong social impact, especially in relation to the historical and social situation of our country, given the strong spread of different phenomena, first marginal, that are becoming real social plagues: bullying, cyberbullying, feminicides, increase of micro and macro crime, discrimination of various kinds. The answer to cultural discomfort, to emotional illiteracy must be offered by the school. Therefore, it is necessary to bring young people, from the earliest age, close to the principles of legality and human rights, so that they can settle in their conscience and become in a completely natural way a source of inspiration and compass for future life choices. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u27	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u28	Mr President, it was because of Aldo Moro's awareness and will that the subject of studying the Constitution in our school was already mentioned in the work of the constituents. It was after ten years, in 1958, when Aldo Moro became Minister of Education, that he wanted to integrate his teaching. This theme, so important, last year has become very topical again, thanks to the mobilization of the National Association of Italian Municipalities, of many mayors and local administrators, with the intention of having at heart the unity of our territorial communities, in response to a very concrete risk, that of the disintegration and loss of the common values that hold us together. It is no coincidence that to that mobilization another has been added, that to strengthen in the school the study of history, the last great civil battle of the late Andrea Camilleri. Here is a first limit of the measure under consideration. We need additional hours and funds and we asked for them to be planned. This measure, on the other hand, risks increasing the difficulties for teachers called to choose, penalising precisely the humanities disciplines and the study of the '900, which is so important. That is why we have tabled so many amendments concerning historical memory: if only you had listened to us, gentlemen of the Government. Here, in your closing, there is the risk that the one we are discussing today is exclusively a commercial measure. I have also questioned the level of hypocrisy of these weeks because, when Aldo Moro strongly wanted the teaching of civic education, he was committed to building a civil pedagogy, a language based on the recognition of the reasons of others. His example of life and politics was one, without contradictions, meaning the respect of others as civic duty, certainly not silent of goodness. What is the intention of Salvini and Di Maio today? How have they conquered power, if not by introducing in public debate the poison of denigration, manipulation, an unconstitutional language of hatred, which is the opposite of civic education? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mrs. Meloni, Mr. Salvini, Mr. Di Maio, you constantly pump on line that language of hatred that poisons our society, which then becomes real life and real discrimination, so increasing the cases of racism, xenophobia, sexism, discrimination against the disabled, the opposite of what our Constitution says, which speaks of openness, integration, solidarity and in particular, in Article 3, of equality, that article that was written as a reaction to the racial laws of fascism of '38, because the Constitution was born of the Resistance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, Minister Salvini, how much civic rudeness is there in deciding to ignore and not to celebrate April 25, which is the founding date of our Republic, of our democracy, of our Constitution? [[Applause from the PD Group]] How much civic rudeness is there in saying "Close the ports" in a country like ours in whose Constitution, in Article 10, there is the precept of the right of asylum? How much civic rudeness is there in saying "the parcel is over" to whom, instead, escapes from torture and unspeakable violence? [[Applause from the PD Group]] How much civic rudeness is there in not paying homage to the bodies at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea and, among them, to those of women with newborn babies and young people who, like our boys, claim, through school, the future? I remember, in particular, the fourteen-year-old boy who wanted to sew himself into the back of the jacket the report card. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a greater example of civic education than that given by this child and have done well the schools that have placed in front of their institute a plaque to remember it as an example also for our generations and for our children too often distracted. But how much civic rudeness is there, Minister Salvini, in publishing your book with a publishing house close to the neo-fascists of CasaPound? [[Applause from the PD Group]] How much civic rudeness there is, Minister Salvini, in the photo posted by Luca Morisi, a government consultant who, in wishing good Easter to the Italians, portrays the Minister of the Interior with a machine gun in his hand, adding: They want to stop us, but we're armed! How much civic rudeness there is in identifying the guilty before the sentences are issued or in a mayor who takes food from the canteens to poor children, whose families cannot pay. How rude is there, Mr. Grillo, to post a video with the outline of President Boldrini and instigate verbal lynching, saying: What would you do in the car with her? [[Applause from the PD Group]] This happens in the country that has the huge plague of feminicides and in which every day a woman suffers violence. Gentlemen of the Government, how much civic rudeness there is in exploiting without restraint the pain of children and families of Bibbiano to attack and denigrate political opponents and the Democratic Party, which instead wants the truth as much as and more than others. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This provision is addressed to children. Walter Benjamin said: "the boys carry with them the image of the future." Then let us give them a ruling class to recognize themselves, to improve themselves, and not a ruling class to be ashamed of, as is happening. In the face of the moral disaster and the civic disaster, as well as economic disaster, for which you are responsible, this act appears and is a hypocritical act. And, in its hypocrisy, it appears and is an offensive act. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u29	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u30	Mr President, the government, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure and with the introduction of civic education in schools, the teaching of a fundamental subject is finally organic and systematic, from which all other disciplines start. I say this as a teacher, who has always held a great deal, before teaching his own subject, to teach the children to form their own and free civic conscience, fighting above all ignorance, which leads to intolerance. It is beyond doubt that civic education is the basis of the formation proper to the critical consciousness of which I have spoken and of conscious growth, based on culture, self-respect, respect for the other, respect for the dignity of the human person and the environment in which we live. We start again from school, we always start from school, we must always start from school, as we already started doing in 2008, as Forza Italia, introducing the teaching of citizenship and Constitution, an important basis to be updated and contextualized, because in these eleven years the world has changed; hence, for example, the introduction into the provision of environmental education and digital education. However, it remains an essential fact: the pedagogical value of the principles of our Constitution remains intact and always current, with that summa of principles and values that we have the task, the responsibility and the duty to bring back to the center and to spread it organically and systematically, starting with our young people (I don't mean starting from ourselves), because we would strongly like all of us, but especially the new generations, to recognize in our Charter, to practice it daily, affirming in a natural and spontaneous way the centrality of the person and pluralism, respect for democracy, for formal and substantial equality, for the merit and for the principle of subsidiarity. The goal is one and only one: to educate respect and awareness that for every right there is a duty, that hatred and intolerance must never find space in our common home. This means abolishing fear, fighting and overcoming ignorance, which is the mother of all evils. With fear people are subjugated and freedom is obscured, while freedom is above everything. But we know that managing freedom without respect for oneself and others is the most difficult task. We rediscover the indispensable value of the centrality of the human person within the State (of which it is necessary to know the role and function) and respect for the institutions. Respecting institutions means starting with respect for parents, teachers and every educational figure within society. Then there is the issue of digital education, which we must be able to manage, because within the network today the most dangerous attacks on the dignity of people are hidden and, in this, we too are fallacious. For these reasons, the educational provision of civic education must open up to digital citizenship, because being digital native does not mean being digital mature. As has been said, the measure has limits and shortcomings and something is wrong, such as - alas - we are now accustomed to seeing in all the measures that we are called upon to vote and support. However, as usual, rather than nothing, it is better rather. This is too important a matter not to be supported by everyone. I had tabled a specific amendment on environmental education, which I shall turn into an agenda, because the measure deals with this issue. My amendment was a little more complex, but I will invite the Government, which I have seen paying attention to this issue. I began to deal with environmental education with my first bill in 2009. Over the last ten years the world has changed and, therefore, we must start from this point of view too. This is our duty, the duty of the decision-makers: to carry out measures that are not limited to here and now, but that produce distant effects in time and that plant a seed that will become a tree, whose fruits will be reaped by the children of the children of our children. Ignatius Silone said that morality cannot live and flourish but in practical life and that we are also responsible for others. I don't think there's any other way to save your soul today. It saves the man who overcomes his selfishness as an individual, a family and a caste and who frees his soul from the idea of resignation to the wickedness of the existing. We have a sacred right to those who come after us, because we build their future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u31	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u32	Mr President, I am speaking on this issue, just as I have also done in the Commission on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, recalling and reassuring the representatives of minorities. The aim of avoiding amending the measure in question was certainly not to compress the spaces of bicameralism or not to enrich the bill, as it should be. I listened to President Errani's speech. We too would have liked to have included environmental and food education issues in the measure. The bill could have been enriched in various ways. By the way, with my colleague Floridia, Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars, we have deposited draft laws to give more body to the measure under consideration. However, we took note, from a point of view of responsibility, that if we had not modified the measure, which came from the Chamber of Deputies and voted by everyone, probably since next September, since the decrees of Minister Bussetti are ready, the obligatory teaching of civic education would come into force. Therefore, out of a sense of responsibility we have decided to approve it as it is and the teaching of civic education will be in force as early as September, with the beginning of the next school year. We then take all the time to reason together - I say this to our colleagues in the PD and to President Errani - and introduce some additional elements, perhaps in the next budget law, not necessarily only in terms of financial resources. So we have the total availability, of course with colleagues from Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia, to improve the provision. In the meantime it comes into force and then, gradually, we can also make adjustments, improvements that can undoubtedly go in the desired direction, contained also in many amendments that have been tabled. I would like to make it clear that there is no desire to compress, but only the willingness of the majority to work together to improve the measure perhaps later. That is the reasoning that has been made, what we have said in the Commission. I have listened to your speeches and proposals which are of great interest to us and on which we are available. We are sorry - I want to say this - about Senator Verducci's intervention, because before speaking and exploiting even against Salvini a provision like this talking about hate preachers, forgive me, but if there is anyone who preaches hate maybe it is that teacher who wrote: One less, and clearly with the unintelligent gaze. We won't miss it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Perhaps those are people who preach hatred and worry me, because they are the ones who should teach our children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] This is the real concern and there are - alas - more than one. But that's not all because I also heard the words "civical maleducation." Now, allow me, but is a PD Member going to take the conditions of the two Americans who killed the carabiniere a good example for our young people or is it a bad example? Tell us! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Does it hurt what I said? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci! She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u33	Mr President, it is clear that this bill is the answer to the legislator's awareness of the need to reason and strengthen the instruments available to our young people, who are nothing more than our future, in order to better address the new demands and new challenges that this particular historic moment imposes. So where do we start? If it is true what Calamandrei said, that if democracy is to be done first and then maintained and perfected, it can be said that the school, in the long run, is more important than Parliament, the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, it is natural that we should start from school. And then we start by promoting knowledge of our Constitutional Charter, which is nothing but knowledge of our rights, but also our duties. In fact, where a right is established, the corresponding duty is always established. Therefore, it is well to strengthen the knowledge of the institutional organization of our country and the functioning of our institutions, because it means giving the fundamental tools to develop the necessary critical thought that allows us to evaluate the work of our Parliament and our Government and therefore to choose in full awareness, as voters, who we want to administer this country. So we should also have a greater knowledge of the European institutions, a knowledge of history, of where the European Community is born and why it was designed because when we talk about recovering a Europe of citizens, of peoples, which puts the true values and needs of European citizens at the centre, we must also promote knowledge of the philosophical system that underlies and has been at the foundation of this institution and which must be back to its foundation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When we talk about civic education and citizenship, we also talk about the environment and do so in many ways, such as the environment around us. We live every day the emergency of climate change - I personally, like all of you - when we worry about reading the weather warnings, when we know that an extreme and intense phenomenon will come and we remember that we are not used to having to face such phenomena at all times, with such an insistent periodicity. If we then want to talk about combating climate change, we must first of all talk about our personal education of respect for the environment, which comes only from changing our daily life habits. And where better at school can we learn better living habits and respect for the environment? When we talk about the environment, we also talk about a legal environment, about living in the environment of legality and therefore of growing with a strong sense of state and legality, which is what will allow us not to continue to give oxygen to all those mechanisms, which feed the small daily lawlessness and the great lawlessness, which have afflicted and continue to afflict the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When we talk about the environment, we also talk about the digital environment, the environment in which we all live a second life, a parallel life. So let's talk about the need to supply real, authentic and legitimate information and to do so we no longer have to be fake readers, readers and consumers of fallacious news, but we have to be readers and consumers of informed news and knowledge, because only then, with knowledge, will we fight the phenomenon of fake news. We must learn to have responsible behavior and use, we must learn to develop awareness of the dangers and pitfalls present in the network, we must learn to develop awareness of our rights in the network, which are closely linked to the protection of our personal data and to the guarantee of democratic elective processes, linked to the use of our personal data itself. It is important, at national and international level - the case of Cambridge analytica teaches us and imposes this on us - to guarantee every citizen the freedom to vote, in the sense of being free to form democratically and knowingly their own opinion and their own voting orientation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the basis of democracy in our country and in all democracies in the world. When we talk about the environment, we also talk about protecting our artistic and cultural heritage, material and intangible, and our landscape. I was very impressed by the article by Tomaso Montanari appeared yesterday on the Daily Fact, who rightly praises the intervention of an official of the State, who acted with full awareness of the great responsibility he has in carrying out his function, so the construction of a McDrive was blocked near the Baths of Caracalla. Montanari concludes this article regretting that this official retired just yesterday and worrying about the future of the protection of our heritage, in the absence of an official so tied up, so passionate, so deeply man of the State. This concern, however, conceals a concern which must be wider. Let us ask ourselves why we are concerned that an official should retire. Perhaps because we are all aware of the fact that a sensitivity towards the protection of our artistic and cultural heritage and our landscape has not developed properly in our country, and this gives rise to this concern in us. Let the new generations, then, be aware of the Constitutional Charter and know this right to develop that sensitivity which will ensure that there should no longer be this concern, because it will be established that that right is always guaranteed in our country. Finally, I should like to conclude with two comments. The first is that this bill is very ambitious and clearly represents the first step that we want to take in the direction of a strengthening, in our country, of education to all these issues, including those to emotional intelligence, affectivity, respect for diversity, tolerance to those who decide to live, even affectionately, in a different way from us, because it is natural like this. A thought must also be devoted to what citizenship is today. However, I would like to draw the attention of this House to one final point, because school has a great social function and it is right to take this first step, but we who have the heavy burden of leaving as a legacy a livable planet, in which peoples live harmoniously together, what are we willing to do and what do we have on our political agenda as adults to leave this planet to future generations? The responsibility, in fact, is not only of future generations, but is primarily ours. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. On behalf of the Assembly I greet Senator Caliguri and Senator Pavanelli as new senators of the Senate of the Republic to whom we wish you well. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u35	I am against the amendments. On Amendment G1.1, I am going back to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u36	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion on the amendments and I accept, on behalf of the Government, the G1.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u37	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators, identical to Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u38	Mr President, I am against the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u39	Mr President, on the amendments, I agree with the rapporteur's amendment, while I accept the agendas for G2.1 and G2.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u40	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Segre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'with a vote'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.6 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Segre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Iannone, identical to amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Iori and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.13 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16 tabled by Senators Ginetti and Rampi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,17 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 2.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 and G2.2 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0,200, tabled by Senator Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u41	Mr President, I call for Amendment 3.1 to be withdrawn and I call for the rewording of Amendment 3.2 to be changed to the agenda with the following mechanism: it commits the Government to consider the possibility of providing training in the field of civil society. I am doing this because I am concerned about the widespread youth distress caused by the daily cases of violence between children, which have now become a real social emergency of our time and to which the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, which I have the honour to chair, has dedicated two cognitive investigations to direct Parliament on the actions to be taken to deal, for example, with the emergency of bullying. The school, which prepares tomorrow's citizens, has the duty to be the extension of the family as a fundamental training core to convey the principles and values contained in our Constitutional Charter, precisely of proper civil coexistence, based on self-respect, others and the environment around us. Proper civil coexistence is the only way to ensure a future of freedom and shared growth for the next generations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u42	Mr President, I have tabled three amendments, because the measure in question addresses many important issues from education to the road code, to love for animals: it is all very important but there is no phrase on gender equality, respect for diversity. I have therefore proposed three amendments which go in this direction, so that education in respect of gender identity and equal dignity between men and women, including through the study of the history of women and gender relations, also becomes an issue addressed by the measure under consideration. I intend to turn Amendment 3,200 into an agenda and withdraw Amendments 3,301 and 3,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u45	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to the agenda proposed by Senator Unterberger.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u48	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I also ask you to sign Senator Unterberger's agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u49	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u50	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, and on the agenda I am going back to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u51	Mr President, I am in favour, with rewording, of the agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 3.2, aimed at providing training content for civil society. I am therefore in favour of changing Amendment 3,200 to the agenda, provided that the following formula is adopted: Finally, Mr President, I am in favour of the G3.1, G3200 and G3.2 agendas, whereas it is against the G3201 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u52	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G3.20 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, on which the 5th Commission had requested a rewording. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission had requested a rewording. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senators Verducci and Iori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators, up to the words "to respect." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.10. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Modena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3/2000 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 3,301 and 3,202 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Segre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I was very impressed that an opinion had been delivered against the G3200 agenda, which was in fact the transformation of this amendment 3.19, but, because the concepts were the same, the transformation of Senator Unterberger's amendments into agendas. Frankly, I cannot really understand how, on the one hand, I am in favour of the transformation of the amendments on the agenda for the education of equality against discrimination and then I am against the agenda presented by me, which was obviously a little more articulated, but which commits the Government to introduce sentimental education into the curricula, which is the education of affectivity, to promote the change of socio-cultural patterns of behaviour of women and men with the aim of removing prejudices, customs, traditions and other practices based on the idea of distinguishing people by reason of their gender of belonging.......................................................................................................... I must say that I am appalled and I do not even understand the consistency in the expression of opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3.1, G3,200 and G3.2 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.201, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u59	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, we will vote in favour of Article 3, although we consider it a very serious mistake that we did not take Amendment 3.16 into proper consideration, at my first signature and signed by other senators, including the Cangini group leader, on the fact that civic education - I would like this to be accepted, especially by my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - is not only education in legality, because the children of our schools must also teach education in respect of the principle of not guilty and the right process, as well as education in the principle of rehabilitation of punishment and, above all, education in the knowledge of prisons, because very often children do not know what is going on. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a mistake to always have to do things quickly, leaving in half what is instead important. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u62	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I am going to vote in favour of Article 3 and the measure we are considering, but here too, as on other occasions, I see that we have been extremely careful and that an opportunity has been missed. In this article, in fact, there is no trace of words such as 'tolerance', 'integration' or 'acceptance' and the amendments on gender differences have not been accepted. Once again, bicameralism is denied and serious problems of our country are denied; on the contrary, it is pretended that they are not there because they are probably brought to the subject by someone who represents part of this Government. I am also extremely concerned about the question of who will be called to impart the teaching of civic education and, if ever there will be tutors who will initiate teachers to this teaching, what values will actually be present in these issues related to citizenship. It's a missed opportunity and it hurts me. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u63	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u64	I am against all the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u65	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u66	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.6 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 5.0,200 into an agenda so that the Government undertakes to consider the possibility of providing specific and organic training content for the promotion of environmental education at school. While aware that the bill concerns environmental education, considering the environment as the pivot of a wheel called "health", "agriculture", "tourism" and "education", we would very much consider that for the Government this specificity was strong and that in the world of school and especially in the training of teachers it was guaranteed because it was fundamental.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u68	Mr President, with amendment 5,200 I simply added to paragraph 2 (g) of Article 5 a reference, as well as to bullying and cyberbullying, to hate speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u71	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u72	The Presidency takes note of this. I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u73	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5. I'm going back to the government on the agenda for G5.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u74	Mr President, I am against the amendments and I am in favour of the G5.0.200 agenda as it stands.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u75	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,200, tabled by Senators Unterberger and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.0.200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u77	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u78	Let us move on to Amendment 6.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u79	Mr President, I am against Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u80	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u82	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u83	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Segre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u86	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u89	RONZULLI (FI-BP). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 9.1, 10.3 and 11.1 because they have the same content as the agenda that I presented earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u90	I take note of that. Amendment 9.2 is precluded. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u91	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u92	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u93	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.2 is precluded. Amendment 10.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 11, on which amendment 11.1 was tabled, which has been withdrawn. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments to insert additional articles after Article 12, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u94	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u95	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u96	Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.2 tabled by Senators Ginetti and Rampi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment Tit.1 is precluded by the rejection of amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u99	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues from the political forces who usually precede us for the kindness they offer us in circumstances such as this. It is a pity, Mr President, because we are forced to abstain from this measure. I would like to explain that, as President Romeo tried to do in his speech, because the things that President Romeo said are real. In the Commission he even asked for the amendments to be withdrawn to allow an acceleration to a draft law (remember: draft law, not decree-law), so that it could start immediately from next school year. But leave what? The question we didn't have an answer to is this: starting what? What is the content of this bill? What have we tried to propose, trying to play our role as senators? Mr President, there is no additional time, which Mr Salvini had so waved; there is no additional euro to the proposal that Mr Salvini has waved. There is, however, a remark, also trying to cancel, choices that we had made and that went from a point of view of helping schools. You see, President, within article 2, paragraph 9 - I want to quote it, because it is important - at a certain point it explains how this bill should enter into force; it is expected that Article 1 of the decree-law of 1 September 2008, n. 137, and paragraph 4 of article 2 and paragraph 10 of article 17 of the legislative decree of 13 April 2017, n. 62 will be repealed. What is the latest legislation approved in 2017? It is a legislative decree that concerns the evaluation of the conduct of pupils and derives from a delegation law inserted within the law on good school n. 107 of 2015; it was a legislative decree that the Minister had started taking into account the requests regarding the teaching of subjects related to citizenship and constitution, including their evaluation in the paths already present. In fact, education to citizenship and the Constitution - what you call civic education - has always been there and, during the last legislature, has been strengthened through a cross-cutting path that could really help all the class councils to work together, to express a sort of overall assessment of all good practices, but also on the sensibilities put in place by the individual schools. All this is already there. What have you done? Since you need the usual flag to wave, you have used a certain kind of setting by trying to pass - because you will - this provision before the beginning of the school year, and here you explain all your fury in wanting the approval of a law not reads, an hour not now, of a program not programmed, because this is. The lie, though, is that you want to make a wedding with dried figs. I'm sorry to use this expression for school, but you found that reforms, especially when it comes to school, need money and you decided that on school you don't want to put money on it, so you didn't spend a euro on it either. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So much so - and I address the teachers who are listening to us - that you write - and "paper sings" - that the additional work done by the teachers who will have to act as coordinators between the different souls of the school is at no cost and that is why we abstained from voting on Article 2 and we will abstain from the final vote. The teachers will be very happy with what you are going to approve: you write in fact that for the coordination tasks, which you have well listed - and there are many, because you have to put together all the class board, establish the objectives, the skills and how to divide the path during the week, the four-month and the year, since there is the vote, even if you do not say anything about the evaluation - there are no compensations, allowances, reimbursements of expenses or other amounts anyway denominated, unless the institutional bargaining establishes otherwise. You therefore eliminate the work already set for schools by legislative decree No 62 of 2017, add work, but do not allocate a single euro; this is your way of saying that the quality of teaching is thus formed. President Romeo, you are right in saying that the teacher who, referring to the murdered policeman, spoke of one less, in that way becero and vulgar, and who should not be in the classroom is an undoubted danger to the education system of our children, but you do not allocate a euro even on the training of teachers to avoid having such teachers in the classroom. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is useless then to preach well, to call principles and then to avoid in every way to be consequent, because to be consequent costs, as it costs to do things well; but, as I said before, it is important for you to fix a flag. You will see, colleagues, if, after the final vote on this measure, the next tweet will not be that of the Minister of the Interior (not of the Minister of Education) because we do not forget that this is the battle that, like a flag, the Minister of the Interior wanted to put on the sweatshirt or on the jacket (or on what he is wearing recently, perhaps the bathing suit). It will be the tweet compared to civic education time, but - we tell the parents - there is nothing of everything they have promised you. I say one thing, however, that perhaps little fits in with the tone of voice that I have at this time, even a little 'indignant for the continuous fake news that we have to endure from the ministry of propaganda, along with all weapons of mass distraction. I have heard here many references to constituent Fathers and great thinkers; we subscribe to them all. Allow me then to include the reflection, not of a constituent Father, but of a teacher, who, however, has dealt with the Constitution. Mario Lodi, a great pedagogist, teacher and writer, argued that the word "gentle" should be at the basis of any speech on the Constitution. I understand that the term "kindness" is no longer fashionable and I understand that it may seem naive, in front of the aggressiveness of this time, to call in question kindness as a method and as an instrument. But it is the means that can enable us to practice dialogue and the ability to listen to one another, right from school. I say this with regret: the policy that has been governing us for a year has understood this collective pedagogical process in a different way, has decided to intensify the clashes rather than mediating, has decided to ride the anger instead of sedate it with thought and proposals, has intended to put to the pillage those who expressed their free opinions. This very bad attitude is combined with the attempt we are making today in this House. Senator Errani was too kind when he gave you an open credit compared to what you're going to do in the next few months. We still don't believe you, because you keep cutting on the school and not putting in an investment euro. I hope, since the word and style of kindness cost nothing, that at least you can acquire it as a method for future days. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u102	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we have already motivated our vote in favour as a substantial opening of credit and also as a gentle challenge to the government. I hope that there will be an investment and that it will be recognized to the teachers, who are the architrave of the school system of our country, the possibility of having training and of being recognized the work they do, because we cannot ask them to do only volunteer work. I hope that there will be resources in the budget law; I hope that the Government, in the person of the Undersecretary, will tell us that it is committed (without reopening the debate) to defining guidelines capable of recovering the important contributions of this debate and that, because of the mono-cameralism in fact, we have not been able to put into practice. Mr President-in-Office, let us have this debate, so that the questions, the possibility of a summary and the possibility of taking a step forward will emerge. Senator Romeo said that there is full availability; I note this and appreciated this part of his speech. I didn't like another part. Senator Romeo, if parliamentarians go to visit inmates, it's not civic rudeness. In this country there is a jurisprudence and there is a right. [[Applause from Senator Rampi]] ). Our jurisprudence is based on the certainty of the sentence, the execution of the sentence, humanity and recovery. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] Stop making these speeches: they are wrong and create problems for our country. We defend the civic and legal sense of recovery, even of those who commit serious crimes. This is the culture of our country and this is a point from which we cannot go back. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u105	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of this measure, because, with the presentation of a legislative proposal, it has helped to affirm the need to strengthen the teaching of subjects of education to citizenship. Unfortunately, the constant facts of the news tell us that there is a strong social suffering among the very young, which constitutes a serious injury to the conscience of the citizen with respect to the State. Therefore, as always, we have had a constructive approach to the problem, which is clearly felt by all political forces, given the unanimous vote already expressed in the Chamber of Deputies, albeit with the natural and sacred differences of approach and sensitivity existing. We are satisfied with the approach and the establishment of the measure, because we are deeply convinced that making young people more aware of our national identity and of the functioning of our national and local institutions means, through school, training unique and unrepeatable experience of life, the citizens of the future, whom we hope will be better. In addition, we have also supported and tried to make a contribution to environmental education, which is an epochal theme, in our opinion, in a vision of the environment that is not archaic, but anthropocentric, because man must safeguard the environment, as an essential element for its development. Then there is the education of legality, which must be not the one declaimed, of books to be sold, but the legality of the daily life of all those citizens who do their duty and who represent the best testimony of our State and our national community. Of course, there is also the aspect that concerns the respect of people and the weakest (and, therefore, the bond of solidarity that represents the element that holds our community together), but also of things and animals. In addition, we think it is very important to take action on our young people in relation to the use of social media and access to the web, in order to combat phenomena of bullying, cyberbullying and other alienating lifestyles that make the real and physical dimension of existence lose, without increasing the spiritual dimension. We are pleased that the reference to our flag and Mameli's anthem has already been incorporated into the Chamber of Deputies. Knowledge of the symbols of our homeland is a fundamental prerequisite for the formation of young people. In the same way, we express satisfaction with the Government's acceptance of our agenda, which strengthens the aspect of social education and emotional intelligence, while recognizing the evident stranglehold that there has been confrontation in the Senate, to which we would have liked to devote more space, precisely to improve the functionality of the provision. We must also point out that Article 81 is too easy for the Commission to use and the problem of the invariance of expenditure. But we want to believe - and we will continue to fight for this - that this measure represents a step towards the construction of a new, indeed ancient, culture of citizenship that combines the value of freedom with that of duty. I was really sorry to hear the notes, the references and the references to a culture of hatred that we reject to the sender because when our leader, Giorgia Meloni, speaks of a nation that cannot continue to export more graduates than the immigrants who come to Italy, when we talk about the recognition of the best examples of our society, as in the case of the brigadiere Mario Cerciello Rega brutally killed, we love our homeland and we do not put in place a hate policy. We say this in favour of today's Italians and, above all, tomorrow's Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u108	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we live at a time when, not only in Italy, there is an increasing disaffection from democratic institutions. Several studies at international level tell us that there is an increasing number of citizens who no longer believe in democratic institutions, who do not see in them an absolute and fundamental value to guarantee the freedom and rights and duties of all. 12.20 p.m. (Unterberger follow-up). There are many reasons for this, and among them there is certainly a lack of knowledge of how they work. Many citizens criticize the European Union without knowing its history, its bodies, its way of working and its competences. The same applies to national institutions. During these years, for example, many attacks on the special autonomies showed that they ignored the historical reasons and did not know how they worked, so let this measure come to tell the Constitution and explain the institutions. My hope is that all of this will contribute to the growth of citizens who make their criticisms more consciously, so from the point of view of construction and not destruction. It is also important to have introduced the whole issue of digital knowledge into the measure. We are in the midst of a revolution in the forms of knowledge and, above all, the new generations must be able to understand the implications and risks that can make our lives run. There is the theme of privacy, the way in which they will handle sensitive data about their lives and there is above all the way in which they will evaluate the information of the network. It is clear that digital education is a fundamental element in the construction of tomorrow's citizens, in order to learn to distinguish between reliable sources and polluting sources, to verify the news and to question their plausibility. However, digital education must also be understood as a respectful and responsible way of expressing itself on the network, which must be rediscovered as a space of confrontation and not of offense and threats. As has already been said, given the spirit of the measure, I find it a shortcoming that I have not spent a word on gender equality and respect for diversity. I would therefore like to thank the Government for accepting my own agenda, which follows on from the one on the so-called red code, but now we have to move on from the commitments to the facts. We live in a historical phase in which the words of hatred on the web and physical violence against women are defeated also through educational and cultural interventions. It was therefore necessary to include in the measure the knowledge of the history of women and the rights that, with great difficulty, have won over the last hundred years. The history of women's emancipation is closely linked to the civil growth and values of the Constitution, which for the first time introduced universal suffrage in Italy and recognized the equality of all citizens and therefore also equality between the sexes. However, this is a positive measure and we will therefore vote in favour of it, but we do so knowing that, for young people, the example is worth more than words, particularly when it comes to personalities who have a role of responsibility. It is therefore right to adopt measures such as this, but it would be equally important for these values and precepts to be the basis of everyone's behaviour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u111	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's occasion and the related parliamentary debate on the teaching of law and civic education in all secondary schools in the first and second cycles should be considered particularly important. The educational and training element in the field of civic education can in fact prepare our new generations for a conscious citizenship, transmit to them a culture of legality, provide valid teachings to face life in society and also initiate students to the issues of economy, law and entrepreneurship. We are therefore called to enrich the educational offer of young Italians, in order to make their preparation more solid when choosing the path to take for their future, whether university or entry into the world of work and productivity. Moreover, we will also have the way and responsibility to perimeter the selective criteria and employment of teachers, to be employed, professionalized and valued, assumed as civic education will be dealt with in a cross-cutting way, employing the already present staff, to which to ask for this further proof of educational and didactic commitment. The text of the draft law we are discussing, in fact, addresses many issues: Constitution, institutions of the Italian State, the European Union and international bodies, history of the flag and national anthem, sustainable development, education to digital citizenship, fundamental elements of law, environmental education, sustainable development and protection of the environmental heritage, identities, productions and regional and agri-food excellence, education to the legality and contrast of mafias, education to respect and the valorization of cultural heritage, even basic training in civil protection and first aid. In our opinion, even for the increasing presence of students of foreign origin, a didactic of civic education must also be able to convey, like all humanistic subjects, a deep sense of Italianity, respect and adherence to our model of society and civil order. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In this sense we like to think of a teaching that has at heart not only civic education, but also and properly a transmission of Italian civilizations, in its formidable grandeur. Of course, in compliance with the guidelines for global education, we believe that civic education serves a general, social and democratic cause, as it contributes to the development of habits and values proper to the moral sphere, such as commitment, order, responsibility, respect and solidarity, in order to develop a positive adequacy within a pluralistic society, in continuous change. However, we are also determined to give a technical direction, not only generically ethical, to this teaching, assumed as necessary that young people have the basic knowledge and skills related to the economic, business and financial system in order to be fully citizens of their community of reference and to promote to the full their talent of today that will be the Italian primacy of tomorrow. Elements of environmental education, road education, health education, food education, a deepening of the Italian Constitution and the primary rules of civil coexistence can, overall, be useful to a training path of the youngest ages, while more and more necessary we appear to be an active and peculiar teaching of law and economy as the student grows and prepares for the challenges of life. All in all, from a political point of view, we welcome the contribution that all the parliamentary forces have made to this debate, in a hoped-for joint effort to draw up an intervention that can strike the best balance between the issues of cohesion, participation, subsidiarity and those of rigour, legality and respect for our legal and civil system, up to a true training offer in terms of legal and economic preparation. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Group of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione strongly expresses its opinion in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u114	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, fellow senators, I would like to say that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this law, sharing its aims, while regretting the fact that not a single euro has been allocated to crown and make concrete the objectives that the bill sets itself, the fact that not an additional hour has been introduced for civic education and the fact that, once again, this branch of Parliament has been marginalized by the legislative process and all of us - and I say this in particular to our colleagues in the majority - have not been able to exercise our right-to influence the laws, possibly to improve them. Having said that, I am interested to note that in the 7th Commission here in the Senate yesterday two significant issues were strongly imposed on which depend the outcome, the substance and the quality not only of this measure, but of the entire legislative process of this Parliament. The two issues are Article 81 of the Constitution and the role and function of the General Accounting of the State. Article 81 of the Constitution - we all know - is that which, in accordance with the notorious fiscal compact, imposes not the balance, but the balance of the budget between expenditure and revenue of a State and therefore strongly binds the margins of autonomy of any Government. We have it in the Constitution, so the constraint is maximum. Other countries felt that they did not put it into a constitution, even the European Union felt that it was not binding in such a strict manner. It is therefore possible to question and reason on the desirability of revising this article of the Constitution. Vice Prime Minister Salvini and Vice Prime Minister Di Maio have done it with great passion - to use an understatement - in the past few months and years. The House has a draft law to repeal Article 81 of the Constitution, in the so-called narrow government contract between the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, the need for an adaptation of Article 81 of the Constitution is supported. That this is an evil, therefore, there is no doubt; it is surprising that, during this first year of the legislature, these reformist objectives have evidently become abyssed in the heart and practice of the majority. The other question concerns the General Accounting of the State: we all still remember the violent controversy of the vice president of the Council Di Maio against the then general accountant of the Franco State and the notorious question, which will probably remain in the memory of those who follow the work of the Parliament and reads the newspapers, on the "manina" of the Accounting, which perhaps would have altered the accounts of the decree-law dignity. Let us remember that in this Chamber - it has not been much time, after all: it was February - the leader of the League, Senator Romeo, and the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senator Patuanelli, have strongly defended the deep, complex and not trivial principle of the primacy of politics, opposing what, according to them, was the overpower of the General Accounting of the State. Many years ago, when we were still not talking about the role of technicians in relation to politicians, I made an inquiry on this subject, evoked by the stories of a senator whom I esteemed very much, whose name I am pleased to return to echo in this Chamber: his name was Altero Matteoli; we all remember him, I think. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Matteoli, who was a born minister, had a sense of the institutions, a great parliamentary experience and a sincere attachment to the common good and to the national interest, lamented the fact that even one with his substance and experience, as a minister, struggled daily to contain the presumption of the General Accounting of the State. Not only does this play its role - essential for those who believe in the rule of law, in the separation of powers and in the need for balances - but at times it risks believing that it has a political orientation, which is obviously not right. We can therefore also talk about the function of the General Accounting of the State. You can understand that, with these premises, great were mine and our astonishment in observing yesterday in the 7th Commission that most of the amendments proposed by the oppositions had been declared inadmissible because - heard, heard - the General Accounting of the State had declared them such. Why? In his view, they were in breach of Article 81 of the Constitution. These were not amendments which included expenditure on the State: however, the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State was well taken, which the 5th Commission - led, as is well known, by a representative of the 5 Star Movement - has pedessequamentely ratified. Mrs Malpezzi has had the merit of raising this issue and a debate has followed in which I have roughly said what I am saying to this House today. My surprise has become a real surprise, at the time when my colleague, the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars in the 7th Commission, Senator Granato, replied, arguing - and I use his own adjectives - that, yes, it is true that the General Accounting of the State uses criteria "unscrutable," but that these are 'unspeakable' decisions. I believe that there is nothing indisputable and that those who are destined to serve as legislators have the right and, at times, the duty to review everything. I was surprised to see how from the revolutionary theory of sovereignty and the primacy of politics has slipped passively towards the respect and respect of the true heart of the power of this Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] It is not the first ideal betrayal: long is the sequence of betrayals of principles, founding and identity values and electoral commitments signed by the Movimento 5 Stars - as, I regret to say, by the North League - with their respective voters. This, in my opinion, is the most symptomatic aspect: here today we certify that you have sold the soul to the devil. You have passed with what you thought to be the enemy, the technocratic and financial power, which has so many and so many times blossomed your lips in your public speech. (at 12.35 a.m.) (Following CANGINI). If this is the reality, if the only change that this year of legislature has succeeded in achieving on you, on your identity, certainly not on society, we take note of it; we note that you have sold your soul, we believe that we are in a position to prevent you from selling and selling out the country [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Rufa.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u117	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I have prepared a speech for this House very carefully. I am in the first parliamentary term and I tend to listen and observe much more than I am speaking. I believe a lot in the exercise of the word and for this I do not like to abuse it; I think that others can always teach me something, so before colleagues who have even decades of parliamentary life on their shoulders, I treasure their words and before intervening I make sure I have something intelligent to say; clearly I do not claim to succeed, but you are in good company sometimes. In any case, I had prepared an intervention aimed at disassembling criticism and highlighting the strengths of the measure under consideration, but many colleagues have well anticipated me, such as Senator Montevecchi, so I am giving a different cut and being this an explanation of vote, I want to put down the mask and speak with my heart. Yes, the provision in question is imperfect, I am aware of it, we are aware of it. It is imperfect, it is true, in fact we did not call it "good civic education," because we know that it is not the case to self-evaluate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since we understand that the measure can be improved (in fact, we have already discussed it), we have prepared agendas, accepted by the Government, aimed at going to the extent that resources and perhaps teachers are expected - why not? - dedicated to the subject itself. Meanwhile, even if the bill in question is improved, it is urgent; I also heard it from the words of Senator Verducci, who said that we are in a climate of hatred, regardless of who is fomented. There is, therefore, an urgency and then we welcome it with a vote in favour of everyone. We must ensure - and with this measure we will do so - that civic education is not left to the sensitivity of teachers, but at least now becomes a constant path. Mr President, I address the teachers who are outside this House, to whom we owe thanks as legislators, because they are able to make it work and to improve in practice any law that comes out of our presumption of law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think, for example, when we had to adapt - and I say we had to adapt - to the Gelmini reform that cut the time of history in the school, inventing a new subject, the geohistory: it was the teachers who were good and gave dignity to this new matter, the result of cuts. When colleagues arrived, from an idea perhaps brilliant and revolutionary but stuck in a rigid system, with rules, even in that case the teachers of reinforcement, essentially of law, were so good to reinvent themselves and be part of a system. Mr President, I love the meaning of words and not the signifier or the phoneme (the linguists will have understood), so the dialectical style exercises have little passion for me, even if they amuse me; I am interested in simple things, like me. The point is as follows: will this measure help children to learn more about the Constitution, to talk about it in class more frequently, to understand and to reflect on their digital citizenship, to mature the competences of a sensitive citizenship? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yes. The answer is simply yes and that is enough for us. To us who? To us of the majority and to us of the Movimento 5 Stars, which, in the part of the defects and the small narrative that is often made of us, we have a value that overcomes all the defects, presumed and real. We have the merit of bringing in these classrooms not only the representatives of the citizens. Objections often say: we represent the citizens. Of course, we all represent the citizens, but the Movimento 5 Stars brought in directly the citizens, who did not make decades of journeys in the various political groups and who come from real life, from the real professions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] BITI (PD). That's enough! BELLANOVA (PD). We're all citizens! Floridia (M5S). So, we still have too much memory of what's needed out there, from where I've been coming for a year or so. And now I'm just making a reflection, which now falls to perfection, before declaring the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. I started my speech by saying that I love listening. BITI (PD). You wouldn't say that! Floridia (M5S). I love to listen, but now here's a teacher thing, not a senator thing, let me tell you. Perhaps we should all go to civic school and, of course, many of us in this House! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If there is a subject that never goes out of fashion and that remains impressed in the boys is the example. In this House we are not always setting a good example: I am thinking of verses, offenses, of crying out loud and without content; I am thinking of anger, anger shouted out in some words and the sarcastic smile immediately afterwards, which demeans those screams and makes it clear that, evidently, it was not anger felt and did not represent a real discomfort. [[Comments of Senator Gallone.]] Giro (FI-BP). What are you talking about? What about the Vaffa Day, then? Calm down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giro, I invite you to calm down. Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I would like to express my opinion. If it was understandable to see the Movement, at the first legislature, ardently manifesting its existence in Parliament, perhaps sometimes even in an inappropriate way, but after decades of waiting to be heard, as citizens, to see, instead, now, the same demonstrations broken aside by those who ruled for years and years, as if misfortunes and cataclysms had suddenly come upon them, it is really strange. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Biti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u118	Senator Biti, I remind you and everyone that the first rule of civic education is to be able to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u119	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I teach in a high school, they can come to me! Mr President, I turn now to those who really matter, to our children. I want to talk to them. Know that civic education, education for active and responsible citizenship, is a living matter, which you need, just as much as we need it in this House. That is why we are calmly voting for this measure. And what do we hope for, guys? That, thanks also to this measure, you can educate yourself to love and defend our beautiful and fragile democracy. I hope you will enjoy citizenship and political participation so much that you take our place, with more zeal, with more merit, perhaps. I hope you will feel what I have been feeling for a year and a half every day, crossing the threshold of the Senate. I hope you have such a noble and profound sense of responsibility that you turn your back, but that it deepens your footsteps. I wish you a sense of respect for democracy, recognizing it not as a gift but as a strenuous achievement to be preserved. I hope that you will feel the duty that I, all of us, have to defend the rights and duties of everyone. This is also done by example. I am sorry that sometimes we do not succeed in this House. I hope you will defend the weakest citizens and get out of these Palaces, your offices, your companies, one tomorrow, more and more honest than you have entered. I hope this for all of you, and I hope you are not afraid of having the courage to be a citizen. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u120	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 1264, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 233, 303, 610, 796, 863 and 1031.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the timetable for the closure of today's plenary session has been largely exceeded, the remaining items on the agenda will be scheduled for the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u124	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I take this opportunity, my office and its function to draw the attention of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and of ANAS SpA to the expropriations that were obtained about forty years ago and made possible the connection for the traditional mobility between Chieti and Pescara, realizing the equipped axis Chieti-Pescara for an area that brings together 400,000 users. Well, those expropriations in forty years have never been paid. This important infrastructure, which has the rank of a toll-free European motorway link, contracted by Cassa del Mezzogiorno with the then extraordinary funds, must be regularised, since it could happen that the winners of the litigation, owners of the expropriated firms, through the institute provided for by Article 700 of the Code of Civil Procedure, can recover to themselves those plots of land. This would lead to the demobilisation of the important infrastructure, with the consequent demobilisation of the fundamental right to mobility. There are resources in a special chapter in stock at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, due to the law that has exceeded the management of the Agency of the Mezzogiorno; those resources, which have a capacity of more than 10 million euros needed, must be used to cover the rights statuated by the civil judiciary, with judgments passed in court, in favour of the expropriated citizens. Mr President, Europe has established itself and is recognised as giving rise to the recognition of certain fundamental rights. Among these is the right to private property, which can be functionalized for needs and collective rights, but there is a need for economic recognition. Civil justice has been established through appropriate judgment passed into court. We do not understand why we do not overcome the current uncertainty. I conclude with a note: Professor Guido Melis, who was a Sardinian parliamentary and authoritative public administration scholar, taught us that public administration makes sense if it brings the norm closer to the actual case. There is a concrete case, which is to cover the norm, and there are resources. We must ensure that those resources are used for this purpose. This intervention calls for the answer to Question No 392, which I have tabled, and which has not yet been answered. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u127	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to a serious matter: just yesterday the Council of Ministers authorised the pilot plant of a geothermal power plant in the municipality of Castel Giorgio, which will affect the entire Alfina plateau and the basin of Lake Bolsena. Already in recent days I have asked a question about this issue to be clarified by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea and by the Minister for Economic Development. Of course, I did not receive an answer and yesterday I heard the bad news of the Council of Ministers' authorization. Since all the local realities, mayors, administrators and various cultural associations present on that territory have expressed themselves in a contrary way and have emphasized all the criticalities - I remember that the plant will pick up, for at least twenty-five years, 1,000 tons per hour of geothermal fluid, and then inject them, cooled, under the basin of Lake Bolsena - the consequences of such action no one will know them a priori. In addition to the municipalities, the Umbria and Lazio Regions have also expressed a negative opinion. There are also quite specific points in this affair, because the chairman of the Technical Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment seems to have been one of the consultants of the company who requested the approval of the plant. We have gone forward sent without having given any clarification even on these events a little'singular. The municipalities of that territory are very famous especially for the great tourist flow; such a plant could really compromise in an irreparable way all the economic induced of the area. We are not talking about protecting the health of our citizens, because from this point of view too, the appropriate investigations have not been carried out. It is not fair to pass over the will of territories, administrators and citizens. The Ministers for Health and the Environment will have to take full responsibility for an act which runs counter to the will of an entire territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u130	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Siena is my second home. I taught morphology and geomorphology applied for over 26 years. I have researched many parts of the territory, including the slopes of Mount Amiata, the mountain sacred to the Etruscans and, therefore, to all Tuscans. On July 27 and 28, the eastern side of the mountain was affected by an exceptional storm, which discharged over 200 millimeters of rain in a few hours. Few artificial canalizations can dispose of 200 millimeters of rain and if the water, flowing along the slopes, is loaded with debris and vegetation, the canalizations are quickly occluse; the water flow begins to flow to the surface descending along the depressions, whether natural or artificial, generating debris flows mixed with mud. The transport capacity of these flows is enormous and obstacles are easily bypassed. The event led to the flooding of many homes and the damage or destruction of a number of cars still unknown. Our solidarity goes to the mayor Fabrizio Tondi of Abbadia San Salvatore, to the staff of the technical office, to the volunteers who have faced emergencies and to all the citizens who, thanks to the proverbial stubbornness that distinguishes them, will be able to recover also from this umpteenth disaster. The Amiata is a giant from the feet of clay; clay that emerges below the volcanic soils creating conditions of danger from widespread landslide even when the precipitations are less intense than those of July 28. Volcanic soils absorb huge amounts of water, but it is almost impossible to cope with water bombs. Similar phenomena have also affected the sectors of the Val di Chiana, near Bettolle, but also numerous localities of the Aretino, in particular the hamlets of Policiano, Sant'Anastasio, Olmo, Rigutino and Marciano della Chiana, just to name a few. Such phenomena also existed in the past, but were rarer, and occurred at intervals of decades of time. The current climate change and the strong summer warming of the emerged lands lead to a greater frequency of extreme phenomena. What can we do to prevent and reduce the impact of these phenomena? It is necessary a widespread care of the territory, care that has been neglected for too long. The ditches must be deepened and avoid their occlusion; it is also necessary to oversize the new sewers and artificial drainage routes, aware that the exceptional event will manifest itself in the short term. There is also a need for constant monitoring of the millions of landslides that gravitate on the watercourses and that, in the event of an exceptional event, can activate themselves, reach the valley floor and provide solid material to the water flow. To reduce the danger and the risks is an immense undertaking, but the Government of change has accelerated the interventions, but unfortunately they will not be able to eliminate the problem generated by dozens of years of lack of interventions, with the municipalities without or with very little funding. The emergency plan for the disaster launched in April has allocated 3 billion euros for 2019 to be allocated to interventions immediately cantierabile. On the face of change, as long as we proceed with the model of energetic development, using fossil energies, the temperature of the Planet is destined to increase. The government is promoting the use of renewable energy. We are encouraging the transition to electrical and gentle locomotion, the modernisation and use of the train, the use of the sea routes. The government has predicted that the country will go entirely to renewable energy in 2050, but we will try to do everything we can to get there much earlier. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u133	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to what was reported yesterday and also today by the Calabrian and national press. Even today, the newspapers rightly highlight the news, and I think it is important that this House should also make it known. Since the first hours of yesterday morning, the State Police, coordinated by the DDA of Reggio Calabria, has executed 17 detention orders, 12 in prison and 5 under house arrest, issued against local and regional entrepreneurs and politicians, accused of being enslaved to the will of organized crime as affiliates or external competitors. The list of suspects also includes prominent politicians of the Calabria Region, belonging to different political forces (PD, Brothers of Italy and one initially elected in Forza Italia, then passed through the Brothers of Italy); among others, even the regional leaders of Brothers of Italy and the PD in the regional council. Is it possible that the parties did not know or suspect anything? Once again, the judiciary shows that there are many problems in this area. According to the surveys, the political ideas of the Calabrian right and left and of some of these politicians, who belonged to those political areas, would have left room for the logic of the do ut des, intended to favor not only the single consort, but also the 'ndranghetistic' system as a whole. Politicians are accused of being referents of one of the most powerful families of the 'ndrangheta, by virtue of a stable and permanent agreement. The representatives of the Cosca had, according to the data in possession and reported by the press, obtained large packets of votes during the electoral, municipal and regional consultations, in exchange for benefits of various kinds (jobs, trusts with local authorities, resolution of problems with public administrations or procurements). In particular, the survey is highlighting the dynamics that would have affected the regional elections of November 2014. Vows in exchange for favors would be diverted to some of the politicians then elected. The undersigned on that occasion was among the candidates of the Movimento 5 Stars to the regional council. I remember traveling around Calabria far and wide in the squares, among the people and with the people of good will. We didn't win. Then we took a few percentage points, but I can be proud to have used only my strength and those of the activists, extraordinary boys who, with a spirit of uncommon self-denial, accompanied me throughout the month of the election campaign, in an excellent way. We may be able to agree - this I think - but the policy we are making is transparent, that everyone recognizes us in the light of the sun; other practices will never belong to us and never belong to us. What I think is that we should never reduce the noble art of politics, exercised at the service of citizens in the exclusive public interest, bartering between tips, votes and promises of favors. We of the Movimento 5 Stars are working on another plan, putting our hand to the real needs of the people, on which with patience and commitment we will find a solution, protecting exclusively the common good and, with the help of the Calabrians of good will, we will succeed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u136	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to call for the debate on motion 1-00147 which I tabled about a month ago on a subject that is particularly close to my heart and which should represent for the entire Senate Assembly the opportunity to address an issue that appeared on the pages of all the newspapers, namely the forthcoming discussion of the Constitutional Court's order in relation to a draft law on euthanasia. As you well know, Mr President - and as colleagues know - the order sets out very clearly the deadline of 24 September for the adoption of the law. The theme is so incandescent that a few days ago there was a strong manipulation of the interpretation of the same document published by the National Committee of Bioethics until, even on the main newspapers, information completely distant from the truth and objectivity of the data. There is an attempt to manipulate public opinion. In the press conference last Monday, the Radicals argued that 93 percent of Italians are in favour of euthanasia: while a small personal survey would suffice to understand that it is true that there are people in favour of euthanasia, it is also true that most people ask for palliative care. In the same bill that we have just passed on civic education, the right to life, the right to health and well-being are expressly indicated among the objectives. This is the specific content of the measure on the introduction of the school education of civic education that we have just voted on: it is in the act and we can all read it. However, there is a movement - I don't know who you benefit from - that tends to give a feeling quite different from the common feeling of the country. In all this the Senate runs the risk of being completely cut off from the debate. We do not yet know whether the House of Deputies will really be able to schedule and discuss the measure: there were still difficulties last night. What I am asking is to discuss a motion in which we say that we do not shy away from the debate on the maximum systems, so to speak. We know that there are differences and that there can also emerge positions between them very articulated. As senators, however, we have the courage to say that we will take a position and assume a responsibility. Let's not let the Constitutional Court dictate the line. Let us not give up our prerogatives. The Senate, in a context already subject - as we all know - to an urgent decree that marks the rhythm of the work, struggles to assume its responsibility as legislator. In this case, however, we do not want to give it up automatically. I therefore ask you, Mr President, if possible, to schedule the motion at my first signature. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-141.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, August 5, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.
