ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u3	I communicate that on 11 January 2019 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Justice
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders adopted changes to the current timetable and approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 7 February. In relation to the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a, the discussion of the Decree-Law simplifications will begin on Tuesday 22 January, with sitting from 9.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. To this end, the distribution of discussion times between the Groups has been re-modulated. The current week will therefore be devoted mainly to the work of the Commissions. The question time is confirmed for Thursday 17 at 3 pm, with the presence of ministers Salvini, Bussetti and Fontana. On Wednesday 23 January, at 4 p.m., the Minister of Justice's report on the administration of justice will be discussed. The debate was devoted to the allocation of time between the groups. The last week of January will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In the week from 5 to 7 February will be discussed the constitutional bill on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and - where concluded by the Commissions - the bill on the applicability of electoral laws, on video surveillance and ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage. On Thursday 24 January and Thursday 7 February the inspection union and the question time are planned. The Conference of Leaders also agreed to confirm at its annual session in 2019 the delegation of senators currently in office at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On Wednesday 23 January, at 8.30 a.m., the bicameral committees will be convened for their establishment, simplification and regional issues, while on Thursday 24 January, at 8.30 a.m., the committees will be convened for the supervision of tax registers and control of managing bodies. Also on Thursday 24 January, at 8.30 a.m., the Guarantee Council will be convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of January and February 2019: - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice - Drawing of Law No 214 and related - Amendments to the Constitution concerning the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament (first resolution of the Senate) - Draft Law No 881 - Provisions to ensure the applicability of electoral laws irrespective of the number of Members of Parliament (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 897 and related - Measures to prevent and combat conduct of ill-treatment or abuse, including of a psychological nature, to the detriment of minors in educational services for children and in children's schools and persons hosted in socio-health and social assistance structures for the elderly and persons with disabilities and delegation to the Government in the matter of training of staff (approved by the Chamber of Members) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of documents of law n. 257 and 702
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u6	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 7 February, pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Thursday, 17 January h. 15 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] [[Tuesday, January 22, h. 9.30-22 - Drawing of law n. 989 - Decree-Law n. 135, Simplifications (end 12 February 2019) - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice (Wednesday 23, 16:00) - Inspection union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 24, 15:00) Wednesday 23 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 24 " h. 9.30]] The week from 29 to 31 January will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, February 5 h. 9,30-20 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 214 and related, Reduction of parliamentary number (first resolution of the Senate) - Drawing of law n. 881, applicability of electoral laws (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Legal drawings nn. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection Union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7, 15:00) Wednesday 6" h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7" h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 214 and related (Reduction of parliamentary number) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 31 January 2019. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 881 (Application of electoral laws) and No 897 and related (Videosurveillance) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 989 (Decree-Law No 135, Simplifications) (11 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 8 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 30' FI-BP 1 h. 40' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. PD 1 h. 34' FdI 52' Mixed 48' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 40' Dissentents 5']] Report by the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u9	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we voted against this timetable at the Conference of Leaders. In these days we have seen a very heated debate on the blocking of public investment that this Government is inflicting on Italy, on the consequences for our economy, on our growth or better - as we have understood very clearly recently - on our decline. In this debate there is the important, indeed very important, issue of intervention on the TAV, an issue that we have known very well for many years, on which so many governments and so many majorities have spoken. Over the years and decades on the TAV there has been a complicated confrontation with the local populations, there has also been an important improvement by the competent authorities over the initial project and today in our view it is a necessary project for the future of the country and for international connections, as well as for the economic value in itself. Since most people enjoy, have taste, have fun in continuing to make fun of Italians in newspapers, with the media, on social networks taking the most different positions and trying to create a confusion, or rather a curtain of smoke for which you never really understand what you think, we asked for a very simple act of transparency, clarity towards Italy and what we expect for Italy from the future. The government must have the courage to express its own decisions and the political forces that support it must have the courage to come to its home, the Italian Parliament, and tell us what they think about the future of the TAV. The Democratic Party has clarity with regard to this, it has tabled motion 65, which we ask to schedule this week, on Thursday morning, so that all political forces say to the Italians, to the Piedmontese, to the Turinese who have come to the square, exactly what their thoughts are. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Just hide behind the smoke of strange Commissions, made ad hoc for what? To give a judgment of merit? No, to earn, indeed, to make Italians, Italy and our economy lose months and months, doing very serious damage. We therefore call for a change in the timetable and for all the opposition forces, who are as convinced as we are of the goodness of the work, to vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u12	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, we too would like to reflect, from our perspective, what has happened at the Conference of the Leaders and why we have decided to vote against the timetable proposed by the Government, which is in fact arranged and then reorganized by a Government which is unable to give itself a timetable of work that it can respect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want to stress this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not just form: we know that in politics, especially in these parliamentary classrooms, the form is substance. What we have said and say as a parliamentary group and which we also want to reiterate outside this House is that the responsibility for measures that are always delayed and are voted in a closed box in accordance with the old format of the budget law cannot be blamed on the minority. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We can't let that happen anymore, colleagues. We can no longer allow the government to hold parliamentary assemblies held hostage by a confused majority. Please refellow with yourselves. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not possible for the measure on support and simplification for businesses and public administration, which is becoming the most complex in the history of this House, to be the subject of a number of amendments of the highest majority than those of the opposition. Clearly, there is a problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As it is clear that there is a problem every time the Government puts trust. Affixing trust is a difficulty for the Government to remain associated with itself. That is why, Mr President, and my colleagues, we have voted against this timetable. Another reason? We have also presented motions. We too have tabled a motion to which we attach the greatest importance: the motion to promote the continuation of the work of the TAV, the High Speed Turin-Lyon, to which not only we, but many productive categories that cannot be ignored connect the future, the well-being and the continuation of the economic development of the country. There have been strong commitments, including institutional commitments from parliamentary assemblies. We have tabled our own motion, like Forza Italia, because we claim the originality and univocity of the position on the TAV, always TAV, only by the political side of center-right. We've never changed our minds. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have always been in favour of high speed. We are those of the law on great works. We are those of the high speed realized, not told. We are the ones who have never changed their mind depending on the areas where they went to tell about the high speed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We said yes in Turin, as in Val di Susa, unlike some Presidents of the Piedmontese Region who instead changed their minds depending on the territory they were enlisting. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And that is why we demand and demand the calendarization of an autonomous motion of Forza Italia, which has always said yes and strongly believed in high speed. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen - and with this I conclude, Mr President, because it is a further request from Forza Italia - we would like to call for a motion to be drawn up which takes account of words which cannot be ignored: the words which the President of the Republic has spoken - I shall not mention your name, Mr President, but the content is important - on 31 December last year. The President, claiming his role as the third guarantor of the Constitution, has turned a spotlight on the difficulty of endorsing procedures such as those which Parliament has undergone - procedures for snatching, violence and speech cutting - in constancy with the procedural process of budgetary law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He said: political forces have the capacity and strength to confront themselves, even now that the budget law has been passed, on the content of the budget law. In conjunction with this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what we discussed at the Conference of Leaders, and this is an issue that I want to bring to the attention of this House and of the country. Another fundamental issue, which is linked to the impetus given by the President of the Republic to this Parliament to claim its prerogatives, is the determination of the Constitutional Court not to accept the Democratic Party's appeal to the procedure adopted by this Parliament for budgetary law, but with a series of considerations to say the least suggestive for the future, namely the possibility for each Member of Parliament to appeal directly to the Constitutional Court and above all the warning: never again do what you have done for the budget law or it will be constitutional illegitimacy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Mr President, we are the protagonists of these classrooms, we are the representatives of the citizens who brought us here and we cannot ignore either of them. So I am officially asking, on behalf of my Group, for the calendarization of a motion that takes into account these elements, as well as two other motions, which have long been waiting to be scheduled, on autism and on other disabilities and on the Comites, that is, Italian citizens elected abroad who have always been organized, even in the previous legislatures. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u15	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on behalf of the Socialist component present in the Senate and I am doing so in order to join in the demands already made by the President of the Democratic Party and now by the President of the Forza Italia Group, who is convinced by an experience which has never failed in the parliamentary classrooms, except in the last debate on the budget law. In general, in the discussion on the financial maneuver, a plan of the infrastructural works of which the Country needs is attached. We have experienced a particularly negative moment in the last debate, when that plan has not been annexed. And today we do not know, except to have the certainty that 24 billion works have been blocked by the current Government, what are the priorities of the Government Salvini-Di Maio in executing works that the Country needs; 24 billion works blocked and the TAV is among them. This is the reason why a rapid debate, all the better this week, on the subject of the TAV and the major public works that have been blocked to date cannot fail at all. I understand the reasons. I recall that the League Group, on 8 April 2014, in this House voted in favour of the Italian-French international agreement, which put the word "fine" alongside a series of other facts and measures, on the subject of high speed Turin-Lyon. Today it is called into question: it is right that the Assembly review the issue and stop the point, because the work is very significant for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u18	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking only to reiterate in this House the very clear position of the League at the Conference of Leaders. Nobody wants to deny Parliament a debate on such a sensitive and important subject as High Speed. Given, however, that this is a sensitive and very complex subject, it is right to wait for the cost-benefit analysis to arrive officially and only then will we be ready to come to the House and discuss. There is therefore no desire not to deal with the subject, on the contrary we have never hidden that the League is in favour of the High Speed, but rightly we have signed a government contract with our partners, in which we expect a revision of the work in the light of a cost-benefit analysis, so with perfect consistency we behave in this way. When the cost-benefit analysis arrives, we will be ready and will most likely arrive with a majority motion which, of course, will be the daughter of an agreement and compromise on this important issue by the formation of government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u21	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I think that the action that this Government has been doing for a few months, since this majority governs the country, is very clear about investment. For example, I bring the so-called Spanish rule, the one that gave 400 million euros to the small municipalities, which do those works useful for our fabric and for our citizens, those small municipalities that had no money to do anything and that thanks to this Government and this majority today, in a short time, will be able to put in the field of infrastructure interventions very useful for the citizens. Instead, we are very perplexed about the question of great works when they are great useless works, not when they are great useful works and that is what we have emphasized. Then, from the point of view of the majority, as pointed out several times these days, the government contract provides for a very simple thing: do not wait for a useless document from some useless committee, as someone has just said, but wait for a serious committee, which has been done by the Ministry, to understand the cost-benefit analysis of that work and on the basis of that fact bring to this House also the discussion on the realization of the work. Compared to other issues that have been touched on, I believe that what we are trying to do about the simplification decree is another useful action for a country that, if it needs so many simplifications, is because in these years you have complicated it a little too much. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The fact that it becomes a full-bodied document is linked to this, because those who ruled before us obviously have complicated the lives of citizens. We try to simplify it and we will do it by following an ordinary procedure, working in the Commissions and coming to this House next week with the simplification decree. We therefore confirm the vote on the timetable as it emerged from the Conference of Leaders and, of course, we shall vote against the proposed amendments. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u22	Thank you, President. However, the other Commissions are serious, not just the Ministry's.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u25	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, we are intervening on a specific subject, on which we would like to be clear, if we had not already been, in our opinion, abundantly. I am referring to the TAV issue, which has been mentioned by some of my colleagues who have spoken. In the meantime, I would like to remind this House, but also outside, that our President Giorgia Meloni asked the mayor of Turin, in times it would seem unsuspecting, a referendum to make citizens choose what to do with respect to the great works and the TAV. We then deposited in the Commune a request and signatures, unfortunately this did not have any outcome, but strengthens a position like that of Brothers of Italy, which is very clear: we were also last Saturday in the square in Turin, to say that we are in favour of great works, we are in favour of infrastructure, we are in favour of the TAV, we are in favour of an Italy that wants to compete and that is based on development and seeks to create work. This is a direct and obviously also politically divisive theme, if a part of the government says it wants to make a not well-defined referendum and the other part of the government responds that the referendum does not matter but counts the contract and what is written. But this is your problem, brutally: it's your business. On the other hand, we think that this House should speak on this issue, that it should go into the matter and have to debate it, because we are tired of voting with closed eyes on measures that are late and, at least on this point, we would like to anticipate the conclusions of a cost-benefit assessment committee in the belief that it is the policy that needs to assess the costs and benefits. However, the commission will do its job but this Assembly must discuss and discuss and Brothers of Italy will present its motion on the subject in favour of the TAV and in favour of the great works. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u26	As there are no other requests for intervention, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u29	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, the choice not to schedule the motion by which the Democratic Party asks the Government for clear words about the fate of the project for the realization of the High Speed Turin-Lyon is even more eloquent than a vote. It tells us that the opposition to the work is a position that the League has not rejected or that does not have the strength or courage to discard because they lack the strength and courage to free themselves from the contradictions with which it pays daily its role as Government. The evil pact with the 5 Star ally is worth more than the general interest, so much so that one chooses not to choose and to mortify the thousands of people who in an authentically referendary motion, explicit and unequivocal for two times in a few months have come to the square in Turin to invoke a decision. There was also the League in that square, there was also the League. A square betrayed in just three days in the name of a power that proves cynical to the point of silence the pronunciation of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let it be clear: forcing the Senate to silence with procedural cunning is not only smoke in the eyes of those who went to the square, but it is putting the gag on democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] My colleague Mr Patuanelli, I address you, there is a contradiction between you and Minister Toninelli: while Minister Toninelli asks us to wait a few more weeks for the government to make a judgment on the cost-benefit analysis, you, in contradiction with what he said today, what do you say to the newspapers? A yes to Turin-Lion would put us in trouble because the base of your Movimento would not understand. There would be an internal sealing problem (...). I do not think there are any reasons for this in the cost-benefit analysis. So you have come to a conclusion: you have arrived and Minister Toninelli needs a few more weeks to get there. We all know in Italy that Deputy Minister Salvini is the important reference and shareholder of this Government, but he cannot be opposed to himself and his Executive: he is not the weak link, but the reference shareholder. We could have taken advantage of this in this House to explain to the Italians that the Torino-Lion High Speed does not cost 20 billion. You have an economic minister who can explain to you that it is a lie to tell the Italians that we are spending 20 billion on Turin-Lyon: that is not the case. And a cost-benefit analysis, as well as the industrial plan of a company, is done before the start of a work. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Why didn't you do it? Mr Laus (PD). We do not stop at the heart of the work to make it evaluated by technicians: this is a political prerogative and of this House; it is your prerogative, wake up! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u32	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will naturally vote in favour of the proposal made by its President, Senator Bernini, to schedule in the short term the motions on the high-speed railway line, known as the TAV. The point is that we see here that the Government of the forces of anti-politics - one in particular, of course, that of anti-politics has made its own flag - applies hyperpoliticization to any subject: regardless of positions, we must postpone the decision to avoid political imbalances in the majority. We are at the Cencelli of opinions and decisions: we divide a little this and a little 'that and how much we can not divide is postponed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And then we will get to a vote in this House with the things we have already done, perhaps with confidence, and without any chance of voting, as we have seen before. Even in this opposition from the majority and the government to discuss the motion that we propose - not alone, which we are happy about - we see the confirmation that the cost-benefit committee serves to give a political benefit: it certainly has a cost for the Italians, because it means losing months of competitiveness and effective work (there are people who used to work and who do not work today because the yards have been stopped), but the benefits are only political in nature for the majority, which thus gets out of the embarrassment to say yes or no to something that, however you see it, is extremely important for Italy. So much so that those who took sides on one side or on the other - but I would say above all those who took sides on the other - considered it so important that they made demonstrations that, in some cases, they had a peaceful course, but that, in others, they saw systematic attacks on the part of certain groups - never sufficiently isolated - towards the Forces of Order. Then, in the face of this, with the consistency of those who, always, in the past - I stress - and in every circumstance, supported this work, we can reiterate today that we are in favour; we can reiterate that the study of costs and benefits is done before starting a work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You don't start the work, you get to a point where there are already kilometers of tunnel, even definitive, already built, despite some exponent of the government say - lying - the opposite. PIRRO (M5S). Zero kilometers! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MALAN (FI-BP). I remind you that when someone interrupts members of his group, you shout at the assault on democracy. The cost-benefit analysis should be done sooner, not later. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] To write that the project must be discussed in full where there are kilometres of tunnels already built and international treaties ratified by Parliament for many years, it means putting a - fortunately metaphorical - bomb under this work. It is a work that will bring occupation in the construction, but above all - what matters most - after. Without this work our country will be cut off from the great international communications, from the great communication from the West to the East of Europe because of course these traffics will happen, but to the North of the Alps. Waiting for the results of the cost-benefit assessment commission, done at the wrong time, dominated by characters who have been expressing themselves against the high-speed railway line for decades, is frankly a mockery. Therefore, we are voting in favour of the motion and we see with great negativity the vote against that, unfortunately - I fear - will express this House because it will be the Italians, the competitiveness of the country, the employment. These are the real costs of blocking the work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u33	Senator Malan, will allow me to correct it: the vote will not be in favour of the motion but the inclusion of the motion debate on the FTA in the agenda, because we are not discussing whether the motion in question should be adopted or rejected, but whether or not we should change the timetable proposed by the Conference of Leaders. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the debate on motions for resolutions on the FTA. It's not approved. FARAONE (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, the vote is never a disgrace, colleagues! Screaming for shame in a vote on the agenda is shameful. I have to say that. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We're voting on the calendar. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. MALPEZZI (PD). Go to the square again! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of further motions, tabled by Senator Bernini. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u36	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the serious situation facing the Basilicata Region on the health front. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u37	Excuse me, Senator. I call on my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber to do so in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u38	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, we have learned in recent days, from the news and from the front pages of the regional newspapers, a complaint that has left Lucanian citizens dismayed, including me. In fact, there was the appointment of the general manager of the San Carlo hospital, the largest hospital in Lucana, which represents an excellence in Basilicata, in the person of Massimo Barresi, who in the ranking expressed by the committee evaluating the competition turned out to come after the other competitor, Giuseppe Spera, who appeared to have a better curriculum and who, although being more deserving, remained excluded. Instead, he was declared worthy, between the two, the candidate with the lowest rating. We're talking about the appointment of the general manager of a large hospital. Moreover the contract has been signed in a hurry, with a resolution of designation still not published, neither in the official newsletter and not even on the online site of the Region. This emergency is, among other things, unmotivated, because there are the commissioners in office and there are two mistrusts to the conclusion. This haste, therefore, seems only aimed at disarming the applicant at the TAR, so as not to allow the urgent suspension of recruitment procedures. Even more serious is that we are talking about a region in which prosecutors have investigated piloted competitions in health care, the health leaders have been seriously involved, the Governor, as we know, has been arrested, is now banned and has been suspended from office. We also have the long-running Junta, which makes last minute appointments and the function that holds the chair and postpones the elections to May. However, I would like to remind you that the Movimento 5 Stars has appealed to the TAR, which was right the other day, forcing the Regional Council to announce the elections in a short time and to leave the scene as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, it is so clear that these appointments, in this area and during this period of forced extension of the mandate, are merely an expression of the need to fill the organigrams and, indeed, to quickly occupy the last armchairs. It's a shame! Are we then faced with a political appointment that is detrimental to merit? Are we even against the interest of public health? The duty therefore arises to denounce strongly and we will also confront our Minister of Health, Giulia Grillo, who is carrying out many battles in this regard. This is because it is absolutely necessary to put in place every initiative that can shed light on these events and monitor continuously the evolution of Lucanian health management, which is and must remain a health of excellence for the Lucanian community and not only. If I may add, any action taken by public institutions not in the absolute respect of the citizens' right of health and to the detriment of merit and efficiency must always be checked, opposed and frustrated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u41	SILERI (M5S). Mr President, Senators and Senators, yesterday an open letter from a researcher from the University of Rome Tor Vergata, who has been fighting for rights since 2015, was published in the "Facto Quotidiano" newspaper. The Council of State has given him reason and the competition must be redone, because there were no rules. In 2018, the Council of State, in the same university, cancels a competition in general surgery. In 2018, the State Council cancels a competition in administrative law. In 2018 the TAR cancels a contest in urology at the same university; and other appeals are pending. Not only that. The current rector is accused of attempted concussion and incitement to corruption. The former rector, together with the current professor of commercial law, are being investigated for circumvention of incapable, for having persuaded a rich widow to sign acts that have helped to deprive her of control of her extensive heritage. The same ordinary of commercial law is investigated, because, according to the prosecutor, it would have manipulated a competition against a researcher. Other criminal complaints are currently in the hands of prosecutors. A university that has lost about 200 positions in international rankings, as pointed out also by the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening). Let's move on to the university clinic: dozens and dozens of refunds for litigation, almost 5 million euros (the Republic said this a few months ago). Such a low performance that is four times worse than the national average, certainly not because of those who work there. A company with a deficit that hit peaks of 70 million euros and that has reduced to 24 million euros with monstrous cuts. You fall from the stretchers and you die, only last week; but such cases happened also in 2018, 2017 and again. Escape of personnel: ten cardiologists have fled only in the cardiology department. I'm not surprised, since the cardiologist in question is the same as the episode of "Report" and it's the same one that told me that everyone has their own hand. The same polyclinic is the subject of several questions (I will make it brief and finish); these questions, as well as criminal complaints, will have answers, already given by administrative justice. But that's not the point. The point is that the person who raises his head is threatened: it happened to the researcher who wrote the letter and it happened to the undersigned, declared "dead" by the Director-General and the rector, according to whom the undersigned would no longer find a place in any part of Italy. Well, I'm not dead and I'm resurrected here in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's forget the obituary that was sent to me in 2017; let's forget the recent threats that have reached my wife in recent weeks (direct, but always threats are). Well, in this climate of fear and widespread omerta when someone raises his head, there are blackmails, sales, intimidation and marginalization, typical modus operandi of a consorteria that kills without shooting. But the state is close to those who raise their heads and today even more. Only those who are part of a sick system want to defend that system at all costs, practicing and continuing in unclear practices. Let me say it and finish: this is a cancer and cancer is eliminated only by eradicating and curing it. If you do not cure it, cancer kills the whole body, but precisely because of its irregular, invasive and anarchist nature, disrespectful of the surrounding tissues, it kills the body without knowing that it will die together with it. Out of respect for ethics and for all, out of respect for the Italian people, I invite rector, prorector and general manager to resign to give the example to Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u44	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, today, 15 January 2019, it is the 50th anniversary of the earthquake in Belice on 15 January 1968, an earthquake that caused more than 300 deaths, 70,000 displaced persons and still has not seen all the necessary intervention for reconstruction by the State fifty-one years away. This morning the mayor, the municipal council and all the municipal councillors of the Municipality of Santa Margherita del Belice gathered an extraordinary municipal council in Piazza Montecitorio to resign the civil protest of an entire people for the situation in which this important part of Sicily is still located. Imagine that in that municipality there is still a district of 200 families where there is no water, there is no electricity, there are no sewers and there are no roads. I believe that a civil society should be interested in something like this, not forgetting that, compared with the EUR 8 billion that has been spent on the reconstruction of the whole of Belice, the State has collected over the last fifty-one years, with 27 legislative measures, over EUR 26 billion in excise duties. These are incontrovertible data that highlight the quality of the political class, regardless of the political force of belonging. Mine is not an accusation against a particular party, but it is a cry of pain that I think we should all share, so that this important part of the Sicilian population is given the opportunity to live civilly. I think that the warning that the President of the Republic made in his speech at the end of the year, when he reiterated that the Republic takes on reconstruction as an unavoidable commitment to solidarity, must become a common heritage of this House. It is also an invitation to the government and parliamentary forces to give an answer to these Sicilian brothers as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u45	Thank you, Senator Stancanelli, for raising a subject that I believe is very close to the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u48	SACCONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I am pleased that the Undersecretary is here. This morning, as Mr Stancanelli said well, we took part in a resounding initiative; an entire municipal administration, from the center-right to the center-left, majority and opposition, went before Montecitorio to launch a scandalous alarm cry: after fifty-one years there are still 200 families that do not have the water, that is brought to them with the barrels, do not have the lighting and even there are 100 families that still have to perceive the money for the reconstruction of their homes. These gentlemen, our fellow citizens, were expecting the Government to change - not only by the Government and the majority, but by the entire Parliament - at last the word 'end' to their discomfort in the last budget law. Here there are so many elected majority members of that territory; I regret the fact that there has been no provision at least to denounce this affair. Today the entire municipal council of Santa Margherita, together with its mayor Valenti and the president of the municipal council Ciaccio, was before Parliament to denounce this deficiency. Mr President, as the previous speaker rightly said, we pay a lot of taxes on petrol. The government of Aldo Moro, in the 1970s, introduced ten lire on the cost of a liter of gasoline. Well, where is all this money going? To date, only 9 billion euros have been spent throughout the valley of Santa Margherita, while the State has taken over 26 billion. Where is all this money going? That is the question that we must ask ourselves. We must not deceive public opinion by keeping these excise duties, because they are frankly destitute of every foundation if they do not go for that purpose. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u51	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking today in this House to signal to the Senate a serious situation which has been going on for decades in my city, Genoa. Within the municipal urban fabric there are as many as 12 industrial plants of category RIR (at risk of major accident). This number makes Genoa the second largest city in the country due to the number of dangerous industrial activities. In particular, four of these activities are petrochemical industries, located in the Ponente Genovese, within the district of Moltedo, where about 5,000 people live; within 5 km of them, there is a population of more than 100,000 inhabitants. These plants handle chemicals and carcinogens. In recent decades, many people have been exposed and reported by citizens and committees, in order to denounce the environmental problems caused by air pollution or soil pollution. After a series of accidents, at the end of the 1980s a Memorandum of Understanding was reached which should have led to the cessation or relocation of some of these installations by 1991. The following year, in 1992, the Region approved a territorial plan with the same objectives. Identical objectives were those of the Regional Technical Committee during the 2015 session. Today, in 2019, and in the last thirty years, local politics has derogated from and disregarded the same rules that had been laid down. Even the new mayor, Marco Bucci, wishing, as he said, to detach himself from a previous political modus operandi, stated a few months ago that he would have, within a short time, made a decision on these plants and that, consequently, would resolve the age-old situation. Personally, I hope that, after all these years, we can finally take into account the needs of the citizens, who have been fighting for their environment and their territory for years. I am sure that we must arrive, in the time that separates us from a radical solution of these problems, at a widespread campaign of environmental monitoring, which up to now has not been carried out sufficiently, indeed, has been absolutely partial and not continuous over time. The aim must be to collect, in a transparent and effective manner, samples and data concerning the concentration of pollutants in the territory concerned. From Rome we will certainly be careful and we will do everything to ensure that the local authorities guarantee the right to the health of my fellow citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u52	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "San Giovanni Bosco" in Portico di Caserta, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our works. They are also dressed in a national blue, well-tamed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u55	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I believe that these days we have all been happy with the capture of Communist terrorist Cesare Battisti. But if this has happened, I believe that it is very much due to the change of government in Brazil and to the elections of the new President Bolsonaro. I recall that the previous President, as the last act of his mandate, had signed for the exact opposite: to keep the terrorist firmly and above all free. Cesare Battisti, I would like to say clearly, is not only a communist terrorist, but a multi-murderer who, as established without if and without but by Italian courts, was sentenced to life imprisonment. I say this because unfortunately, with great regret, it is also said in these hours that someone is questioning and questioning his conviction. Cesare Battisti has been condemned and I would not like my ears to hear certain things from those who have even always said in this House and outside this House that sentences cannot be commented upon. Cesare Battisti has been sentenced to life imprisonment and therefore, thank God, he will not even be able to have penalty discounts. I would also like to say that I expect certain intellectuals or pseudointellectuals - from Vauro to Saviano - to apologize to the relatives of the victims, because, ladies and gentlemen, for them there is never an end to pain. Then, since in this nation many intellectuals have worked in appeals and collections of signatures that are not done for more serious and more important things, like Brothers of Italy today we await their apologies. I am not talking about international leaders, because someone is no longer there - from Mitterrand to Lula - but I look at our home and to whom our apologies must ask. It is not that Brothers of Italy today rejoices because we feed on revenge; we today rejoice for a much more important reason, namely that Cesare Battisti was handed over to the Italian authorities, demonstrating that there is a rule of law and above all - this is our hope - that there is a certainty of punishment. Of course, we've won a battle, but war isn't won yet. Then we hope for two things. The hope, first of all, is that humanitarian protection, which I have to say, is often given to these communist terrorists has seen the end and there is nothing like it anymore. Secondly, the war will be won when the other communist terrorists still fugitive in the world are arrested. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u58	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to anticipate the presentation of a question by my Group in relation to the images that appeared on some newspapers and televisions, which showed Mr Bonafede, Minister of Justice, wearing the uniform of the prison police force, an attitude already repeated several times by the Interior Minister Salvini in the uniform of the State Police and the Fire Department, in clear violation of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 737 of 1981. There is no doubt, in fact, that the Minister is wearing unfairly and in public distinctive signs of a body and a profession without having a title. The Minister is not allowed to wear the uniform of the prison police force, of which he is not a member. The Minister has political responsibilities, directives and government responsibilities, but this does not allow him to be a profession, nor does he allow him to wear symbols and endowments. The Minister violates the dignity of the institutions by wearing friezes that do not compete with them. I repeat, the Minister is not a member of the prison police force and his conduct, in addition to violating Article 498 of the penal code, risks trivializing the uniform as if it were a costume. The uniform is much more: it is belonging; it is service to the State and to the citizens; it is responsibility for functions; it is self-denial in the performance of daily tasks. There are concrete and less propagandistic ways of demonstrating closeness to men and women in prison police, for example by working to improve the working conditions, the functioning of penitentiary institutions, increasing the units in service, also adjusting some aspects of the reorganization and realignment that we had started in the last parliamentary term. Take care of the serious shortage of supplies of clothing, schedules and conditions of service, all too often characterized by violence and aggression within institutions, stress conditions that often lead to suicide or suicide attempts of members of the Body. The Minister is responsible for the conditions for the re-education of the population and for the social reintegration of the condemned. Mr President, security is a good thing, it is a primary right that cannot be exploited. We are not in a video game, we are men and women of the institutions: sobriety, respect and authority cannot be sold to consent, nor to be enslaved to it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u59	Senator, it must be said that this controversy about uniforms is circular. [[Comments of the PD Group]] I would like to make this comment - and you will forgive me - because it also concerned the Ministers of Defence, your party and also mine, and also myself. I consider what you said important, that's why I said it. BITI (PD). President, no comment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Why not? Even the President can comment at the end of the sitting. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u62	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group to express all our discomfort and disappointment at the organization of a celebration exhibition for the hundred years since the birth of the worst politician who has seen these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The exhibition to celebrate the hundred years since Andreotti's birth is out of place. It is also a false photographic exhibition, because it represents an image that is not true, it is not the one sanctioned by the Court of Cassation [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are many photos missing in that gallery, Mr President, and we must remember them. First we must remember those of Andreotti's associates: missing the photo of Salvo Lima, cousins Nino and Ignazio Salvo, but above all the photos of the victims of the mob. Piersanti Mattarella's photo is missing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and not by chance, because that is the most serious fact that Andreotti has been accused, recognized and proven in courtrooms. I am referring to the fact that I came to Sicily to discuss with the Mafia leaders the worst and most serious crime that ours was preparing to do. Andreotti argued with the dome of the crime Mattarella before this happened and then returned to Sicily, after the crime, to discuss it again and rebuke them, because they had not done as he said. We distance ourselves from this story. We don't find anything celebratory. It is an offense to our country, it is an offense to the memory of our dead and also to the President of the Republic. Let's close this exhibition now! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u65	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to say in this House that for us the arrest of Cesare Battisti closes a wound for all Italians, for our Republic and for our institutions. We join the words spoken by President Mattarella of satisfaction for the arrest and for the punishment, inflicted by Italian justice, that Cesare Battisti will serve. As President Emeritus Napolitano recalled, in the past years all governments have made the maximum effort to achieve this result. We too want to thank the Forces of Order, in particular the police and their boss, for this so important result. Mr President, in an Italy that never, especially at a time like this, can undergo the mystification of history, we know that terrorism of any kind has been defeated because the democratic forces and, above all, the Italian communists, have opposed it in a very harsh way. I also feel like saying these things because I feel that I am proud of history, political culture, democratic effort and the mobilisation of citizens, to whom we must always be grateful in this House. President, I think of those who appeal and approach the terrorist Baptists in a certain way and draw an adjective to his name: when terrorism is involved, whatever connotation may be wrong. Terrorism is always criminal. We defeated him because we considered him without any ambiguity. When the Communist word is approached to the name of Caesar Battisti, perhaps a favor is done to Caesar Battisti, but certainly it is wronged to millions of Italian communists who have fought terrorism hard in Italy. It is wrong to many of the victims' relatives, to the memory and commitment of the communist worker Guido Rossa, killed by terrorists in our country. I would like to conclude by recalling and joining in all these years the example given by the family members of the victims of terrorism and by the family members affected by the crimes of Caesar Battisti; that example and that dignity which, in my opinion, have nothing to do with the media circus that has been built in the past hours, whose sobriety, whose call to the rule of law, however, has nothing to do with those who try to exploit the story for a few votes; that rule of law which is the example to which all of us must call to give the strongest lesson to those who, like Caesar Battisti, that State, our institutions and our people wanted to sully. We don't have to let that happen anymore. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u68	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I would not have asked for the floor if Senator Giarrusso had not made statements that are not reflected in judicial proceedings. When it comes to feedback, we are not talking about statements and motivations, but about convictions. However, I do not want to talk about this, but about the fact that Senator Giarrusso was able to freely express his opinion, as I can do, thanks to the existence of Giulio Andreotti who, together with De Gasperi, in 1948, guaranteed the country to be able to live freely. I am also referring to terrorism. You will not want you, Senator Giarrusso, not to recognize what Andreotti did with Pecchioli, with Bachelet, in the fight against terrorism during the years in which I lived directly that experience. They are historical facts and men have guaranteed this country to be in the Western world, to have the guarantees of freedom and to place it also as a reference of the countries of the Middle East. I do not want to forget what foreign policy has put Italy at the heart of Europe: this is thanks to the foreign policy of Andreotti and Moro. These are things that each of you and each of us knows, and then get to the pettyness of forgetting all this to arrive at a political action of small cabotage to say "we don't remember"... The memory of our history must still be respected. [[Senator Fantetti's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-79.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 17 January, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.49 p.m.
