ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 27 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u3	I communicate that on 29 June 2019 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities (OJ No 59 of 28 June 2019), introducing urgent measures in the field of staff of the symphonic lyric foundations, supporting the cinema and audiovisual sector and financing the activities of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and for the conduct of the UEFA Euro 2020 event (1374).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u4	The next item is the President's statement on the composition of the Senate. As announced to the House on 25 June last, Senators Bonfrisco and Stancanelli, elected MEPs, told the Presidency to opt for this post. This option will result in the termination of the mandate of senators. Since these are cases of incompatibility within the meaning of Article 5-a of Law No 18 of 24 January 1979, the Assembly takes note of the options expressed and the consequent termination of the term of office of senators, starting today, in conjunction with the first sitting of the European Parliament. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene for the identification of successor Senators. I therefore suspend the sitting pending the Council's communications on elections and parliamentary immunity. (The sitting was suspended at 4.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.50 p.m.) I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of vacant seats in the Lazio Region and the Sicily Region following the resignation of Senators Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco and Raffaele Stancanelli, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidates who immediately follow the last of the elected in the progressive order of the lists to which the aforementioned Senators belonged are respectively Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu and Giovanna Petrenga. I acknowledge the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities of this communication and proclaim Senator Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu and Giovanna Petrenga. I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamations. If they are present, I welcome our new senators. [[Applause.]] The Presidency and the whole House obviously wish them a good job.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u5	I announce that the Senate will return to meet tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. with the agenda: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of a bill for the conversion of decree-laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u8	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, the environment is certainly an important star of the five that characterize the DNA of our Movement: its safeguard necessarily also implies the protection of all of us Italians, our health and our well-being. There is no mediation, there is no interpretation, there is no meeting point, when at risk is the place where we live. If then this risk is generated by purely economic speculation, carried out by private companies, then our answer can only be one: the most convinced and explicit denial. The risk to the territory of Emilia Romagna is due to the gas pressure in natural cavities required for the storage of Minerbio and San Potito and Cotignola. In particular, in this second storage site, the Ministry of the Environment, at the hands of the Director-General for Environmental Assessments, Giorgio Lo Presti, has unconsideredly authorized - I repeat: reckless - a two-year experiment of overtaking without even an assessment of preventive environmental impact. I remember that the territory of my Region is at great seismic risk and that these practices can trigger future earthquakes. The two stores, in particular, are located exactly near seismic faults. We have already come across the territory of Emilia in great useless works, such as Bretella Campogalliano-Sassuolo, that we have not managed to stop because the iter had already been concluded by Minister Delrio, but the case of the requests for surcharge is completely different and still to the authorization phase. There are 60 colleagues in this House who have signed Question 3-00800 to Minister Costa, to explain once and for all his position on the surcharge and to stop the authorization of his Director-General. We have been waiting for this answer for two months. It is time for the Ministry of the Environment to shoulder its responsibilities. His commitment to the clean sea and his opposition to drilling are public and well-known; now he continues his work, also opposing all the requests for surcharges pending on the Italian territory. Continuing to tergiverse will not help either the Ministry, nor the citizens, who live constantly with this sword of Damocles on their heads or, better, under their feet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u11	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask two parliamentary questions. The first is of September 26, 2018, concerns the pm Agostino Cordova, who on October 16, 1992 began the criminal proceedings for the crimes provided for by article 416 of the penal code and by the Anselmi law against deviant Freemasonry, on the basis of statements on the relations between mafia and Freemasonry of 16 repentant. Palmi's proxy dealt with it for a year, until October 5, 1993, when the PM was transferred to Naples; the investigations were transmitted to Rome on June 8, 1994 and filed in July 2000, at the request of the PMs in December 1997. Both the pm and the gip of Rome wondered why the process had been transmitted to them, despite the absence of new elements, following the filing of the gip Augusta Iannini. On April 13, 2017, "The Doubt" published an article ("After 25 years the Cordova theorem" collapses), in which, with reference to the investigations on deviant Freemasonry, it accused the pm of having put the Masons to the sedan, making a "hunt for witches" and saying that the Masons had even been persecuted as mobsters. On the deviant Freemasonry, defined by Cordova as the connective tissue for the management of power, no concrete initiative would so far have been adopted, in the general silence of the institutions, not even in defense of that private magistrate who is still suffering, at the age of 82, unjustified attacks, not as a private citizen, but as an official public, just because he dared to exercise his duties dutyfully: that magistrate was expelled from the Public Prosecutor of Naples. In December 1999, the CSM acknowledged that it had brought the Naples Public Prosecutor to an organisational level that had never been achieved before. He was transferred to the Court of Cassation and assigned to the section that mainly dealt with sexual crimes, only subsequently even drugs. The latest anti-Mafia report on Freemasonry found that 193 members would be involved in criminal investigations, with 350 ongoing criminal measures, some of which ended with sentences for Mafia crimes. Even recent judicial reports, immediately silenced by the media, have established contiguity between Freemasonry and crime. The second question concerns Istat and the judgment No 302 of the Court of Auditors of 2018, which sentenced former President Biggeri and others for a total of 210,364 euros, for breach of the obligation to provide statistical information. The possible inertia of the Istat to request without delay from the sentenced persons the payment of the sums indicated in the judgment could generate further erarial damage. I would like to thank you, Mr President, if you would like to call for the answers, in accordance with the separation of powers between the Government, which my Group supports, and the autonomy of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u14	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am here to recall a company, Jabil, which has been operating for years in the so-called Working Land, namely the Province of Caserta, particularly in Marcianise. I speak for myself at the moment, but my colleague Mr Di Micco, Mr Santillo and Mrs Moronese are here, who are also very concerned about this situation. A situation that already comes to us from the last parliamentary term, ragazzonata and managed badly. In June 2018 we have already paid attention to Mise the situation of Jabil, who said a few days ago that he wanted to fire 350 employees. Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that we are already working to ensure that the company knows in a robust and clear way that this Parliament and these Members of Parliament, who have already spoken with the Ministry, have no intention of allowing it to fire employees in a very simple way. We have been informed and attested that the Ministry has already stigmatized the program and the industrial plan that the company had delivered a few weeks ago. We're already on it. We will not allow these workers to be dismissed. Jabil is something important for Campania. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u17	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so much has been said about the Sea Watch these days, just as rivers of words have been spent on a possible infringement of Italy by the European Union, but there has not been enough talk of the horrible story that has come to light in my beautiful Emilia, prosperous and rich territory, where everyone should and could live well and where instead a business disguised as welfare has been discovered, to the detriment of children and families. The lower Reggiana, the Val d'Enza, the place where the investigation Angels and Demons brought out the horror developed by certified welfare professionals, assisted by an ONLUS based in Moncalieri: children taken away from families, from these absolutely distant, without any possibility of contact, to be entrusted, through tests built at the table and brain washes, to people of dubious educational and emotional capacity. It will be the judiciary that will shed further light on the story and on the responsibilities, but a reflection is an obligation, because when it is affected and perverted precisely that system that should protect the weakest and the most defenceless, then it means that the system of ethics and thought has turned upside down, making it seem wrong what is normal and making it appear good and just what instead is only the fruit of selfishness and a will to impose at all costs the satisfaction of one's desires, without any respect and without any limit. At will there is no longer any regard for the lives of others, but when you get to touch the children I think that you have reached the bottom and that something maybe should be put back in the right way and straightened. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and the Senator Testor]] Because, if it is true that the freedom of each of us ends where the freedom of another begins, then, even more so, no one has the right to touch and harm the freedom of a child to grow up in a healthy environment, close to his parents, father and mother. No one has the right to inculcate ideas to support their own way of being. Children come out of this affair badly; their families come out badly, for which I hope a real recovery, but, unfortunately, all those bodies that, contrary to what happened in the lower Reggio Emilia, perform and provide services that are truly adequate to the person. On Thursday in the Joint Commissions 1st and 2nd we will have on the agenda the start of the debate on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on activities related to family communities that receive minors, as requested by our Minister Fontana. In that place I hope not only to investigate and verify, but also to reflect precisely on the ethical and moral need to give back that role that belongs to the natural family; reflections on that ideological system that on the contrary destroys it and that instead supports practices such as the uterus for rent and promotes gender theory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u20	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I continue the discussion carried out by Senator Saponara. What emerges from the investigations and arrests of these days is disturbing and is a clear ideological construct against the natural family. Let us not forget the shame of the Forteto network, with the complicity of social workers, administrators and mayors. Today we see what is happening in Emilia, but we do not make the mistake of thinking that it is a single episode. It's not an isolated case. This whole system is rotten. The judiciary will take its course, but it still shudders to read what was intercepted during the investigation, when a child says: But I don't remember because I can't see them anymore, Mom and Dad. And the psychologist: "But don't you remember that you said that your father didn't want to see him again? I remember this. And the little girl: "I didn't say that... I didn't say that I didn't want to see him." "Yeah, you said you didn't want to see him because you were afraid he'd hurt you (...) and so on, et cetera, et cetera. We learned from the press the profiles of the key characters who were investigated and arrested. I'm talking about Federica Anghinolfi, LGBTQ activist. We read the story of Giulia, a epileptic girl who had been given to two women with the invented accusation that her father had abused her. And one of these two women had a romantic relationship with Federica Anghinolfi. There is talk of real threats with screaming and blasphemy by the two mothers, to make the child confess to the abuses never suffered by the father. That's who hides behind this business system: ideologicalized people who hate the natural family. To force children to tell abuses never suffered, to manipulate their designs to prove falsehood, it is an unprecedented and criminal violence. Carabinieri found set aside in a corner sneakers, plush, Barbie, all the gifts of parents who were never delivered to their children. It could have happened to each of us. We must put the natural family back at the centre and get out of ideologies. We want a state that thinks about supporting the parent in difficulty and not moving him away from the child. We want to introduce the obligation to register all interviews with minors: the child must be in a crystal box. We also want to cancel the abstract possibility of entrusting children to family homes. The question is, where was he supposed to watch over all this? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is why we will continue with the reform of family law. We have tabled a legislative proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, which will be framed on Thursday. We can't afford this anymore. Get your hands off our children! There is nothing more sacred than the relationship between a son, his mom and his dad. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u23	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, when, in August 2016, then in October and then again in January, the hinterland territories of the Apennine areas of Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio were hit by the most devastating earthquake of the last centuries, all of us, especially those of us who live and were born in the crater areas, have clearly had a huge danger: territories already affected by depopulation could have received from the earthquake an exitial blow. But Italy and Europe cannot lose communities of Municipalities that have always been an indispensable part of history, identity, manufacturing capacity, culture of work and our civilization. It is not enough, in fact, to rebuild the civic walls and private houses. It takes a project to build a future, to make families live, to attract new generations and investments. We need services and, among them, the most important and vital, Mr President, is school: because the school speaks in the decades to come; because the school cements a community: because it is the basis of that technological innovation that can build economic districts and create jobs. There is an advanced project, born from the synergy between institutions and associations, to start in the city of Amandola, one of the municipalities symbol of the crater, a new course of professional education with a hotel address, which can serve to revive our agricultural, tourist, food and wine vocation, fundamental to create concrete programs, roots and hopes related to the territories. And yet, Mr President, this project is not being started because, in the face of the winds required, there are sixteen members, including three children with disabilities. The Regional School Office, however, could and should give the derogation, because this possibility is expressly provided for in the event of uncomfortable conditions linked to specific local situations. And what situation does it require more than the earthquake? We therefore ask Mr Bussetti to speak as a matter of urgency in his question 3-00953. It cannot be a dull bureaucratic interpretation that mortifies the will for ransom. The Minister intervenes and does not turn to the other side, because opening a school means building rights, possibilities and future. These are the reasons for our commitment in this House and in society. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-128.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 3, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.12 p.m.
