ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u4	As announced yesterday, I give more details on the intervention of the President of the Council of Ministers on the alleged negotiations between members of the Lega-Salvini Premier party and personalities of Russian nationality, which will be held on 24 July at 16.30, through a briefing, followed by speeches by the Groups for five minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1383. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion, the rapporteur's reply and the examination of the amendments relating to the article of the Decree-Law took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u8	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, with the measure under consideration, the Government has decided to allocate the expected savings compared to the estimated amounts of 100 and income from citizenship to the improvement of public finance balances, for an estimated amount of 1.5 billion euros. This is a good thing for us, because in this way cuts have been avoided in other more sensitive areas, even if it demonstrates the lack of precision in government forecasts. Our Group will abstain on this measure. We do this because it is good that an infringement procedure has been averted for Italy, but beyond that we also believe that a more careful management of public finances is necessary and already for some time before everyone's eyes. We had said this during the examination of the Update Note to the DEF, we reiterated it with the budget law: a stable framework of public finance is an indispensable condition and instead we have pursued the path of two measures that have not brought any benefit from the point of view of growth. I am referring, in particular, to the income of citizenship, conceived as a hybrid measure between aid for the poor and active labour policy. We will see better in the coming months, but from the first partial data it seems to me that it is not able to perform effectively either of the two functions. Even at 100, as was pointed out in the hearing of the Parliamentary Budget Office (UpB) in the Commission, it is difficult to assess the impact from the point of view of public expenditure. This is because there is no collection of a set of data, such as those on the contributory situation or the age of the persons admitted to the measure. So how do you want to observe and assess the impact of the measure when this information is missing? I therefore formally ask the Government to have these essential data taken from the officials in charge for a serious assessment and analysis of the financial impact of the measure of the 100 quota. We heard in the hearing with President Pisauro that these data are missing, that they really serve to estimate the financial impact of this measure. It is just one example, but I think it makes the picture of uncertainty which we are all too often moving towards public finances good. A framework which should be clarified in view of the new measures announced. I believe that the reduction in the tax burden is always a good thing, but that it must take place within a framework of financial sustainability, otherwise today's discount has already changed into tomorrow morning's bill. So let the flat tax come, as long as we do not start a new confrontation with Europe. What we have behind us has not been without consequences from the point of view of the credibility and role that Italy has been able to play in the definition of appointments in the Presidency of the Commission and the European Central Bank. In particular, Italy needs other growth measures. The unblocking of construction sites and the growth decree are not yet sufficient. I am not the one who says that, but the government's growth forecasts linked to the introduction of these two measures. Italy is today a taillight in Europe on economic trends. Of course, there are economic elements, but those are for everyone. What we pay for is the absence of a policy that puts the entrepreneurial system at the centre, which guides it in addressing the challenges of competitiveness, innovation and internationalisation, which addresses the structural problems of the country system. We need less bureaucracy and greater legal certainty, we need to reduce labour costs further. We need a more careful management of industrial crises, starting with the major issues of Alitalia, former Ilva and TAV. But in order to do all this, as I have already said, we must not undermine the ground of public finance, which already pays a great deal of debt and which devotes an important part of its resources to honour the interests on that debt. I therefore repeat our Group's abstention vote on this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u11	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, with this adjustment, which I do not understand why you do not want to call maneuver, since it is a maneuver, we have avoided the infringement procedure. I say immediately that it is a positive fact, as we have already had occasion to emphasize, since the procedure would have caused serious damage to our country. I want to make a little thought: after all, after the experience that you have forced our country to do in the budget law for 2019, a useless arm-arm with the European Commission and then do what - the Commission - had said, it would have been appropriate to avoid the announcements, the threats; but I see that, unfortunately, we do not go in that direction. In any case, correction, adjustment of accounts, maneuvering: in the end, to say something different from what the League Leader said yesterday - but as he rightly said, the data are given - you did what the European Commission asked you to do: no more, no less. From this point of view, let me say that it seems that the elections are not needed. The confusion that exists in relation to the appointment of the President of the European Commission, the clash between Movimento 5 Stars and Lega, the words of the President of the Council today in his letter to the Republic, tell us how this country of ours is, unfortunately, in difficulty in European relations. I would like to invite the Government and the majority in a completely constructive spirit: there is not only the appointment of the Italian European Commissioner; the important thing is to support the need for Italy to play an appropriate role within the Commission. There are all the Directorates-General of the Commission to be appointed, where our country - with the current level of credibility equal to zero - risks the paradox: do you want to challenge the Franco-German axis? I am afraid, and we will see this in the new development of the Directorates-General, that we will face a displacement of Italy in relation to Europe. As we know, the role of technocracies in Europe is crucial to achieving important results, not to mention the interesting plan presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on immigration. How do you plan to carry it forward? On the contrary, I put a proposal to the majority: we are debating the plan presented by Minister Moavero, because it contains interesting and positive elements that finally also propose to the majority to move away from absurd demagogy, and in some of its behaviours even inhumane, as we have seen in recent months on immigration. That said, the fundamental problems remain. After all, in this adjustment it is 1.5 billion between citizenship income and 100 percent. Say now that you have been cautious; all right, we will see caution in the next few days. You were careful, but two o'clock. I am referring to the numbers you gave when you talked about 100 and citizenship income, two measures on which our position was of attention, while stressing the limits: 100 was not the question of the Fornero law; citizenship income, with overlap with work, is not the best way to deal with poverty. If you look at the data provided by the President of INPS in the hearings, you will see that some regions of the Mezzogiorno, where poverty is a very important figure, have very critical and reduced data. Beyond how you want to evaluate this data and beyond propaganda, the figure of 100 and the figure of citizenship income show that those norms have a criticality that it would be interesting to try to address in order to give a more adequate response to the country. Instead, you prefer propaganda. However, I would like to make it clear, also with regard to the rapporteur's closing remarks, that the data on the GDP deficit and return ratio are not given by an expansive maneuver. This is not an expansive phase we are experiencing. I advise you to be careful. Follow what Minister Tria says, who has shown you that perhaps it is more prudent, when he explains that 0.1-0.2 percent, however, is still everything to be guaranteed (and we are talking about substantial stagnation). On the contrary, the economic situation in the coming months, at international level, has a negative sign and, therefore, an expansionary phase is not at all obvious. There is no point in hooking up to the data of this or the quarterly data. The fact of the matter is that this country is basically stagnating. It's an objective fact. But why don't we talk about it? Maybe we could take a few steps forward. Let me be clear on a few points. For example, on the data of the work, I ask the Government that, in addition to the employment data, I would like to have the data of the hours worked. [[Applause from Senators Bellanova and Parente.]] It's a serious problem. The last one I know tells us about 1,250 million hours less worked. This is our country. That is the fact: I am not catastrophist. I value all the positive data, but I do not agree to play the game of the three cards on economic data. Be careful because, at the end of the day, you already have signals. I turn, first of all, to Movimento 5 Stars. You say: the people understand us. Actually, he's understanding more Salvini and his demagogy on immigration, which doesn't solve illegality, but demagogy. It doesn't seem to me that you're quite understood by the people right now. Perhaps asking a few questions might be helpful. Two simple observations, in conclusion. 158 crisis tables. No industrial policy: zero. School emergency. How will the school year open? It will open up in a situation of dramatic criticality in relation to teachers. Health emergency. We've reached the army doctors. The other thing that strikes me is that no one in this House ever talks about the Mezzogiorno. Speaking of data, did you read the data on the Mezzogiorno? Nobody talks about the data from the Mezzogiorno. In this debate, no one has yet used the word 'Midday', whose figures are dramatic: the distance between North and South is growing significantly and you are moving forward with differentiated autonomy. I recommend reading the documents of the DAGL (Department of Legal and Legislative Affairs), of the Court of Auditors and of the UPB, because in all three data tell you that if you go on in this way on the differentiated autonomy you will blow the country system. You need to start discussing the issue seriously again, reasoning about framework law, equalization, law No. 42 of 2009 and rights throughout the country. So you can have a serious debate. Do we have a debate in this House on this issue, since I hear so many colleagues, not just from our side, asking questions and problems? The issue will have a fundamental impact on the state accounts. Are we having a debate in this House? Let's discuss and see if we can make a contribution. In any case, to show that our position is not a preliminary one, we will abstain on the measure and continue our commitment to try to make a contribution to the country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Di Marzio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u14	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, with the bill that is before the Senate today, we are actually freezing EUR 1.5 billion: it is a measure which, if it does not improve our accounts, at least at this moment does not worsen them, given the lack of an infringement procedure for public accounts by the European Union. Therefore, we note with satisfaction that this risk has been overcome, because - as I have already said in my speech yesterday - it would have been a bad figure for what Italy represents in the context of the European Union. This does not, however, mean that the risk that we have avoided reopens the even more pressing knot of our country's sovereignty. The European policies of rigour have led to the longest economic crisis in history and have also cracked our relations with the European Union, although we remain convinced of them and will always remain its founders. What is worse is that they have driven Italians away from Europe and from the dream that we all had of a different Europe. Getting out of this subject is necessary for Italy that lives of work and not of finance. We want a Europe of sovereign peoples and not a constriction of peoples, let alone a constriction of banks. This is an opportunity to reiterate how we expected a greater commitment from this Government to change our relationship with Europe, which cannot count in our pockets and then row against us, literally, when ships flying flags of other European countries force our borders and dock with force and arrogance in our ports. The European Union is not a union of accounts, it is also a union of intents and purposes and I would like it to be a union of Italian ports: on this I note that we are on very distant positions and solutions. This decree-law reserves, so it actually freezes, one and a half billion euros, but for us (and we said so in last year's budget approval, on which we voted against) was and remains insufficient. What Brothers of Italy asked for and expressed on the agenda presented yesterday in the Budget Committee, which I prepared, discussed and accepted as a recommendation by the Government, is that those steps be taken, which have been continually postponed, to enable Italy to grow. I repeat, one and a half billion euros is not enough, it is only a starting point, but it is not enough. We call for shock therapy, a massive investment that can lead to growth. We are talking about demographic growth, first of all, with concrete support for Italian families; a growth that passes through the reduction of the tax burden, so we reiterate it loudly: incremental flat tax. Mr Salvini is not present today, but we heard him at the meeting he had a few days ago with the social partners. We know - he has said it quite clearly - that this is also his priority; He said so recently by relaunching the flat tax. We ask you again: make this incremental flat tax. Yesterday I listened to Mr Zuliani, who spoke after me, and who, like me, welcomed the idea of introducing incremental flat tax. Minister Salvini, as you have found the agreement with your government ally for a measure that is unfair and inconceivable to us as the income of citizenship, do your utmost to reach this measure that families and businesses are asking for loudly and that would, as we have always pointed out, be at zero cost to the state's coffers. In the same way we ask the friends of the League to unlock those infrastructures that remain only on paper and that continue to cut Italy in several parts disconnected from each other. There have been no investments that cost Italy as many missed investments as those who choose to leave, because the connections either do not work or are not enough. These EUR 1.5 billion are a good starting point and we ask you to use them, because we know - the President of the INPS told us the day before yesterday - that, although we are in the presence of a provision so to speak prudential, in fact the savings on 100 and citizenship income will be much higher than the billion and a half of euros, because we will reach approximately EUR 2 billion. Let's start from here, then. We need the political will to make measures that must not have a political color, but the only goal of making Italy a better country, a country from which companies and young people do not run away anymore. Unfortunately, the continuing quarrels we see in this Government show us that we are in the presence of an unnatural coalition, which translates into an immobility that pays the country in full. The friends of the League pay a very high bill to this alliance. The interests of the productive part of the country are sacrificed on the altar of continuity of the relationship with the 5 Stars, which keep under blackmail the Government. We are the Italy that wants to do, the Italy of those who create work, and on the other side there are those who represent an Italy that is afraid and that wants to block everything. On the one hand there is Italy of the no, while we must be Italy of the yes. We must be the country of creativity, not the country of renunciation. We take note, however, of the efforts made by the friends of the League to create the conditions of a restart. Mr President, we shall abstain in this vote, and we cannot do otherwise. If, on the one hand, we welcome the savings, especially as regards the lack of expenditure on citizenship income, we cannot vote in favour of anything which includes this measure which we have opposed with all our might. However, we are not even manifestly opposed to this decree-law that we are about to convert. Our abstention is a sign of an investment in that strong demand that comes from the voters of a government that looks at development; an idea that is winning, as we have seen, in all the regional elections that have followed in the last year; it succeeds in those local ones and foreshadows the future of a different center of right. Unfortunately, we have to note that these balances of finance are set in order that we still do not have enough funds and that we hope to see them transformed into something else, into concrete measures, into the next budgetary manoeuvre. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u17	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are always rooting for Italy: it is part of our identity. When the fate of Italian families and businesses is at stake, let us first look at Italy, even before a trivial electoral calculation. For us this is a cultural facility; it reflects the values and identity of the Democratic Party. It is true when we are in the government and when, temporarily, we must exercise the responsibility of opposition in this Parliament; it is true when we have to open the ports to save men, women and children fleeing from conflicts; it is true when we open and work to restore credibility and reliability to our economic policies, which are indispensable for generating work, growth, development and the future. This is the fundamental reason that leads us, without ambiguity, to support the action of the Italian Government for having avoided the infringement procedure for excessive debt. The procedure, in case it was activated, would have compromised our autonomy, our national sovereignty and would have introduced heavy constraints in the performance of the functions of the Government and Parliament. Mr President, we are faced with an actual paradox which has already led us twice, through wrong sovereignist policies, to a step from having to renounce national sovereignty in the exercise of our functions. It is not a mistake: it is a political choice. I say this very clearly. This majority cannot continue to give the macroeconomic framework the sole responsibilities that lead to low growth in our country. You cannot continue to evade an objective analysis of the failure of your economic policies and their ineffectiveness in combating the low growth phase. [[Applause from the PD Group]] BITI (PD). The government pretends to listen. Mr Castelli, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The government is listening. MANCA (PD). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Sovereignists cannot promote alliances; they are incompatible with the same. It is not with borders, with the use of fear for consent and not even with barbed wire that you can protect yourself from the changes in society, the economy and the management of migratory flows. Your economic policies have produced confusion, uncertainty and have so far isolated Italy from the European and international macroeconomic framework. There is a lack of a clear economic policy, but above all a foreign policy aligned - of which there is a total absence - with the national identity, history and culture of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President Romeo, I quote three issues since in his brilliant speeches he continues to blame the past for an absence of a vision on the part of his majority and the Government on the future of our country. I want to give you three numbers, since they've been called back as a substance element. When we finished our government experience in 2013, the spread was 139 basis points, growth at 1.5% and the labour market was one million more jobs over the three years. This is the inheritance that has been given to you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This legacy, unfortunately, in this year of government has been overwhelmed by your uncertainties, by the absence of an economic policy consistent with the needs of the economy, society, workers and entrepreneurs. You have generated confusion because, since the Update Note to the DEF forward, you had predicted a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 2.4%, and then corrected it to 2.04 - a scam and exclusively demagogic operation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] -along with an overdimension of growth forecasts. Even when all economic systems and independent authorities called you to caution, you planned a 1.5% increase when the country was already approaching the recession. These are your responsibilities for the failure of the economic policies that you handed over to Parliament this year. Enough with the rhetoric of the opposition to the past, because you have no future and do not have a fundamental idea to build economic development consistent with the needs of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, if we think about it, even the most important measures, which are the result of the government agreement you have signed, have been introduced overestimating their effects, even with promotional campaigns, all aimed at propaganda even before the effectiveness of structural measures. You have used the deficit to accompany structural measures on poverty, active policies and pensions, which inevitably require structural resources. Instead, you used the deficit to finance these initiatives, and then realize today that the pulling of these measures allows you to save and that many of those promises, particularly in the field of active policies, are cancelled, at least for 2019, because in fact you give up using the savings, which were geared to employment centres, to foster new active policies. In the face of the change in society and the economy, active policies and lifelong learning are the key to guaranteeing new rights for Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I mean, use the savings to realign the accounts. Well, this is a maneuver - as has been remembered by those who preceded me and by the interventions carried out in yesterday's session by Senators Stefano and Misiani - that has an effect and leaves costs on the Italians. We will see this better in the 2020 report and its settlement. The 2019 statement will have to take into account and will inevitably take into account the fact that, thanks to your economic policies, the spread was out of control until a few weeks ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This will weigh on public accounts and will weigh on work and businesses. You no longer use the rhetoric of the responsibilities of the past, because these are the concrete effects of the failure of your economic policies, your uncertainties, the incompatibility within the government forces and the lack of a single design for the economic development of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President Romeo, we ask for President Conte's presence in the Chamber - and we would have waited with interest also the report of the minister and vice-premier Salvini - not because we have ideas for the future of the country but, in particular, to clarify the relations between Italy and Russia. It is not up to us to determine whether there is illegality and irresponsibility: it is up to a court of law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, it is Parliament's right to know the intentions and what is behind them, because the national sovereignty and security of our country are at stake, as regards those who always call for security, as a fundamental element in guaranteeing greater rights of citizenship. This uncertainty of yours, your reluctance, your desire to deny Parliament transparency on a fundamental issue, which is first and foremost foreign policy, is a serious mistake, a humiliation that Parliament cannot suffer. We must therefore say thanks to our initiative, precisely because we believe that there is no possible economic policy without an adequate and transparent foreign policy; because we love the country and we believe that the economy inevitably needs a vision of the future, which is given precisely by foreign policy. Mr President, we therefore believe that a fair initiative has been taken by the Democratic Party and our President and, on Wednesday, in this House, we can finally see Parliament's right to transparency, information and legality guaranteed, which we must always safeguard, in order to consolidate the important democratic and development factor of this House. That is why - and I conclude - we consider the measure relating to balances to be a maneuver. We said before that we appreciated the U-turn that public finance balances required in order to bring Italy back to Europe. Our abstention vote - and this is the explanation of vote I want to make - certainly takes account of this important reverse action, which corrects the errors and limitations of your economic policies. It is for this reason, Mr President, that, by declaring the Democratic Party's abstention vote, I also think it is necessary to stress that the reversal that has been decided is directly proportional to the failure, errors and limits of an uncertain year of economic policies of this majority. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u20	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is a very important measure, because it shows that the government's expansion and investment policies can succeed with a balance of public finances. This is the point of arrival of a year of activity of the Count Government, of our Government, which has achieved this objective, has demonstrated this truth. [[Brusio.]] It's been said by the opposition...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u21	Excuse me, Senator. I have to call the Democratic Party Group, because you can't hear Senator Tosato's intervention. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u22	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. I said that the oppositions, in particular the Democratic Party, have defined the decree-law under consideration as a surrender by the Government towards the European Commission. Let's send this accusation back to the sender: it's exactly the opposite. It has also been said that the arm wrestling with Europe has produced no results. We also refer this accusation back to the sender and prove it by the facts. We, in fact, had made commitments with the citizens and kept them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Share 100 has been approved. New resources have been given to local authorities to invest and provide services to citizens. The preferential tax arrangements for VAT consignments have been introduced, and this is only a start. Businesses have been given tax breaks. It was approved the citizenship income that was in the government contract and was a strong point of the Movimento 5 Stars, with balance, sanctioning those who will improperly use this provision and encouraging employment centers to create employment. These were the commitments we made with the citizens and we kept them. We did not give up on the European Commission, which said that these measures were economically unsustainable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The former governments have surrendered to the European Commission; those governments that have approved the infamous Fornero law; that have transformed this country into an immense refugee camp. Those are the governments that betrayed Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Those are the governments that have surrendered to the directives and letters of the European Commission; certainly not ours. Our Government has achieved important objectives and, with the provision of one and a half billion euros contained in the measure under consideration, it has shown that it can also be done with balance, reasonableness and with the accounts in order. Thanks to this measure we have reported - and we will report with the adjustment - the deficit ratio - GDP to 2.04, as approved by Parliament in the budget law. We have given tranquillity to financial markets and investors, reporting the spread to sustainable levels. We have allowed Italy to respect the European parameters; of course, they are wrong and must have changed, but they exist and we unfortunately have to deal with them. And we have achieved an even more important goal, to show that the government's expansionary economic policy has its own balance and can succeed with balance. This measure does give confidence and creates confidence. It shows in essence that we were right: expansive maneuvers and budgetary rigour can be together, coexist and succeed. Then it was said, on the part of the opposition, that the government's predictions were wrong: this too - allow me - is nonsense. We are talking about the forecasts of two new measures (quota 100 and citizenship income) on which it was clear that the sums to be invested could be estimated, but there was no certainty that those amounts would be adequate. Well, they have been. We've achieved the goal of changing the Fornero law. We have achieved the objective of ensuring social justice for families in difficulty. This is what we were interested in: the problem and the goal were not to spend 2, 4 or 10 billion. The saving of 1.5 billion is welcome: the important thing is to have responded to those needs. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] So, the forecasts have been met. We've achieved those goals. There are other predictions that have not been met: your predictions, which spoke of infringement measures in December and July, and these predictions have not been guessed, have not been right on the part of our opponents. Other forecasts have also been wrong, according to which, with the expenditure measures in question, we would not have reached the balance of the budget and would have sent the accounts and the country to ruin. These were your predictions and even these did not occur in the reality of the facts. This is also an accusation that we send back to the sender. Then there are other measures that we have achieved, such as, for example, that we have been consistent; consistent in the battle we waged in the electoral campaign during the political and European elections, that we are an alternative political movement to the system of power that exists in Europe. Unfortunately, this is a soulless Europe, which bases its existence only on numbers and parameters; in such a Europe we do not recognize ourselves. And we were not complicit in the election of the new government representative, who was voted by all other political forces. This is also consistent; we have demonstrated it with the facts, not with words in the election campaign. And we proudly claim this consistency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We're going on this road, because we think it's the right one. We finally have a courageous government that has not given up social justice. I refer - if you will allow - also to the frauds of the banks, which the Democratic Party had abandoned and which we are trying to protect with real resources, with that billion and a half allocated that did not exist in the manoeuvres of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This is a government that does social justice, an issue so dear to the left of the past, but today it has completely abandoned it. It has abandoned those who were to be defended; it has abandoned families and citizens in economic difficulties and workers of companies that are likely to close. Today the paladins of the left are the commanders of the ships that collaborate with the hullists and spur the boats of the Guard of finance. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti]] The paladins of the left are the great finance and the European bureaucrats. To each one his own choices, to each one his own priorities: for us it is the Italians. Italy - we are aware of this - is going through a difficult and complicated period. The challenge is certainly complex, but we have the conviction that we are on the right path, in the interests of this country, our communities, families, businesses and our citizens. For these reasons, Mr President, we are voting in favour of this decree-law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u25	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, we are also here today discussing yet again the government's public finance measure, which is necessary in order to be able to cope with the damage caused by previous economic decisions which this Commission and this majority have always taken; decisions on which we in Forza Italia have always expressed our concerns. Both yesterday and just a few minutes ago I once again heard authoritative representatives of this political majority say that this measure represents a challenge won with Europe. If we are in this House today to launch a corrective budgetary manoeuvre, it is because you have been wandered by Europe; you have been grounded behind the blackboard and have been asked for a correction of the accounts and, therefore, you have rushed with the hat in hand in Europe to launch a corrective manoeuvre. Let it be clear that the measure we are considering is useful and goes in the direction we asked for even a long time ago, because it finally makes the public accounts of our country definitely more sustainable. However, we absolutely do not agree with the economic policies launched by this Government, so much so that today we return to this House because we are subject to a corrective imposition on the budgetary maneuver launched six months ago. Let us then come to the data and see if the commitments made to the Italians have been maintained. The very name of the measure as a saving decree tells us that something is not right: it means that the accounts were certainly not in place and, therefore, today we vary a maneuver that serves to save them, but from what? Let's see then what really contains the decree saving accounts, which brings changes to Decree-Law No. 4 of 2019 and the financial maneuver aimed at achieving the improvement of public finance balances through savings that are still not quantified today. The government has spoken of about 1.5 billion, but we do not know it yet: these are still random figures and it has also been written by the Budget Service that today absolutely cannot be decided. We will see on September 15, when the INPS will actually certify and communicate the savings, as they are defined. For the time being we have a random figure and then we really try to figure out what happens with these measures, whether it's a billion and a half of savings or it's 3 billion. We must remind this Parliament and all of us that the income of citizenship and the 100 quota have been and are the government's flagship measures. You have done campaigns of communication and propaganda giving absolutely amazing numbers, saying that those measures would cause an economic shock for the country; that consumption would increase and GDP would grow. None of this has happened and you have even been moved to say that with these measures you would have abolished poverty: a phrase that will certainly remain in Italian comedy, more than in the institutional history of our country [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact it happened that the Italians rejected these measures to the sender and we see it with certain data, because today the Italians are fed up with the assistantism end in itself. Italians today ask us for serious work, what is created through aid to companies. Italians believe in tax relief, a more sustainable taxation for families and companies. With the measure under consideration you now certified in black and white the failure of your measures. This is the truth of the decree-law that we are going to launch today. And he told us a few days ago, when he came to the Budget Committee, Professor Tridico, President of the INPS, who brought in unmistakable data that we will now examine. For example, as regards the 100 quota, according to the monitoring that the INPS is conducting, we have about 154,000 applications, of which only 74,000 were accepted, i.e. 50 percent. The government's forecasts spoke of about 307,000 questions. If everything goes well by the end of the year and all the applications submitted are accepted, then we will have a maximum of 160,000-170,000 applications accepted, i.e. 50% less than your forecasts. As for the income of citizenship, then, even better: on 31 May last there are about 1,372 million applications, of which 737,000 approved, with about 2 million people involved, which revolve around the income citizenship, for an average amount of income paid of about 490 euros monthly. Let's all remember what government figures have been predicting about citizenship income: you said you printed 6 million cards for citizenship income and, therefore, at the end of today 70% less than expected. If these are the results of your flag measures today, you have failed: this is the fact that we cannot accept today. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Floridia (M5S). Good thing you're saying that! DAMIANI (FI-BP). It is clear that expenditure is reduced with these small numbers, but it is equally clear that we have not had any fiscal shocks to date, as you predicted. These measures represent only a small drop in a much larger ocean. The absolute flop today is testified or better certified not already by a political force of opposition like Forza Italia, but by the same INPS with the data that two days ago Professor Tridico indicated us. We will therefore continue to monitor the situation and see how far we can go. We then ask ourselves what the Government thinks of doing when Italians today reject these measures to the sender, although they had already been engaged in the previous budget maneuver; both with the income of citizenship, and with the savings deriving from the so-called 100 quota, there was a commitment to facilitate recruitment and, above all, with respect to policies for families. Do you remember the press conferences of Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, where he talked about support for family, children, diapers? All this will not be there, because today you, with your hat in your hand, put those savings in a freezer and you are taking them to Europe. Let us return to the beginning of last December's financial manoeuvre, when today with those savings we could finally bring the debt-to-GDP ratio back to 2%, which was the measure of the one initially discussed (1.9% or 2%, precisely). In the meantime, however, we have unnecessarily wasted time; the Italians have burned their savings and capitalizations. What we are actually interested in today after this financial manoeuvre - coupled with budgetary adjustment - will bring about 7.6 billion savings, which will then reduce public debt - is that we will soon have to face a very important financial manoeuvre in the autumn. But if today we recover these sums, with what money will we make the financial maneuver in the autumn and, above all, with what harassment against the Italians? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Unfortunately, even if at this moment the experts continue to suggest that we must have caution, because it is certainly not a favorable moment for Italy and the data lead us not to make yet the expansive maneuvers that we would like, the economic data do not modify with the wishes of the Government and certainly do not circumvent the obstacles minimizing and calling them "numericetti" without meaning. The numbers are these and certify them - as we said - are not political opposition forces, but certainly important bodies. As a political group of Forza Italia today we will abstain, not so much because we do not share the measure, but because, as always, we share everything that goes in the direction of common sense, to protect the public interest of citizens, who finally have the right to look to the future in a more solid way, with the accounts in order and, above all, with a more reliable country at international level. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u28	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, before speaking in an explanation of vote, I would like to thank the offices of the Budget Commission, the Studies Service, the Ministries and the whole of Parliament, which have allowed us to respect the road map at this particularly sensitive time. I would also like to thank the political forces, which, however, have shown a great deal of responsibility in the Commission: I really thank you. Decree-Law No 61 of 2 July 2019, on which the Assembly is preparing to vote, is a very slim and simple act and, at the same time, very effective, that allows us to achieve those public finance objectives that we had set ourselves with the budget law: all without disrupting the public accounts, nor the sums necessary for social expenses, which are guaranteed anyway. This is a temporary provision. Temporary provisions are being made on certain items of expenditure, pending the crystallization of savings linked to the 100 quota measures and citizenship income. A few days ago in the Budget Committee we audited Professor Tridico, President of INPS, who explained to us the results that are being obtained from these two measures. The results are not only comforting, but also surprising. On citizenship income, by 31 December 2019 an objective of 80% will be achieved, i.e. one million accepted requests and three million people will find support through it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A similar result is achieved at 100, although the savings are higher. Share 100 and citizenship income are two measures that help some people to retire after sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of contributory age and - above all - many families to have economic support in the absence of the job. Citizenship income also helps to find a job. This is an objective we set ourselves during the last parliamentary term and last year's election campaign, and we agreed with the majority political force with which we govern. I am really glad that the results are coming - and this is a great good thing for the country - all in respect of public finances. This is the most important thing: we have managed to implement expansive measures in accordance with the public accounts and the objectives we set ourselves. Many attack us, saying that the accounts were not made properly. Actually, no one has the crystal ball. The monitoring and - above all - the quantification of the resources needed for the measures prepared in the budget law and then implemented are based on estimates and statistics and therefore no one can be sure that the figures are accurate. In this case, we have managed to allocate more money than was necessary. This is good and it would certainly have been worse the opposite, i.e. if the resources had not been sufficient. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] On the other hand, we have succeeded and, again, we have achieved a very good goal. I would like to reassure everyone that the degree of accuracy with which the sums are allocated, monitored and used is truly reliable, and it is expressed by the Ministerial Offices and the General Accounting Office of the State, but also by the Senate Budget Committee, which I have the honour to chair, and by the Budget Committee of the House of Deputies. The whole thing is done with a very high degree of care, of which I am very satisfied. Caution in overestimating is one thing that has belonged to us, as having extra resources - and then getting savings - is better than not having them. The Parliamentary Budget Office has assured us that next year, with unchanged policies, we will have a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 1.7%, and that is already an excellent objective. Of course, we know very well that we will have to do other things: I am thinking of safeguard clauses, which will have to be defused, and of expansive measures. The decree-law in question helps us in this respect, that is, to show that we are capable of meeting public finance objectives and to lay the solid foundations on which to build the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is useless to move forward with promises that cannot be kept. We make promises that can be kept and we have kept those made. 1.7% can be 1.8 if we can save a little on interest. However, we can already realize that only a few weeks ago on the spread we were on... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u29	Senator Pesco, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u30	Colleagues, Senator Pesco may not have a very hard voice, but it is really very difficult to listen to him because of the buzz. Please, Senator Pesco. PESCO (M5S). As I said, just a few weeks ago the spread was above 300 basis points and now it's at 180. If we continue on this path of reassurance from the European Commission and the markets, we could safely reach 150 and even go down. This would allow, over the next three years, to achieve savings targets on the much higher interest rate, for example, reaching €18-20 billion. We almost managed to halve the spread and we must continue on this path. I shall now turn to the subject of the contract, Mr President. I would like to highlight the fact that we have managed not only to implement innovative policies for this Parliament and for the country, such as 100 and citizenship income, but also the other expansionary measures for families, companies and above all - I have to say - for justice. We have managed to introduce an innovative concept of the type of government: we have implemented a contract with the other majority force, which we are respecting step by step and - in my opinion - this is what really strengthens the foundations on which we are building the future of the nation and for this I really am very satisfied, because we are going well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have fulfilled the commitments we have made, and we have certainly started to take expansive measures, but this is not the end. What we are implementing with this decree-law, therefore, must not be seen restrictively, as dictated merely by the fulfilment of the commitments made with the European Commission, in order to avoid the famous infringement procedure. It must be seen, however, in a much wider way, noting the fact that we have used responsibilities and flexibility on the public accounts, in the sense that the sums that are not spent must be removed from the budget, because otherwise the public accounts continue to worsen. What we do not spend must be highlighted and spared, otherwise we continue to carry with us numbers that do not help us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, that of 2.4%, referring to the deficit-GDP ratio that would take place towards the end of the year, was the result that we had certified in the DEF, but we knew it was wrong. With this measure and also with what we will do with the adjustment we will be able to reach 2.04 percent. And this is absolutely a very important thing that helps our country not only from the point of view of the economy, but also to gain credibility: having acted with this reasonableness really helps us to demonstrate to the European Union, to the European Commission, but above all to the markets and to those who invest in Italy that the solid foundations are there to do really many things and above all that we respect the most important thing, namely the payment of our debts. No one has to doubt that our nation will be able to pay the debts: we will always pay them and we really have to say it loudly to the whole world, to the investors who come to Italy to lend the money to our nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, that's all I'm saying. I am very happy, because this measure seems simple and slim, but in reality it really helps us to consolidate our public accounts. For these reasons, by removing my hat as President of the Budget Commission for a moment, I declare the vote in favour that is proudly expressed by a political group which is not just a political group, but in my opinion is also a family. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u31	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 763, 753 and 880. The rapporteur, Senator Barbaro, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text that we are submitting to this House today proposes to abolish the institution of the call for skills, the so-called direct call, and to eliminate the territorial areas as a articulation of the roles of the teaching staff of the school. The abolition of the direct call, established by law no. 107 of 2015, so-called good school, brings to completion an initiative, presented at the beginning of the legislature, that the same Minister Bussetti, in the hearing on the programmatic lines before the 7th Commissions of the Senate and VII of the Chamber of 11 July 2018, had shared manifesting the intention to eliminate this institute considered excessively discretionary. The award of the three-year assignment by the school to the teachers on the territorial area, commonly called direct, following the examination of the curriculum of the newly assigned teacher by the school leaders, has in fact highlighted, since its first application, some problems of an exquisitely legal nature. First, an irrational coexistence within the same school of teachers with different legal status (school holders, therefore, immovable until the date of retirement or exit for voluntary mobility, if not for loss of the place as a result of supernumerary or disciplinary reasons, and field holders in charge of the school with term contract, therefore destined never to enter the body of the staff belonging to the school institution but always to be the last arrivals); not to mention the fact that the remaining educational and ATA staff, not touched on by the aforementioned law n. 107, remains for all intents and purposes holder at the school institutions regardless of the date of recruitment. Secondly, the creation of a fictitious ownership of the field (the only institution to which all new teaching staff and, in part, those who have obtained territorial or professional mobility can land) without the institution having a staff manager, including the organizing power over its use. Thirdly, it is not applicable to the legal institution to the same extent as all the parties concerned: it rightly excludes those who enjoy the protection of Law No 104 of 1992 or other rules that safeguard legal positions worthy of particular protection; it also excludes those who are not selected by any school and who are therefore later assigned and surrogated by the territorial offices of the MIUR. Paradoxical consequences: the teacher with the best curriculum vitae, but protected by Law No 104 of 1992, cannot be chosen, but he himself chooses the most convenient school (it is all too clear that the inspiring principle of the procedure itself fails); teachers with more or less identical curriculum vitae can be chosen by some schools according to a very discretionary or unchosen evaluation procedure, and therefore assigned by office on what remains. Fourthly, for very complex reasons, linked both to the school year cycle - as is well known, four months apart from the calendar year - and to the application of the regulations arising directly or indirectly from the budget laws, the period between the end of June and 1 September is very dense with administrative commitments at all levels of the school network organisation and the need to devote to the procedure related to the direct call a large part of the time available inevitably results in a compression effect on the other procedures linked to the opening of the school year which, consequently, either are managed in a more summary way or, worse, are placed in time for many weeks of September (exemplifying example are the timetables for the allocation of the extras on places available at provincial and institutional level). Fifth, the percentages of direct call in the two school years in which the procedure was carried out (Summer of 2016 for 2016-2017 and Summer of 2017 for 2017-2018) are so low that they clearly explain how the procedure was very unpleasing to the school world. Finally, it is not by chance, in relation to the school year 2018-2019, the agreement was reached with the trade unions in the sector for the non-execution of the direct call procedure in order to make the operations related to the opening of the school year more rational and in anticipation of a thorough revision in this matter. In the course of the negotiations, it was stated that it was not possible to activate the procedures of partnership and impartiality in identifying the professional requirements under which school managers could proceed by ensuring the publication of any objective criteria prior to the mobility 2018-2019. A simplified procedure has therefore been put in place based essentially on the score achieved. The approval of the bill n. 763-A will allow to sanction, with a rule of primary rank, that overrun now implemented by way of derogation and for the school year 2018-2019 on the basis of the collective agreement. The text is the result of a work that the Education Commission carried out in the drawing-up from 23 October 2018, when the discussion of the draft law No 753 (first signed by Senator Pittoni) and 763 (by the initiative of Senator Granato and others) was started, which was then combined with the bill No 880 (in the initiative of Senator De Petris). The process in the Commission was enriched by the elements of evaluation acquired during a cycle of informal hearings, held in November 2018, during which representatives of major trade unions, associations of school leaders and teachers and associations active in the school world were heard and to protect people with disabilities. A limited number of amendments were submitted to bill No 763, adopted as the basic text; the Commission concluded the discussion on 4 July 2019, approving amendments to the basic text. The text now under discussion in the Shareholders' Meeting consists of a single article composed of a single paragraph, which announces the law n. 107 of 2015 (the so-called good school) concerning the methods of assigning teaching staff to the posts of the staff of autonomy, from the point of view both of the functions assigned to the school manager and of the modalities of territorial articulation of the roles of the teaching staff. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barbaro, I didn't interrupt you earlier, but now I have to do this to ask my colleagues not to stop in front of the government counter. The government must be in a position to follow the debate in this House. BARBARO, rapporteur. With paragraph 1 (a) of Article 1 it is proposed to repeal the paragraphs of the single article of law no. 107 that regulate the direct call. To this is added the provisions of the following letter (h), which from the school year 2019-2020 subtracts from the school manager the proposal of assignment to teachers in the framework of the call for skills; the remaining provisions, according to which for the coverage of the posts the role teachers are allocated primarily on the common posts and support, vacant and available, to ensure the regular start of the lessons. The possibility for the school manager to use teachers in competition classes other than those for which they are qualified remains firm, provided they possess valid qualifications, training courses and consistent skills and provided that there are no qualified teachers in those competition classes (the reference to the territorial scope is deleted). With the letter b) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 territorial areas are eliminated, intervening on article 1, paragraph 66, of law n. 107, which currently provides for the regional articulation of the roles of the teaching staff, for territorial areas of inferior size to the Province or the Metropolitan City, divided into separate sections by degrees of education, classes of competition and types of place. In this regard, I recall that with the last budget law, n. 145 of 2018, it has already been established, in article 1, paragraph 796, that from the school year 2019-2020, the procedures of recruitment of teaching staff and those of territorial and professional mobility of the same staff cannot imply that teachers are assigned ownership on a territorial field. This innovation, which in fact already removed the territorial areas, had not been accompanied by an explicit modification of the rules in force relating to the territorial areas, as foreseen by the draft law under consideration. In line with this discipline, point (c) provides that, as from the school year 2019-2020, the staff of autonomy is to be shared among state educational and educational institutions, and no longer among territorial areas. This assignment is carried out by decree of the manager in charge of the Regional School Office; the possibility of assignment to activities of organization, design and coordination remains firm. The following point (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 deals with networks between schools. Networks between schools are aimed at exploiting professional resources, managing administrative functions and activities in common and at carrying out educational, educational, sporting or cultural projects or initiatives of territorial interest to be defined on the basis of agreements between schools, called network agreements. With the draft law under consideration, it is possible to establish networks between educational institutions and to conclude network agreements between different schools wherever they are located, as the reference to belonging to the same territorial area is removed. Also as a result of the elimination of territorial areas, the letter e) deletes the provision of law no. 107 which currently states that the territorial and professional mobility of teaching staff operates among territorial areas. It follows that territorial and vocational mobility will only take place for schools. I recall that on 31 December 2018 a three-year supplementary national collective agreement on mobility was signed covering the school years 2019-2020, 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 and that on this occasion it has already been established that mobility takes place only for schools. The letter f) regulates the transition from ownership on the field to that on the school establishing that the teaching staff holder on the territorial field on the date of 1 September 2018 assumes ownership at the school institution that conferred the three-year assignment. In this way the situation of those who have been assigned to the territorial areas starting from the school year 2016-2017 is healed and they are the recipients of a three-year assignment, taking into account that starting from the school year 2019-2020, the procedures of recruitment of teaching staff and those of territorial and professional mobility of the same staff cannot imply that teachers are assigned ownership on a territorial area (Article 1, paragraph 796, of Law No 145 of 2018). In this way, all teachers are entitled to school ownership. I would like to point out that the three-year supplementary national collective agreement on mobility, which I recalled earlier, already stipulates that, before carrying out mobility, teachers with a three-year mandate, including teachers with a three-year mandate due to expire on 31 August 2019, acquire ownership of the school of employment. Teachers on the field, without a school assignment, are assigned on the province. Point (g) removes the reference to territorial areas from another provision of Law No 107 which - as amended - therefore provides that only the networks of schools (and no longer the territorial areas) are to be defined in compliance with the staff of autonomy and within the financial resources available to existing legislation, without new or increased burdens on public finances. Point (i) deals with how to access the permanent roles of the teaching and educational staff of the State school, relating to recruitment through national public competitions on a regional basis. In summary, it is expected that the teachers placed in the merit rankings of the public competitions for titles and exams will be recruited, within the limits of the places put into competition and according to the ordinary faculties, in the regional roles (divided into separate sections by degrees of education, classes of competition and types of post) and express, according to the order of ranking, the preference for the school recruitment institution, in the region for which they have competed. Compared to the current legislation, the reference to the proposed three-year assignment and the preference for the territorial scope of recruitment is deleted. The reference to the territorial scope and to the proposed mandate relating to the responsibilities call mechanism is therefore deleted. Finally, point (l) amends the arrangements for access to permanent roles, with particular reference to recruitment by sliding the exhausting-GAE rankings. Again, the reference to the proposal for a three-year mandate and the preference for the territorial scope of recruitment is deleted from the current legislation. In concluding this report, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the Commission who, despite the difference - and sometimes in the face of it - have all contributed to enriching the debate in the Commission, but above all I would like to thank all the organisations that have been audited and which have contributed equally positively to the debate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u34	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the President and all the members of the 7th Senate Commission for their dedication to this important legislative intervention aimed at repealing the institution of the call for teachers' competences. The repeal of paragraphs 18, 80, 81 and 82 of Article 1 of Law No 107 of 2015 and the news of several other paragraphs are of considerable importance. Following the regulatory intervention, the directors of the regional school offices, instead of allocating the staff among the areas to proceed then to assign it among the schools, will distribute it directly between the educational and educational institutions, with the consequent reduction of the administrative burden placed on the shoulders of the school institutions. It therefore repeals a passage that amplified the workload without actually producing improvements, also given the substantial de facto disapplication of this provision, with a single formal assignment of teachers to the territorial areas and subsequent procedure of identification for competences by the school leaders. This situation had already been formally enshrined in the agreement signed on 26 June 2018 between the MIUR and trade unions. For the school year 2018-2019, the agreement had been reached with the trade unions in the sector for the non-execution of the direct call procedure in order to render more rational and expedited the operations relative to the opening of the school year and in anticipation of a regulatory revision in the matter. The division of the staff of autonomy will henceforth take place no longer on territorial areas, but on the individual educational institutions. The Parliament has therefore decided to return again to the meritorious assignment of the posts according to the criteria provided for in article 400, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No 297 of 1994, according to which the winners of the competition choose, in the order in which they are included in the ranking, the place of role among those available in the Region. In the same way, the winners of the teaching competitions and the educational staff, at the time of recruitment, will from now on be destined to a place of service according to order of ranking, rather than to a territorial scope.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u36	Since the draft law No 763, in the text drawn up by the 7th Permanent Commission, consists of only Article 1, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, the direct call of teachers or rather, as has been sweetened, the call for competences, introduced by Law No 107 of 2015, has created many dysfunctions that are correct. It is only a case that we have presented a bill, absorbed by the one we are discussing, which goes exactly in this direction. The forecast of the discretionary power of the school leaders for the direct call of the teachers has in fact introduced conditions for which there are no real, objective, transparent and verifiable requirements for the assignment of teachers, with risks therefore, that have all immediately appeared, of tensions and conflicts that, in our opinion, have caused confusion and uncertainty in the school and teaching, as well as calling into question in some cases the same freedom of teaching. The mobility of school staff must return fully to the courtyard of negotiation, on which Law No 107 of 2015, with a clear invasion of the field, had intervened heavily, compromising the transparency and regularity of the related operations. The identification of the teacher to whom the chair-place should be assigned must take place exclusively on the basis of the mobility score as it is already inclusive of both professional experience and cultural and educational qualifications. In the intentions of those who had conceived it, the direct call had to discharge the responsibility for the results of the pupils to the school leaders: the managers could have chosen the best teachers, thus improving the training offer and, consequently, the learning outcomes of the students. If they didn't, the administration would have thought about it. It was a trivial simplification, false and ineffective, which has nothing to do with improving the professionalism of teachers and the quality of teaching. The school leaders who have experienced it have been able to verify its usefulness: besides not allowing the acquisition of the necessary professionalism, the direct call did not allow the schools to complete the staff, causing only a useless increase of work that has stressed managers and secretariats even before the beginning of the school year. The draft law also aims to delete the areas, leaving, however - and here, Undersecretary, for us, the critical point - the reference to the regional level of roles. In fact, in the Commission, we had proposed to restore staff to the provincial level, re-introduced in this respect what was previously provided for in the single text (legislative decree No 297 of 1994). The stubbornness to restore staff at regional level of roles and the attempt to accelerate in this field make us understand that today the debate before us on the destiny of the school is all within the sphere of differentiated autonomy. This obstinacy in restoring regional levels makes us think that we want to speed up in this direction. We have read, in fact, some statements by Mr Stefani on differentiated autonomy that there would be no wage cage in relation to the economic treatment of school staff, but that they are instruments that already exist in our system, which is absolutely not true. It is useful to clarify these issues. In the field of salaries, regional contracts have no competence; the contractual levels dealing with salary are national and school levels. The voice of the sen fugitive to the Minister is not a situation, but an intention that is dangerous to us. In fact, we are well aware that different salary treatments are based on conditions and have different objectives. Different treatments result in - alas - different rights for the same recipients of school work, i.e. pupils and students. All regions would need more adequate staff and all higher-wage school workers. The way forward is certainly not that of differentiated salaries at regional level. In addition, the draft law replaces paragraph 79 of Law No 107 of 2015 with the possibility that, starting from the school year 2019-2020, for the coverage of the places of the school institution, the teachers of role are assigned primarily on the common places and support, vacant and available, but also with the possibility that the school manager can use the teachers in classes of competition other than those for which they are qualified. This tells us - alas - that school is in great suffering. We also wonder why you have not listened all this year and a half to the constant demands we have made for stabilisation. Last year 32,217 unallocated chairs remained; this year we travel on 58,627 promises from Minister Bussetti, but it is expected that more than half will be empty due to lack of candidates. The rankings are exhausted, especially in scientific disciplines. Think that in Turin, Milan and Rome the lists of those who can teach mathematics are completely exhausted. As you can see, next year the situation will become even worse. The school will live a real emergency condition with over 150,000 chairs and over 24,000 seats ATA You've got it. This will make it very difficult to guarantee the right to study students. This is why we will continue to ask what was requested in the last parliamentary term and in the current: a substantial plan of recruitment of teachers to cover more than 150,000 free posts; a transitional phase in which to stabilize the work of teachers already qualified or with three years of service; measures that resolve in a clear and definitive way the problems generated by the dispute of the magisterial graduates; the stabilization in the legal staff of the 56,000 authorized posts between staff in fact and derogations on support on which the school must rely with continuity and, above all, appropriate measures to ensure that all the regions of the South adapt to the objective, therefore, to spread more and more the pedagogical-organizational model of full time. The rights of the pupils are based on the professionalism and passion of the teachers and of all those who work in the school, but passion and professionalism are fed by certain rules, serenity of climate and didactic continuity, reachable through the elimination of precariousness and certainly not through the race of the managers to grab the teachers considered best. For this reason we have always opposed the direct call and therefore we have participated in the work for the modification of this part of the law n. 107 of 2015. We therefore start from the consideration that schools, in order to function well, need a few simple things: stability, motivation and training of staff, reliable resources and beautiful and safe schools. If there had been no obstinacy to refer to the regional level of roles, we could have also voted in favour. For all these reasons we are announcing our abstention vote, but we wanted to hand over to the House, to the Undersecretary and to the Members of the Commission all our concerns about the future of school both as regards - alas - the framework for differentiated autonomy and, in the immediate future, as regards the problem - which I think I have clearly outlined in the numbers - of the crisis situation regarding the recruitment of school staff for the beginning of the school year. I hope that the government and the majority will strongly rethink the system of differentiated autonomy that they are designing and that, above all, a new stabilisation season will start to put an end to the precariousness in the school. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u42	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Brother of Italy Group will vote in favour of abolishing the direct call, because it has strongly undermined the principle of freedom of teaching protected by the Constitution. We therefore return to school ownership and abolish the territorial areas. We consider it positive, because in this way one overcomes an aspect of Law 107 of 2015, the so-called law on good school, which represented one of the wrong reforms of the Renzi government. The Government of Change had made an explicit commitment in its contract to dismantle the law on good school, which we accepted with partial satisfaction. Unfortunately, we have to record that, after more than a year of government work, we only collect partial results, as is the case today. The Italian school is in fact in emergency conditions, for the wrong choices of the past and for a very strong presence of the precarious. The Brothers of Italy Group has always tried to make positive contributions on the aspects contained in our program, trying to seize every opportunity, in every measure that gave the possibility. Unfortunately, our initiatives - we must also say this - have remained too often dead letter, so today of that project of overcoming good school we collect only this fruit. We believe that good school should be completely abolished, but, in addition to the abolition of the direct call, we should have taken action on another series of very important aspects, such as the phenomenon of the "poultry classes," the rankings for teaching and precariousness, in particular in childhood and primary school. Greater attention should have been paid to disabled students, to the continuing training of teachers, to the fight against school dispersal. There should have been a clear revision of the system of school-work alternation. The question of school construction should have been raised. There are very serious problems throughout the national territory, especially for high school, after the destruction of the Provinces, due to another very wrong reform, the Delrio reform, which we are all aware of having to overcome. However, it seems to me that, beyond the announcements, little or nothing has been done to return to an institutional level of the Provinces that gives real answers to the fundamental functions that they still have and, among them, there is certainly that of school construction. I repeat this because none of us certainly want to mourn announced tragedies. Our children, through the school, experience the presence of the State in the lives of citizens at the very moment when they form their consciences. Children must have decent environments, otherwise it is then difficult for teachers to explain and make the presence of the State understand. Compared to what you have foreseen in the government contract, we also allow ourselves to support the need for a concrete system of university guidance and work. As we reported to the Minister at the hearing in Joint Commissions, we call for actions to restore authority to the teaching staff, which is another element of the crisis strongly felt in the world of school. We hope that in the continuation of government activity all these objectives will be finalized. However, we must say that in recent months we have lost much confidence in the subject of school, after the affair of the magisterial graduates and the precarious general, who did not find an immediate response, just as it had been promised generously during the electoral campaign. It is approaching the beginning of a new school year with announced emergencies, which will put again this year in serious ambassadors the world of the school, not giving our students the opportunity of a teaching continuity. So for Brothers of Italy, waiting for the light to win over the darkness [[Comments from the PD Group]] , we must be content with the glow that announces the dawn. That is why we reiterate our support for the abolition of the direct call. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u45	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we are in a somewhat strange country, because it is difficult to have legitimate parliamentary questions in this House concerning, for example, the Vice-President of the Council on the issue of funds and funding for his party, but instead we admit without any problem the discussion of a bill that has a title that invites us to delete something that does not exist. You said that too, Mr President, in the normal reading of the text on our agenda. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u46	I apologize, Senator Malpezzi. Colleagues, you are already not very many in this House, but those few are too noisy. This is not acceptable in explanation of vote. Please don't make me call you back nominally, because it wouldn't be dignified.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u47	Please, Senator Malpezzi. MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I was saying that you repeated this, too, when you said, among other things, that the direct call should be abolished. It is a good thing that the Undersecretary Giuliano did not want to keep the farce to the end and that, in his report, he pointed out that it would be called the abolition of the call for competences. I would point out that the direct call does not exist; it did not exist in Law No 107 and does not exist in the paragraphs that want to go to abolish and modify. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; There is only one beautiful slogan, which serves for propaganda. So let us move on, but let me point out that one thing is not abolished, precisely because it does not exist, but that the call for competence is abolished. It is not your fault, Mr President, since texts are accepted in which basically we try to make political propaganda even on the hands of our children. You see, President, the skill call was all but what has been told by the propaganda made all these years. It was not a way to recruit teachers: the skill call was simply to make the school choose, among all teachers already in office and therefore already recruited (even the Undersecretary can confirm this), the most suitable teacher for that school. I repeat that this choice was made between teachers already employed. What does this mean? I want to try to set an example to help colleagues, who may not chew on the technicalities of the school, to understand how they should work. I come from Pioltello, a municipality of the hinterland of Milan that has a very high percentage of foreign residents, whose schools, which are trained and able to deal with a didactic for students who perhaps do not speak Italian at home, need as the bread of teachers of role with the certification or competence in teaching Italian to foreign children. What, then, did the call for competences mean, that is, those paragraphs that you are going to abolish today? He predicted that a school manager, like the undersecretary Giuliano (assuming that he was the school manager of a school in Pioltello), could choose from a series of curricula of role teachers who wanted to go and teach at Pioltello, having submitted the relative request (I remember that the call for skills is a request towards the school that starts from the teachers, who present their curriculum). On that occasion the manager, for example, could have been faced with Malpezzi's curriculum, which, while being a teacher of role, does not have the specialization in teaching Italian to foreigners. And between Malpezzi, who doesn't have that specialization, is of role and can go to teach Italian also in another school, maybe in a neighboring territory, and another colleague whose curriculum presents the specialization in teaching Italian for foreigners, maybe he could choose that teacher. This situation, Mr President, to whom was it good for? It was good for the teacher, who was able to make the most of his professionalism and his course of study, because - let us be clear - there are many teachers in this House, each of us has a different course of study, and this does not mean that one is more or less good than the other, but that one has a history, that has interests, passions, means that it has been formed in another way. Well, that prediction valued the teachers, because they could put their potential at stake and especially helped the kids, because that school would have the opportunity to give them an extra tool. This is the call for competences that is being abolished in this House today. Along with this, one wants to abolish the possibility of a teacher to be valued for what he is. Today, with the approval of the measure under consideration, wins the rule that all teachers are equal and that their professionalism and career must not exist. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In fact, if everyone is the same, if everyone can teach anywhere, if everyone has the same skills, what is the difference between one teacher and another? Except for the great veil of hypocrisy, because then we know, that it is the same parents who go to the school manager who ask for the children to be placed in one section rather than another. But in the meantime, thanks to those who have promoted this proposal, we continue to say that all teachers are equal, that they know how to do anything and that above all they are not useful to children and that school. Within the much-vaunted law no. 107 of 2015, the call for competences was married to another very important measure, that of strengthening, in fact in those years we have increased the staff of more than 50,000 units. Trying to simplify, before law no. 107 of 2015 - and this is also well known by the Undersecretary Giuliano, for his own experience as a school man - in the assignment of teachers to schools by the school offices, since before the Undersecretary specified it, he considered the number of students of the school and classes and was assigned a number of students for each class, that is those necessary for the disciplines that that class needed. It was a standardised and bureaucratic procedure, a normal division was made. What did the bad, ugly Renzi Government Democratic Party do, President? They said that a school is not simply the educational proposals that it makes from the point of view of teaching, it is not only the material that teaches, but it is also made by all the great projects that can be carried out. Therefore, we needed more teachers, to reflect the school's identity card, which in the school world is called a training offering plan. It means that the class board and the teaching colleges decide on what projects to aim for, so the school manager decides to need more teachers, perhaps in certain disciplines or with certain skills, to be able to deal with those projects. To do this, we put at school 50,000 more teachers, because if the school manager could choose, through the instructions of the school board and therefore of all colleagues, how to set up the work of his school, as an identity card to give it, they needed those specific teachers and therefore we call them for skills. And what will happen today, Mr President? Which teachers will come to those schools? What plans will be made? We would not want three parts of Law 107 of 2015 to be abolished in order to go to cash, later, out of 50,000 less teachers, who will gradually be absorbed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is in fact the project that is also behind other measures under discussion in the Education Commission, right here in the Senate, and I would like to give an example, always to help colleagues understand what they are going to vote for. Today there is a proposal for a law to strengthen the teaching of motor education in schools. Great, we all agree, but with what teachers? I remember that, within that strengthening staff - the additional 50,000 that we, the ugly and bad ones of the Democratic Party, of the Renzi Government, had predicted - we had said that 5% (the last budget law passed when we were in the government) had to be used precisely to begin to strengthen the teaching of motor education. What happens to those teachers now, since there's this bill? How will they be taken? Or will they simply be absorbed to save more money? They are legitimate concerns, because colleagues had an instrument in their hands, which the same call for expertise gave them, and which they do not want to use. You see, Mr President, we are witnessing daily quarrels within the Government of Change, where there are those who raise their voices the most: we are witnessing the offenses, the threats of crisis, an increasing tension. In the end, however, Mr President, they are all the same: they are the ones who are angry with school leaders, so much so as to leave fingerprints for the latter alone, because they clearly believe that they are unreliable people; they are those who in the call for skills see only and exclusively the possibility of the school manager to create his own clientele; they are those who of the school world have a vision simply linked to consensus, which change does not involve. So, Mr President, through a nice plate of lentils, they are selling the future of the kids and our schools. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u50	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking as the author of the first draft law at the time against the so-called direct call of teachers, a request which, moreover, responded to our specific electoral commitment. The award of the three-year assignment by the school to the teachers on a territorial basis, following the examination of the curriculum of the newly assigned teacher by the school leaders (commonly referred to as direct call), has highlighted problems of a legal nature since the first application. Firstly, the coexistence within the same school of teachers with different legal status: holders of school, therefore unmovable until the date of retirement, and field holders appointed in the school with a term contract, therefore destined never to enter concretely into the body of staff belonging to the school institution. Not to mention the fact that the remaining school staff (educational and ATA, not affected by Law 107 of 2015) remains for all intents and purposes holder at the school institutions, regardless of the date of recruitment. Secondly, the creation of a fictitious domain ownership without the institution having its rational territorial connotation and an organic staff management system. Thirdly, the direct call takes place in a legal institution which is not applicable to the same extent as all the parties concerned: it excludes those who enjoy the protection of Law No 104 of 1992 and those who are not selected by any school and are instead assigned to Surrogate by the territorial offices of the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Paradoxical consequence, the teacher with the best curriculum, but protected by law no. 104, cannot be chosen. It is clear that the guiding principle of the procedure is lacking: teachers with more or less identical curricula can be chosen by some schools on the basis of a very discretionary evaluation procedure or not to be chosen and, therefore, to be assigned automatically on what remains. Fourthly, for reasons linked both to the cycle of the school year - as is well known, divided by four months compared to the calendar year - and to the application of the regulations arising directly or indirectly from the laws of stability, the period between the end of June and 1 September is very dense with administrative requirements at all levels of the school organization. Having to devote a large part of the time available to the direct call procedure inevitably results in a compression effect on the other procedures linked to the opening of the school year, which, as a result, end up being managed in summary or, worse, placed over time, invading heavily the month of September. The striking example is the timetables for the allocation of additional posts at provincial and institutional level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Fifth, the direct call rates during the two years in which this procedure was used (2016 and 2017) are so low that they clearly explain how little the school world liked. Sixthly, it is no coincidence, already in relation to the school year 2018/2019, the agreement has been reached with the trade unions in the sector in order not to apply it, in order to render more rational and expedited the operations relative to the opening of the school year and in anticipation of a deep regulatory revision in this matter. For all these reasons, I declare the League's vote in favour of the definitive abolition of the direct call of teachers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u53	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the government, my fellow senators, I provide some data to understand what we are talking about when we discuss the subject of school. According to the Invalsi 2019 report, one student who even reaches the diploma in three shows insufficient knowledge of the Italian language; as for mathematics, the percentage rises to almost 50 percent. Of course, this is accompanied by the known differences between North and South regarding the training offer. Eurostat data tell us that 14.5% of students do not complete their studies, so the phenomenon of early school leaving is more serious in Italy than elsewhere in Europe. Our teachers are on average underpaid by the European average. Tens of thousands of professors are still vacant and, therefore, this school year will begin again for our children and grandchildren with uncertainty, this year worse than the previous years, because the normal inefficiency of the system add the effects of quota 100 and early retirements. Not knowing what teachers will have our children and grandchildren is not a good way to start them into the future. I say an obvious thing, but I believe that the quality and level of a nation's education depends on the quality and level of its future, even in a clandestine age and something like the one in which we live. I think it cannot be denied that, for the type of life that we all have to do, teachers are the adults that our children and grandchildren attend the most throughout the day and their value is not only in what they eventually manage to pass on to our children and grandchildren, but they represent, in themselves, a model to confront, in positive or negative. This is a system that can be corrected and improved, starting from a principle, which to us at Forza Italia seems banal. Just as doctors, lawyers, journalists or politicians are not all the same, neither are teachers; not everyone knows what they have to pass on to equal extent and not everyone knows how to pass on what they know to students in equal measure. There is a metaphor for a well-known Irish poet who is a bit rhetorical, but beautiful in my opinion: The school is not filling a bucket, but lighting a fire. In fact, it is not only about transferring notions about notions to be stored in the minds of our young people, but also about accessing in them that spark that moves an interest, possibly a passion for what they study. This, in our opinion, is not possible if we do not finally begin to introduce into the world of school a criterion that exists in all other professional areas, except among the ranks of the judiciary: the meritocracy. That is to say accepting the fact that not everyone is equal and that not everyone should have the same professional destiny, the same career, the same salary. The only criterion governing the careers of the teaching staff is that of seniority. This prevents or at least complicates the hope of raising the level and lighting that fire that Yeats pointed to as the school's goal. The reform that we are talking about, moreover, has already been repealed by a trade union agreement, so we are formalizing something that is already in reality, because last June the Ministry signed with the unions the overcoming of the direct call, which then defines itself called by competence and competence is a word, although desueta in this historical phase, not to be overlooked. The reform of the Renzi Government, like so many reforms of that Government, started from a just principle; then it realized it badly, probably very badly, but denying that principle is not a good way to render a service to our community. It is true that individual merit, individual responsibility, those elements that represent the spirit of capitalism belong little to our national biography and our national character - there are those who say why we have not had Protestant reform, there are those who say why we have had so many foreign dominations, but it is a fact with which we do well to deal - but this is not a good reason to completely renounce to apply them and cultivate them in us. With the approval of this provision, you show two serious things, which connote the majority that supports this Government and the parties that are part of this majority: the first, that leaps to the eyes, is that a party, that throughout its political existence, until recently, as the North League, has made autonomy, distinction between territories, decentralisation the cornerstone of its identity, with a Minister of Legist Education deny this principle and returns to centralize the school system. It's your choice, it's a sign of changing times, but it doesn't seem like the best way to make our school system stable and strong. The other, concerns the whole Government: there was announced as a Government of change, there is no change, there is a restoration. You miss the opportunity to take those good principles poorly realized by the Renzi Government and re-launch them, giving them a new life. Go back and do it with the usual, old, outdated logic of school policies, which are not aimed at students, serve and are only thought to quell the potential revolts of the teaching staff. I believe that the president of the National Principals Association, Antonello Giovannelli, is right, who in recent days, commenting on this counter-reform of yours said that this repeal could also be useful for the principals, the school leaders, who would ultimately have an obligation less. It certainly does not make the interest of the users and since Forza Italia is always on the side of the users, because the users are our children and our grandchildren and because we have not completely renounced our identity and the recognition of the individual merit was and remains one of our bulwarks, our will be a vote against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u56	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, today, almost exactly four years later, we are here to fulfill a commitment that the Movimento 5 Stars has made before the world of Italian school: to cancel the most shameful piece of Law No 107 of 2015, mockedly called good school, specifically the part that introduced the direct call of teachers and ownership on territorial areas. It was July 9, 2015 and with the approval of that law the fate of Italian schools was destined to change for the worse. From that moment a teacher recruited or became supernumerary after the entry into force of the good school, in fact, acquired no longer the ownership on school but on territorial scope. The moment of casting opened for the teacher. Yes, because from that moment he had to submit to auditions by presenting his curriculum to the schools where he intended to propose his candidacy, according to the requirements required by a notice issued by the school manager. Not only that: he signed a three-year contract and remained precarious for life, in spite of the misleading publicity that Renzi did then on the guarantee of continuity of teaching, never realized. The teachers, sent all over Italy with an algorithm, with mobility phenomena in derogation never seen before, who since then seriously compromise the good functioning of the educational institutions, especially in Northern Italy. The school, already grounded in its constitutional role since the introduction of school autonomy twenty years ago, thus became a definitive project, oriented by the educational choices of a school manager out of all hierarchical control. The teacher thus lost the freedom of teaching provided for in Article 33 of the Constitution. Curricular didactics were sacrificed to the satisfaction of the executive's claims; claims often linked to the economic needs of schools to obtain the money needed to go ahead, with which to buy a toner or photocopie paper or yet another showcase. Those who teach know what has brought all this: disciplines emptied for the benefit of an extemporaneous design that subtracts and does not give solid cultural skills and bases to students, subjects in training today increasingly fragile. If someone has seen this year's Invalsi reports they can surely find significant feedback on the outcomes of the good school. School autonomy, driven by the extreme consequences of Law No 107 of 2015, has increased the gap in student learning based on the territorial context of reference. What we had always feared when the draft law was launched was unmistakably realized: A-series schools and B-series schools do beautifully show themselves in those statistics. This was not what the constituent Fathers wanted when they prescribed the establishment of state schools of all order and rank. The situation in schools today is also known to those careful parents who for their children require registration in sections where there are teachers working in the classroom. These are those famous contrasting teachers, abhorred by the managers: a case that was destined for extinction because they are refractory to the flattery and blackmail introduced by the aforementioned law no. 107. I am referring to those teachers who have continued to hold up the Italian schools, marginalized to have a conscience and a professional ethics that takes them out of business logic, created in reality ad hoc to cut state funding to schools. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The school of the Constitution was designed to train the free man, the citizen who will have to exercise the right to vote tomorrow, with a critical conscience that allows him to face the challenges of the future. From this point of view, the student must develop a divergent thought in order to juggle in unexplored areas today. The citizen who exercises the right to vote responsibly must know the history, history of art, philosophy, mathematics, literature and languages. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Because a citizen decontextualized at a cultural level will be easy prey to the volatile logics of the market, the misleading information of the web, the elite and the castes that will do with it what suits them. Today it is urgent to give schools quality, not amount of activity upstream unchanged hours. Since the teacher no longer fulfils his role as a quality trainer, a social hatred has been unleashed against the category, which is reflected in numerous facts of the news. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In him one recognizes a parasite, an autocrate without authority because the teacher, emptied of his role and filled with bureaucratic burdens, has lost his social connotation, even in a context of very strong educational and cultural poverty, for which his role would be needed as of the air. But there is a policy that has been working under the table for 20 years to destroy the school; a policy of disguised cuts and marchettes to the private training agencies that we know well. The teachers who continued to work in the classroom and to evaluate correctly and reliably were mortified and discouraged in all possible ways: it was practically forbidden to reject or suspend the judgment, except in irreconcilable cases with the restrictions imposed by the law for admission to the following year. These measures - rejection and suspension of judgment - have a cost, it is not a question of goodness. The so-called merit bonus has been introduced, given without transparency, annually, by the school manager only to the teacher who is able to perform extracurricular functions, so he is also paid separately, who often does not set foot in the classroom and teaches on videoconferencing when he does. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are, therefore, prizes for those who adapt to frustrate the authentic function of public school. To those who strive to keep her standing, instead, they touch marginalization, at best, and forms of masked mobbing, in the worst. In this policy, I see a plan, a design that benefits only a parallel market without training, which wants to create needs where quality and opportunities for social mobility for all were freely guaranteed, as the Constitution provides in Article 34. I challenge anyone to have access to an access faculty programmed today without attending a course with a modest cost of at least 1,200/1,500 euros. All students with social distress are destined to remain excluded, even the best. The politics for over twenty years sees center-right and center-left undisputed protagonists, respectively, of cuts in the school sector and of obvious forms of cultural and formative lobbyism, through the sharing of projects of private associations such as the Fondazione Agnelli, the Compagnia di São Paulo, the TreeLLLe association, to understand those that dictated the good school, a reform made to destroy public education, starting from the recruitment paths of teachers three years long but not selective, to finish with the exorbitant number of hours of alternating school work without its dedicated space within the school calendar. Teachers are a meek category in general, but when they say it's enough it's a sign that you've passed the measure. This was demonstrated by the outcome of the constitutional referendum of 4 December 2016 and the general elections on 4 March 2018. The public state school must today be rewritten with those who live it daily, therefore with teachers, managers, students, families and non-teaching staff. To date, we have modified the recruitment system, reduced and redefined the alternation school work and, finally, canceled this umpteenth abomination of the direct call and ownership on territorial scope. We know that the road is still long and uphill, but if we want to give our young people and our country a future we must bring Italian school back to the quality levels for which it was an international model. Precisely because I believe that today is the crowning of four long years of struggles of the true good Italian school, I want to report some sentences of colleagues with whom we have literally made barricades, never interrupting the mobilization, because sooner or later all political forces have to confront their reforms and their voters and nodes come to the comb. I quote three in which I find myself in full warning to those who improvise themselves in the role of school legislator and remain absolutely self-referential. One is: It must always be remembered with punctuality the way in which 107 was imposed to kick a country whose needs were certainly not those that saw the school as a company in which to place new and always old economic interests. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Another: "Renzi" used to call every attempt at dialogue and participation that citizens tried to exercise. His acolytes used to interact with the complaining "beast" to govern with sovereign contempt. One third: The general complaints were the effect of the expulsion of citizens from public affairs, treated as idiotic monkeys to govern with the staff. These are the words of teachers! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Mr. Undersecretary, but do you agree? GRANATO (M5S). That fight has never stopped and thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars we can say that the battle of the Italian school against the most hateful part of the good school has been won! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. GRANATO (M5S). For these reasons I am proud of the town, but above all of a teacher, to vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Many Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Mr. Undersecretary, you're a school manager! Doesn't he say anything?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u57	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 763, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from Senators Bellanova, Malpezzi and Ripamonti.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 753 and 880. BELLANOVA (PD). But it's a good thing the Undersecretary doesn't vote! (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellanova, let us continue our work. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Even Senator Malpezzi, I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u58	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1401, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Santillo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u59	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House, consists of two articles. With the article 1, paragraph 1, it is arranged the deferment to 1° January 2020 (compared to 1° January 2019) of the term for the application of the disposition of the code of the nautical boating from diporto that previews the obligation of the nautical license for the conduction of units having motor of displacement beyond 750 cubic centimeters, to injection, to two times. The provision to which reference is made in paragraph 1 is contained in article 39, paragraph 1, letter b), of the code of the nautical from diporto, that previews, in the current formulation, the obligation of the boat license for all the units from diporto, of length not exceeding twenty-four meters. Such formulation had recently been modified with the legislative decree of revision of the code of the nautical from diporto, the legislative decree n. 229 of 2017. The new text of article 39, paragraph 1, has produced, in fact, the effect of imposing to a significant number of owners of small and very small boats equipped with engines out of board the obligation to obtain the boat license. Moreover, even some hundreds of companies that have purchased engines of the above type indicated in order to use them for the lease of small units (obviously for subjects not holders of nautical license), have found themselves dislocated from the legislative novelty. In order to avoid economic damages to the enterprises and to the entire field of the nautical one from diporto, decree-law 25 July 2018, n. 91, converted, with modifications, from the law 21 September 2018, n. 108, had already arranged the postponement of the application of the new discipline to 1° January 2019. This has allowed, for the summer season 2018, to avoid serious damage to the commercial operators of the sector. However, the postponement was too short in relation to the depreciation period of the purchase cost of a marine engine, which cannot be limited to one year. Therefore, a further postponement is necessary, which would allow to avoid further damage to the operators of the sector and to contribute, at the same time, to the development of nautical tourism, on which it is necessary to invest and to ensure that it continues to be a flywheel for the economies of the territories and for our Country. With paragraph 2 of Article 1, it is expected instead the extension to 31 October 2020 (compared to 31 October 2019) of the entry into force of the decree of the Minister of Infrastructures and Transports 29 July 2016, n. 206, for the identification of the subjects authorized to hold the training courses to the rescue in marine waters, inland waters and swimming pools and the release of the ratings to the exercise of the activity of bathing assistant, extending simultaneously to the same date the authorizations to the exercise of training activities and concession for the performance of the activities of aquatic saving, released before 31 December 2011. Article 2 regulates the entry into force of the law. Allow me to thank the majority and opposition senators of the 8th Commission, with whom a constructive discussion has taken place that has enabled this measure to arrive so quickly, and also the Commission officials for their valuable support. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 11:58 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u60	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u61	Mr President, since I am the only member to speak, I am speaking, after Senator Santillo, on behalf of all the members of this House and I am very honoured. As I said in the Commission, today we are dealing in fact with the minimum extensions, because there are two extensions to our examination: the first concerns outboard engines up to 750 cubic centimetres (1,000, 1,300, etc.) and the second is the issue of the patent for bathroom assistants, therefore for those structures that issue the patent for bathers for inland and marine waters. Well, there are two extensions and so the argument could be an end in itself. Are we in agreement or are we against it? We agree, of course, but the question is that, first from 2005 and then from 2017, in particular on the question of pleasure boating, it is discussed on two issues: whether the engine 750 cc (I say it for the Assembly to be adopted) is by injection or not and, depending on the difference of this quality of the engine, is made compulsory or not the boat license. I say, anticipating that we will vote in favour, that it seems to me quite reductive for the Assembly of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies to start to displease whether an engine is injection or not, for the release of the boat license. I believe - and I repeat what our Group has said in the Commission - that on the issue of leisure we must envisage a specific session of the 8th Commission and really commit the Senate Assembly to the question of what we want from the pleasure, because from the Monti Government on forward there has been the scientific destruction of a sector that is a key element of the national economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would not want it to be done as with the Ministry of Tourism, which was cancelled many years ago. It would be really incredible to fuck with two topics: in Italy, a country that lives on tourism, the Ministry has been cancelled; in an Italy that lives on sea and coast tourism, on the diporto we do as little as possible and try to destroy yards, charterers and users, who are a cornerstone of our economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, I am addressing you, who is a man of experience, and we are very much in favour of this very trivial measure (we are also a little ashamed to vote for it, but we are voting for it with enthusiasm in the interest of the charterers) and of course we hope that the majority will sit down with us and talk really about pleasure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u62	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u63	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u64	Mr President, the opinion on the agenda G1100 is in favour if the following rewording is accepted: it commits the Government to work in the months following the adoption of the draft law in question to ensure a discipline in this field that evaluates, with a view to balancing the interests of the owners of these engines with the primary need for safety of navigation, the opportunity or not to confirm the obligation of boating licences for them, indicating, where appropriate, a certain and definitive date for the entry into force of the obligation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u65	Senator Campari, do you accept the reformulation? Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I accept the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u68	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of both the extensions covered by this measure. We know that this intervention was hoped for and much awaited, especially during this particular period, the summer season, by the operators in the sector. There has been some concern about the sanctioning regime that was linked to the implementation of the measure, so we cannot fail to take this into account. In the House of Deputies, however, the Democratic Party confirmed its vote in favour. However, we have agreed to this measure by reducing the time allowed for the extension. This does not mean denying, as far as we are concerned, the approach we had at the time when we approved the legislative decree which was the subject of the extension. What motivated us, in fact, was, on the one hand, to update standards that were particularly confused and contradictory and, on the other hand, to ensure the greatest possible safety in a sector where safety, as is known, is never too much, especially because of the many fans not always, of course, trained. We never thought, at the time he made that measure, of penalising an economic category. This is all the more true if we compare ourselves with the legislation of other European countries in which we need a boat licence for driving engines with powers considerably lower than we have planned. Despite our sharing, we want to send out a clear message: over a year and a half, this is the second extension of the implementation of a measure. The extensions are not useful to anyone and, therefore, this is the last time and an incentive to the Government to finally put in place a new formulation that combines all the needs expressed by the operators of the sector, not only the economic ones, but also the institutional ones. That is why we hope that this further time will be used to finally put a matter in order. The extension intervenes not only on the implementation of the measure with reference to the feeding of the engines of the boats, but also in order finally to define with decree of the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports the subjects authorized to hold the courses of formations for the saving in marine waters and in the swimming pools. It is a very delicate issue that has to do with the safety of people. You find Minister Toninelli time to focus on this issue because it is about the safety of the millions of bathers we have on our coasts and inland waters. Faced with the extensions, we confirm therefore the favorable vote and we ask finally a table with all the operators - when I speak of institutional subjects I mean the Harbour offices - in order to put to system all the perplexities and the contradictions expressed. By the last date of the extension, I believe that there is also time to adapt the existing legislation. For these reasons, confident and with the hope that this will happen, I announce that the Democratic Party vote will be in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u71	Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, the measure we are about to adopt is yet another remedy - as has already been mentioned - through the postponement to 1 January 2020 of the entry into force of a rule that we inherited from previous governments and that is simply wrong. Beyond the rescue at sea and the lifeguards, we speak, with reference to outboard engines, to those with power of 40 horses. In Italy they are in fact now a reference point for anyone who wants to lead small naval units without having to be in possession of the nautical license. In practice, these are the most widespread authorizations for all those small boats that are rented in summer by tourists - I remember that today is July 18 - in all seaside resorts. We are talking about the dinghy, to understand, that many people use by the sea to go to discover the coves and hidden beaches and that generate a not indifferent induced to the sector. The indicted rule dates back to 2015 - its paternity is, therefore, quite clear - and entered into force in 2018. It has modified the parameters that must comply with the different types of engines to be used without a licence. This change, in fact, since 2018 has made outlawed and therefore useless in all respects, from one day to the next, about 7,000 two-stroke injection engines, plus all other types, as Senator Mallegni recalled, which have a power less than 41 horsepower. Many of these engines have been purchased by about 217 Italian companies to lease these small boats and this standard has thus effectively paralysed the activity of many companies. It is therefore evident that the introduction of the obligation of the nautical license for the use of these engines has generated an ulterior damage to the field (besides all the others), since before 2018 many companies have made investments, buying this type of engines, that they were according to law and that they have been made completely unusable from the norm in question. Many tourists, in fact, when they go to our coasts do not have a boat license and when they rent one of these boats they find themselves in difficulty: therefore such means become impossible to rent. Similarly, even the private owners of the units equipped with these engines, being not in possession of boat license, have found themselves from one day to another in the impossibility to use own boats. It is therefore obvious that, in recent years, in order to avoid economic damage to the whole sector, two derogations have been foreseen, first to save the 2018 season and now to save at least half of the 2019 season. It is obvious, however, that more structural intervention is absolutely necessary, because we are well aware that the extension cannot be the rule. The agenda at my first signature, which has been accepted, is moving in this very light, in order to find a definitive solution, which will remedy a situation that has been going on for too long now. I therefore call on the competent Commission to find a solution, perhaps making it possible to use engines under 41 horsepower for at least a reasonable number of years, at least for those who bought them before the entry into force of this rule, and then to go to speed when these engines run out. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, with the hope that the entire Assembly will join this vote, because this is a really urgent and urgent need of the sector. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u74	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, as far as the first paragraph is concerned, namely the issue of boating, I refer to what Senator Mallegni has said in general debate: this is an appropriate intervention, to which they will have to follow further in-depth discussions on a very important sector for our country. In fact, it must be preserved both the functionality of the sector and the safety of those who practice this practice and also of the other people who are in the same areas. However, I would like to focus on the neglected paragraph 2 of Article 1, which concerns swimming. I speak of it with knowledge of cause, being a master of salvation, title that seems spiritual, but that is rather very practical. There are some companies, starting with the Italian Swimming Federation, which are empowered to instruct and qualify bathing assistants. Sometimes they are called lifeguards, but the bathing assistant, in addition to bringing the person back to the shore or to the edge, if it is a pool, is able to carry out the first rescues and also the maneuvers of cardiolung resuscitation. It is therefore an important asset for our country: thousands of people who are qualified every year, who can intervene naturally when it comes to accidents in the water, but also outside. The maneuvers of cardiac massage and artificial respiration, in fact, are evidently feasible against anyone in need. It is therefore important that the spirit of the measure which continues to extend its entry into force is implemented and that adequate controls are carried out in the meantime to ensure that those who qualify do so in the best possible way. These people, in fact, have a very important qualification, to the point that they are even equated to medical staff in case of emergency; whereas we know that no one is required to intervene for the competence of a doctor, bathers or persons with the highest qualifications in the context of such patents are required to intervene in order not to incur the charge of failure to help. Therefore, they are also required to update and keep up to date in order to be able to do so. This is a very important aspect that should be followed closely. For the rest, on both the topics addressed, both on the nautical, and on the salvation to swimming, Forza Italia will vote in favor of the provision. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u77	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that in a country like ours, which boasts the beauty of 7,500 kilometres of coastline and has in the sea one of the fundamental habitats at the naturalistic, social, economic and transport level, the pleasure boat is of fundamental importance, especially with regard to small boats with outboard engines, of very wide spread among the private ones, but also among the many economic operators in the rental sector. The issue of security must always be a priority: we can all agree on this. It is therefore crucial to work towards a further step on this front as soon as possible. However, it is also a priority to avoid economic damage to operators in the sector and to contribute to the development of nautical tourism, which is one of the most flourishing realities along our coasts. For this reason it is necessary to arrange a new extension to 1 January 2020 of the current norm regarding the conduction of nautical units with motor of displacement beyond 750 cubic centimeters to injection to two times, that it will allow the operators that have invested in the purchase of small units to amortize the costs incurred, being able to continue to rent these means also to people without nautical license, and therefore to exercise to full the commercial activity. At the same time, private individuals who wish to obtain a licence will also be given time. It is also necessary to provide for an extension of the time limits for the new provisions on the training of bathers, in order to allow the certification of new staff, pending the identification of the authorized subjects to hold the training courses and thus to meet the working needs of the sector: among others, to ask it is the same body of the Harbour offices. As always, we try to work on the road to common sense. We therefore obviously announce the vote in favour of this extension, without which we would bring down an entire economic segment of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u78	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u79	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00498 on the suppression of the Frecciarossa train no stop Venice-Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u80	Mr President, I would remind you that the high-speed train in question is part of the railway connections on the market, the so-called Arrows, carried out by Trenitalia in full commercial autonomy. About the connection Venice-Rome, Trenitalia specifies that only a remodulation of the offer has been made, since the no-stop version had a load of passengers insufficient to bear the costs of the train, to exclusive load of the same enterprise. In fact, the changes made to the Frecciarossa 9403 and 9446, timetables and stops, in force since the winter time 2018-2019, have the function of guaranteeing the sustainability and the greater regularity of the railway commercial offer in the connections between Veneto and the capital. Trenitalia reports that these changes have immediately increased passengers by 57 percent. More generally, the new offer of Trenitalia's market services between Veneto and Rome - consisting of 40 daily runs, of which 24 Frecciarossa and 16 Frecciargento - has remained unchanged from the quantitative point of view and has been significantly improved under the quality. In fact, the stop also in Bologna and Florence extends the range of services, while the new layout of the timetable, in addition to allowing you to reach Rome from Venice in the morning with the Frecciarossa of 9:10, also guarantees better coverage of connections during the time between 9:10 am and 11:10 am. Finally, as for the Bologna-Padova line, I inform that, downstream of the realization of the High Speed Brewery Bologna-Venice, activated in December 2017, the capacity of the current infrastructure is suitable to support the model of operation in the medium term. Moreover I recall that this line is the subject of a total technological upgrade - with an investment of 160 million euros entirely financed - that it will involve the renewal of all the apparatuses of the stations and the realization of a central computerized multistation, with the objective to guarantee a more effective management of the traffic and an increase of the regularity of the service. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u83	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government representative for his reply. A figure emerges: the city of Venice, a UNESCO heritage site, a city known in the world, suffers in particular not so much from the connections with the capital, because during the day there are connections, but rather for a certain type of tourism, as it emerges also in the various reports of UNESCO. That train on which we put our attention gave the opportunity to raise the quality of this tourism, being a direct train, without any stop neither in Bologna nor in Florence, and structured in such a way as to avoid bites and escapes, because it left Venice at 6 and returned from Rome in the evening. So it wasn't available for that kind of tourism that for Venice is the worst thing, that is to arrive in the morning and leave in the evening. Could it be that, instead of supporting such an operation and instead of helping a city that suffers that kind of tourism, Trenitalia, also endorsed by the Government (as far as I understand from the answer to the question), confirms the elimination of a train that may have been expensive, but was it an investment to help the infrastructure of the city of Venice? On the other hand, I am very positive about the interventions that will be carried out for 160 million euros, which I believe are part of the plan and care of the iron of the then minister Delrio, because it is absurd that from Venice to Rome, on the main guidelines of high capacity, that piece from Bologna to Padua is not enough to withstand a high speed. Of course, it is useful to make trains travel (there would be more), but not with those settings as happens on other routes, from Salerno to Milan. I am, therefore, partially satisfied with the infrastructure part relating to the track; I remember that these funds came from the past and that we wanted them. Instead, I am dissatisfied because the Government does not understand the need to help the city of Venice, which suffers from those particular characteristics that I have exposed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u84	Following is the question 3-00724 on the criticalities present in the railway station of Salerno. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u85	Mr President, the railway station in Salerno has two subways for access from the square to the sidewalks of track: the underpass Naples side, more recently built, connects the atrium with the sidewalks at the service of all the tracks and has a short flight of stairs accessing from the atrium; the Sapri side allows access to the first three tracks, has no architectural barriers and is equipped with lifts for access to the sidewalks. In this regard, the Italian Railway Network (RFI) reports that it plans to extend the Sapri side underpass to the Cittadella Giudicia, with the simultaneous realization of lifts for the further tracks, i.e. from the 4th onwards. More specifically, about the access of persons with reduced mobility (PRM) who must use trains scheduled for departure or arrival on the tracks from the 4th onwards, is guaranteed with the ad hoc positioning of the train on the first 3 tracks, based on the information taken care of by the dedicated assistance circuit Sala Blu.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u88	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government and welcome the reply. The city of Salerno is the second of Campania for number of inhabitants and for strategic commercial and tourist importance. My question is aimed at ensuring that the many users of the railway station of Salerno are guaranteed and offered all the services and utilities that belong to a railway junction of great importance, such as that of Salerno. Since Ferrovie dello Stato has undertaken to carry out the required and planned work, we trust and hope that they will be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u89	The following is question 3/200407 on the management of Enna's water service. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u90	Mr President, with regard to the issues raised, it must first be pointed out that the burden of control and verification on the proper provision of the integrated water service in terms of quality and safety, as well as the fulfilment of contractual and supply obligations, is at the head of the ATO 5 Enna's governing body, which, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, has the right to access and verify water infrastructure and, in the event of failure of the operator, intervenes promptly to ensure compliance by the ATO 5 Enna, exercising all the powers conferred on it by the provisions of law and by the Convention. By continuing the failure of the manager and without prejudice to the consequent penalties at his expense, as well as the power of resolution and revocation, the governing body of the field, after warning, can replace it by ensuring that the works are carried out by third parties. Moreover, it is recalled that the Authority for Electricity and Gas (now ARERA) has been transferred the functions of regulation and control of water services, which are exercised in order to ensure the promotion of competition and efficiency in the field of public utility services, as well as adequate levels of quality in the services under conditions of economicity and profitability. Without prejudice to the above, on the basis of the information acquired by the directly competent entities, it is represented that the programming of the interventions provided for in the 2004 Convention with which the ATO 5 Enna entrusted the management of the water service to Acquaenna, has been carried out on the basis of the information provided by the framework plan placed on the basis of the invitation to tender, updated through the preparation of a specific study on the state of the existing networks and plants. Moreover, regarding the activity carried out by the ARERA in the exercise of its competences, it is noted that with the resolution of 22 June 2017 of approval of the tariff predispositions for the period 2016-2019, proposed by the Consortium ATO 5 Enna, the same Authority had evidenced that the Consortium had in turn found specific criticalities on its territory, against which the Government Authority of field has identified the main specific objectives of the planning. In view of the specific objectives represented, the consortium has planned, for the period 2016-2019, the following operations considered priority: renovation of sections of the pipes of adduction and renovation of the wells and the raising stations; renovation of sections of the urban water network of distribution and restructuring of the tanks; replacement of the user meters; construction and renewal of the sewage collectors; construction and upgrading of the sewage lifts; upgrading of the purification plants. In this regard, the Regulatory Authority for Energy Networks and Environment (ARERA) had reserved the right to verify the actual implementation of the planned investments, also taking into account the effective availability of public contributions for the second regulatory period. Consequently, with a resolution of 2 April 2019, the Authority has concluded, with reference to the biennium 2018-2019, the procedure of verifying the update of the acts that compose the specific tariff regulatory scheme proposed by the consortium ATO 5 Enna for the manager Acquaenna, approving it with some clarifications and prescriptions. From the same documentation it has turned out, however, that the modalities of transposition of the obligations of technical quality, in the context of the update of the specific regulatory scheme, can allow a strengthening of the process of rehabilitation and modernization of the water infrastructures relative to the manager Acquaenna. At the same time, against the objectives of technical quality of the water service set by the same Regulatory Authority with the resolution of 2017, additional investments have been planned, for the years 2018 and 2019, compared to those foreseen in the first tariff preparation, in fact re-determining (increasing) the value of the relationship between the investment needs for the 2016-2019 four-year period and the existing infrastructures. With reference to the difficulties in carrying out part of the investments planned for 2014 and 2015, the verifications carried out by the Authority have established a deviation between the increase in the value of the fixed assets resulting from the accounting sources and the total planned needs for the four years 2014-2017. The competent entity has motivated this deviation mainly with the delays in the authorisation procedures, as well as with the need for re-approval or in certain cases of re-design of interventions following the implementation of the forecasts of the new Procurement Code. It has however specified, on 21 March 2019, that some of the aforementioned criticalities have been overcome in part, communicating the state of progress works of some interventions that are currently being realized. In order to ensure the correct application of the regulation and taking into account the delays in the implementation of the interventions planned for the period 2014-2017, the Regulatory Authority has considered it necessary to request the consortium ATO 5 Enna to monitor the recovery, by 2019, of the investments planned for the period 2014-2017 and not yet realized, transmitting to the Authority - by 31 December 2019 - a special report detailing the interventions carried out by Acquaenna and the corresponding quantification of the expenditure incurred for the investments, as well as to oversee the effectiveness of the investments identified in the program of the interventions in order to contain, both the water losses, and the episodes of interruption of the service, in consideration of the above mentioned structural problem of maintenance of the continuity of the service. As regards, however, Siciliacque SpA, the Authority carried out an inspection on 29 and 30 January last, and the related results are currently being examined by the Authority's offices. With reference to the Bonario agreement of June 25, 2015, the Sicilian Region has pointed out that the manager has made the payment of the last installment and, therefore, the position relative to the concession fee is in line with the provisions of the original management agreement and the one updated as a result of the provisions issued by the ARERA. Finally, as regards - and I conclude - 18 agglomerations in infringement proceedings, 3 agglomerations are expected to comply with Directive 91/271/EEC by 2019, 6 agglomerations by 2020 and the remaining 9 agglomerations beyond 2020. Finally, it should be noted that for the Sicilian Region the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, within the framework of the Environmental Operational Plan, financed by the Fund for Development and Cohesion (FSC 2014-2020), has allocated an amount of more than 12 million euros for the realization of interventions in the sewage and purification sector, aimed at overcoming the infringement procedures on urban waste water, with absolute priority for the supplementary reasoned opinion mentioned above.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u93	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, I am pleased with the answer, from which I can see the causes of atavic disservices by the manager of the Acquaenna Integrated Water Service, which has already been pointed out with a number of inspections presented at various institutional levels. I would like to take this opportunity to inform this House and the Government that, during the months that have passed since the submission of my question, users of the province of Enna have suffered further inconveniences, such as the posting of hundreds of meters without any notice, repeated suspensions of the service and the recurring supply of cloudy water. The most serious fact that has marked the urban centers of the Ennese, showing the ferocious face of a system that governs, in fact, without the need of electoral consent, is however constituted by the poor execution of the works of maintenance and adaptation of the water net and of the systems, with spoiled roads, holes patched badly, commercial premises invaded by sewage and structural collapses of roads and buildings. Appreciating with pleasure that the Authority of regulation for energy networks and environment, carried out the necessary controls, has found a deviation between the increase of the value of the fixed assets resulting from the accounting sources and the total requirements planned for the four years 2014-2017 and, for this reason, has called the manager Acquaenna to comply with precise requirements. However, it seems clear that - to date - the management of the water service in the Ennese, perfect representation of a political-economical-customer system, does not respect any criterion of effectiveness, efficiency and economicity, also considering the alarming figure of the percentage of water dispersion from the plants, equal to 48.8 percent. In order to overcome the critical issues that have emerged, I think it is therefore necessary to have proper and real control by the ATO 5 Enna consortium. The lack of controls in the management of the water service was also reported by the then President of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones, Rosy Bindi during the press conference held in Enna in November 2016, at the conclusion of the mission to Sicily of the Commission she presided over. She, in focusing on the aspects of private water management, considered it necessary to deepen what was happening in the province of Enna, suggesting to the control bodies, in particular the ATI chaired by the mayor of Enna, to pay particular attention to the corporate composition of Acquaenna and the quality of the water service. It is clear that a first verification of the recovery of the investments planned for the period 2014-2017 and not yet realized will be able to be only in the aftermath of the report that the consortium of field will have to present to ARERA by 31 December 2019. Precisely for this reason, I will ensure that Acquaenna carries out within that date what is required, in order to remedy the deviation between the planned interventions and the corresponding expenditure imposed on the users. Only through the realization of these works will it be possible to contain the water losses and the continuous interruptions of the service and to reach a reduction of the tariff, which is now extremely and unjustifiedly expensive for the citizens of the Ennese. It is in fact unacceptable that, at the very moment when the Government is working on the proposal for a law on the public management of the integrated water cycle, in order not to give in to pressure from private individuals and complying with the will expressed in the 2011 referendum by 27 million Italians and at the time when the European Parliament is working on the proposal for a directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption, in Sicily we continue to live a situation at the limits of sustainability, which puts at risk the very safety of citizens, violating the fundamental right of access to water, which cannot be subject to economic, social or other considerations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u94	Following is the question 3-00492 on the conversion project of part of the Enel Ettore Majorana plant in Termini Imerese, in the province of Palermo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u95	With regard to the questions raised, it should first be pointed out that ENEL has initiated a sales procedure for the thermal power plant area, relating to structures which are no longer functional for the production of electricity, for a subsequent redevelopment of the power plant. On the basis of the information acquired, the potential buyer of the tanks and the marine terminal was identified through a competitive procedure entrusted to an external consultancy company. The procedure, started in 2015, involved about 70 companies operating in the reference production sector. This procedure, for the identification of a redevelopment project, was shared by ENEL with the municipal administration. The winner, Cancascì Petroli Srl, presented an industrial project for the transformation, storage and marketing of biofuels, providing for the functional recovery of tanks and pier, with related renovation works. Cancascì Petroli (which will subsequently be incorporated into Levantoil Srl) is a company that operates mainly in the field of trade in petroleum products and related products, in particular fuels, LPG, lubricants, gas in cylinders and similar. The project involves the construction of a blending plant for the addition of biodiesel in diesel. The plant will initially be used to mix a quantity of biodiesel ranging from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent, and will be prepared for mixing in larger percentages. Moreover, according to the Ministry of Economic Development, the possibility to reuse a brown field for the realization of the project would avoid the construction in green field, with consequent consumption of new soil, thus reflecting the principles of circular economy. The Ministry itself has, moreover, pointed out that the project, due to its industrial characteristics, is homogeneous with respect to the surrounding context, finding a location between a thermoelectric power plant and a metal-mechanical production plant. In the light of the foregoing considerations, ENEL had therefore requested from the Municipality of Termini Imerese a preliminary opinion on the division of the area deemed necessary for the subsequent redevelopment. In July 2017, the Municipality of Termini Imerese expressed itself negatively. The company challenged the said negative opinion-provision before the TAR Sicily of Palermo requesting its annulment, subject to suspension of its effectiveness. On 26 March 2018, the TAR rejected the precautionary request to suspend the requested measure proposed by ENEL, justifying the refusal on the basis of the non-formal submission to the Municipality of the investor's project. Therefore, on June 25, 2018, the company transmitted to the Municipality of Termini Imerese a new request for prior verification of the compatibility of the division of the area of the coastal deposit with the urbanistic instrument, attaching the preliminary draft of transformation drawn up by the company Levantoil. On 30 July 2018, the Municipality communicated to Enel a second negative opinion on the request for the division of the industrial area, arguing that the transformation project proposed by the company is mainly a commercial project, as such incompatible with the urban planning tool and the industrial destination of the areas in question. On 24 October 2018, Enel appealed against the second negative opinion-provision issued by the Municipality of Termini Imerese for reasons added before the TAR, requesting its annulment, subject to suspension. On 7 December 2018, the chamber hearing was held for the treatment of the precautionary request for suspension of the measure. In this connection, the TAR did not decide to refer the debate back to the substance, which was scheduled for 5 February. I'll come to the conclusion. As a result, all administrative aspects, also of urban and environmental nature, will be able to have adequate evaluation in the administrative procedure of the Sicilian Region, which will be activated when the project of conversion of the limited area of the site will be formally presented. In this regard, the Region has communicated that to date no request has been received from the Municipality relative to the eventual change of urban destination of the area in which the Ettore Majorana plant falls and that no project results to the acts of the regional offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u98	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say that I am satisfied with this answer, which is limited to an excursus which, alas, we know. I would have liked a vision from Minister Costa and also an opinion on the goodness of the project. Termini Imerese, unfortunately, is not only FIAT crisis, today Blutec crisis; it is also a charming gulf as few: the thermal baths, the ancient Himera, synthesized in its name. A territory in which, however, for years the citizens have paid a very expensive price in terms of health as a result of the choices of heavy industry pursued, but also in terms of social and economic crisis, due to the failure of the choices made; and still of environmental crisis, which faces today in terms of the health of the environment, environmental impact, to which are added difficulties in the management of waste and the relaunch of the spa, its sea and its tourism development. The citizens of Termini Imerese want, to redeem their territory, and to do this they no longer want to insist on decisions and choices not to safeguard the territory and its environment and then try to recover the damage done. Enel's Futur-E project could have been - I still hope it could be - an excellent starting point, if it were not for the implications that at Termini itself is having the plan to invest once again in hydrocarbons, with the consequences that such a choice can cause. I say "may" because even today, even more so, instead of deciding to sell a portion of its power plant to private individuals with methods of selection not to public evidence, and therefore questionable, obstinating on the same choices of the past and investing in an already antihistorical sector, as well as of high environmental impact (that of hydrocarbons, which is also the cause of the crises of Gela and Augusta), it would be desirable for Enel SpA to relaunch, investing in this territory where for decades it has operated, perhaps with projects that can combine development, the search for natural and renewable energies and the creation of jobs, as it did in Catania. And, why not, on projects of cultural scope and revitalization of the territory and really futuristic. This would make the Termini Imerese pole, today a complex crisis area, a symbol of attention to the environment and the creation of jobs through eco-friendly choices that look to the future. To do this, it can only take due account of the will of the community, of the local population who for so many years has seen the health of the environment in which it lived subject to economic and industrial logics, to untransparent interests. So, regardless of the judicial procedure and the decisions Enel will take, I really hope that there can be a strong link with Enel SpA, but also with the territory, which signed a petition with 6,000 signatures so that this project can be revised. To this end, I personally make myself available to any intercourse, including with the Minister, who may not have focused the problem of my question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u99	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u102	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I take this opportunity to highlight a very serious risk which can characterize the right to air mobility in Abruzzo, but not only in Abruzzo, to Milan Linate airport. We rely on this possibility of aerial connection from Abruzzo, but also in favor of Molise, the Marches, the North of Puglia and also the territories of Lazio, which can look with more interest to Abruzzo for a connection to the rest of Europe. Today we spend an hour and nine minutes making 516 kilometers, since there is currently no other possibility of fast connectivity than that of the airport, which allows us, through the hub of Milan, to reach the long European distances. Our airport is included in the National Plan for the development of the airport referred to in decree of the President of the Republic n. 201 of 2015. It is an airport of national interest and we are running the risk that you will cancel the connection, through Alitalia, Pescara-Milano Linate. There is a need to recognize value to the 3347 annual air movements from Pescara to this destination and, through this destination, to the world. 667,000 passengers: until May we had an estimated increase in 263,000. Therefore, there will also be growth in relation to the air density of the past year. The cost is 15,000 euros per day for Alitalia and, in the state, is in perfect balance. It is known that the air connection has a social economic value equal to twelve times what you invest. I will conclude with a notation. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in Article 20 provides for European citizenship. And European citizenship specifies some fundamental rights, including the right to movement and movement. Abruzzo, with the basin of its quadrilateral, would lose the only possibility to travel long distances, also because the railway tracks today are not competitive. I hope that the Minister for Transport, through his evidence, will be able to deal with this by ensuring that this connection is covered in Alitalia's industrial plan. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u105	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, I am taking the floor today to stigmatize an event that took place on Tuesday. There was a conference, at the seminary building, entitled "The witness of justice." Contrast to the mafias: from loneliness to sharing, and a witness of justice, Pino Mascari, was prevented from attending the conference. There seems to have been a misunderstanding about how to credit the event. We will take some information on this, but we think it is really serious that, at a conference in which we speak of witnesses of justice, an important witness of justice such as Pino Mascari is not allowed to participate. Pino Mascari is a witness who has allowed to discover the interweavings between organized crime and political collusion in Calabria. He is a witness who, in recent years, has brought his voice and his experience around Italy all over. We believe that his testimony is important and must always and in any case be valued and kept in due consideration. For this reason, we hope that it will be clarified as soon as possible why he has not been allowed to attend the conference and that, if necessary, an apology will be presented to him: on behalf of myself and of all the Piedmontese Members who know him and who, in recent years, have had the opportunity to appreciate his testimony and his integrity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u106	I suspend our work, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 12.55 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u107	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Defence will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Laforgia has the right to explain the question 3-01029 on the conduct of comparisons with the social partners at the Ministry of the Interior, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u108	Mr President, we have only learned in these minutes that Mr Di Maio will not be here to answer our questions. It is a pity because, in particular, our question was addressed to him. It had and has a lot to do with the state of health of this government, which the Minister seems to be dealing with in the last hours and indeed in the last few minutes. If the government were also doing a truth operation and coming to Parliament to tell us parliamentarians what is going on, we would be very grateful to its members. In any case, we could have used this space - as is usually the case - to ask Minister Di Maio for specific elements concerning dossiers that he says he is dealing with and of which he says he wants to occupy himself. I am thinking of the many business crisis tables, which seem to have increased from 148 in recent months - as the Minister himself said in the middle of last year - to more than 160, although there is no definite number. We could have used this space to ask him - for example - some more specific information concerning very delicate events such as Alitalia, Ilva and the whole chain of companies that are currently in great difficulty. We are talking about more than 200,000 workers who are at risk of losing their jobs. There is, however, one thing that comes first of all, and it is not just an institutional matter of grammar. We would have liked to ask Minister Di Maio with what operation he intends to bring back a centrality with respect to the ministries he presides. And I am talking about that centrality that you have lost in your relationship with the social partners. As far as irritality is concerned, we realize that this question is somewhat irrational, but what happened a few days ago, namely the fact that the Minister of the Interior, that is, the one who should have and should have dealt with national security, the Carabinieri, the Police, the fight against crime and the Mafia, calls 43 trade unions and representatives of interests and, in front of those initials, even advances the contents of the maneuver, is not only an institutional breakdown, but also gives the idea that the Ministries chaired by Minister Di Maio are losing their centrality in their relationship with the social partners. We would therefore like to understand whether, in the most delicate passage of a government's life, what is before and then of course what leads to the approval of the budget law, this centrality and this institutional grammar can be restored. And we would very much like to know - at this point we will listen to the Minister - what actions will be taken to make this happen. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u109	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u110	Mr President, Senators, I answer the question put by the interrogators on the basis of the information provided by Minister Di Maio, who is unable to participate. I would remind you that this government has since the beginning valued the centrality and importance of the relationship with stakeholders, whether entrepreneurs, social partners or ordinary citizens with any specific or widespread interest. With regard to the specific facts recalled by the interrogators and as far as the direct competence of Minister Di Maio is concerned, it is evident that all the crisis tables have been managed with great commitment - as evidenced also the priority recognized to the reorganization of the central administration of the Ministry of Economic Development - with the allocation of a specific role to an office at the Directorate-General for Industrial Policy, Competitiveness and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, dedicated precisely to the crisis of enterprise. This structure is also being implemented from the point of view of staff units and will become more and more ready to welcome the call for meetings and exchanges between politics, social partners and workers. With regard to crisis tables, it is worth remembering that their institution must be requested by trade unions or even by property. In this regard, in virtue of the great attention given by the Minister Di Maio to the topic, it is evident that at his Dicasteries tables are often held on general crises not resolved on the territory; following the request, we proceed with the investigation by the offices for the best and complete collection of all the useful elements and finally we proceed to the convocation of all the parties involved, without any exclusion. It should also be stressed that the desire to imprint all government action with maximum transparency and dialogue, even outside the perimeter of the majority, in order to gather effective proposals, is demonstrated by the opening of the dispute resolution tables to the parliamentarians of all political groups. During this first year of work, the discussion was never interrupted and exchanges, institutional meetings, joint evaluation and cross-referenced reflections were always constant to accommodate the demands of all. The timing and arrangements for meeting, consultation and consultation are clear in the work of Minister Di Maio. As the President-in-Office of the Council has also said, the initiatives pursued by individual, albeit legitimate, forces cannot replace the needs of a table in which all the representatives of the Government sit and which is the only seat able to guarantee the full and respectful contradiction between all parties. Minister Di Maio remains available, however, in the Ministries he directs, to constructive dialogue with everyone, but always respecting institutional dynamics, which are a unique guarantee of transparency and good governance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u111	I give the floor to Senator Laforgia to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u112	Mr President, speaking of lost opportunities, I have missed the opportunity to address my question to Mr Di Maio personally and directly. Of course, Minister Fraccaro will be so diligent as to report to Minister Di Maio the meaning of our act of inspection union. However, I would have liked to ask him a question in particular, namely why he went against the wrong target on the occasion of the affair I referred to. Having taken it out on the trade unions meant exactly that, that is to say, to find a wrong target, when instead we should get out of the season of disintermediation, since it seems to me that we have not yet got out of it. I pronunciation bad words, bad words - the season of disintermediation - that have been used very often and refer to the idea that the unions are a little awkward in the relationship between those who govern and the citizens. Instead, we should call all interest representatives to a collective process of innovation and democratisation. I think, therefore, that we should change the language, find new practices and answer a question asked not only by the trade unions and by us parliamentarians, but also by the citizens of this and of the other countries that are watching us: but how many governments in this legislature? How many governments are running at the same time? This is all the more necessary in the last hours of this government's de facto crisis. To answer this question would mean to do a service not only to us parliamentarians, but also to the citizens of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u113	Senator Urso has the right to explain the question 3-01028 on the pension treatment of trade union representatives, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u114	Kind and courteous Minister Luigi Di Maio, Minister for Labour, Minister for Economic Development, Vice President of the Council, Political Head of the Movimento 5 Stars, I don't see her in that chair. Let's talk about chairs. A year ago, on 2 August, we presented this House with a question to ask you, Mr Di Maio, if you were going to eliminate a privilege, one of the most serious, unqualifiable privileges still existing: that of the gold pensions of trade unionists. She made some very firm and harsh statements a year ago in that sitting, accepting our invitation. You, Minister Di Maio, said there that this privilege had to be eliminated, as provided, among other things, in the government contract. He said that he would act immediately, in a decisive way - I read his words - to prevent these privileges from being maintained. That was a year ago. Anomalous and substantial increases are not acceptable (...) in such a short period of time. You, Mr Di Maio, said a year ago that this is a damage to public finances and citizens' taxes. You, Minister Di Maio, have repeated the same things many times in the TV talk shows and in the tweets of the Movimento 5 Stars and in January this year your Group, the Movimento 5 Stars Group, tabled an amendment to the decree of dignity to eliminate this shameful privilege; that amendment was then withdrawn. Usually, when a majority group withdraws an amendment, it is because the Minister of Reference has urged it to do so; in this case you, Minister Di Maio. Well, a year later, in this question time, we ask you why you have withdrawn the amendment to your Group; because in a year of time you have not been able to eliminate this privilege, even though a year ago we pointed out that a circular of your Ministry would have sufficed, as the then President Boeri said, over a year ago; although we pointed out to you that even the author of that rule of law, Tiziano Treu, had denounced the distortion of that mechanism, which led the unions to realize to their acolytes a privileged system, which in fact increases the pension attributed to them, as denounced by the Court of Auditors; and even though, in the meantime, the main Italian union, the CGIL, had urged you to issue the measure, at least as circular. But you, as much as you speak with words, as little with actions. Why didn't you do it in a year? What conceals your tacit and sudden silence and your escape from the Parliamentary Assembly? [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u115	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u116	Mr President, Senators, I answer the question put by the interrogators on the basis of the information provided by Minister Di Maio, who is unable to participate. With regard to the subject covered by the question, it should first of all be noted that, with this Government, the issue of combating inequalities and the recognition of equal rights among all citizens has finally become concrete. The decree of dignity, the income of citizenship and quota 100 are epochal measures, supported by a single aim: to fight precariousness, full support for those who have the greatest difficulties and overcome all forms of inequality. In responding to the specific question posed by the interrogators, the will to overcome those which, to all intents and purposes, represent unacceptable privileges and, therefore, eliminate the unequal treatment between trade unionists and workers is confirmed. In particular, it should be specified that the differences in treatment do not derive from paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 3 of Legislative Decree No 564 of 1996, which merely provides for the possibility for the trade union organisation to pay additional contributions, but rather from the social security management of reference and the calculation system adopted. In particular, disparities occur in cases where there is an A share of pension (i.e. workers with contributions up to 31 December 1992), determined on a reduced reference period and on pensionable earnings that are different from compulsory general insurance, such as for civil servants. In this case, in fact, the quota A is determined on the last salary and therefore on the fixed and continuous remuneration, net of the productivity perceived during that period. In this perspective, therefore, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in collaboration with the INPS, is developing technical details to reform this subject, with the aim of achieving this reform in a short time. Far from showing perplexity and hesitation, the Government continues with the utmost determination on this path, with the full will to carry out the important reforms that previous governments have not been able to carry out. I am therefore telling you that this Government will soon, very quickly, eliminate this umpteenth privilege as well. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u117	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u118	Mr President, the words of Mr Di Maio's deputy are exactly what Mr Di Maio said a year ago in this House; a year does not seem to me to be a short time. And the arguments that you brought are exactly what I explained a year ago in the question; you respond to my words in this House a year ago. We expected more from the Government of Change, which is transforming into the Government of Restoration. We expected something more, especially in the light of the fact that in these hours 5.6 million Italian pensioners have seen their retirement expectations reduced; 5.6 million pensioners, who receive a gross pension of 1,522 euros (1,200 euros net), have seen their pension expectations reduced. In the face of this, after a year you say that you will provide immediately. A provision of Brothers of Italy has been incardinated in the Chamber on this subject; it is sufficient that you receive our provision in the Chamber and realize what we asked you to accomplish a year ago. We believe that this is necessary and we think that this could have been done at this juncture. You do not tell me why the amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars was inopportunely withdrawn. Who asked you to withdraw it, since you presented it in January of this year? You do not basically say how you will do it and when you will do it, since you yourself here today make us understand that a circular is enough. Boeri said in 2017, a year and a half ago, that a circular is enough. You've also taken over the INPS, but the system has remained the same as the previous one. You haven't changed anything. Your absence today is emblematic, Minister Di Maio; it is emblematic of the state in which this Government is based. We regret to think that perhaps it will not have time to say what still today, through Minister Fraccaro, has reaffirmed to be a promise. Perhaps his absence is emblematic. Perhaps, for the umpteenth time, it shows what this Government really is: the Government of Restoration. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u119	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 3-01031 on the current situation of company crisis tables, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u120	Mr President, first of all, I greet Mr Fraccaro-Di Maio. Speaking of corporate crises, we will ask specific questions to which I hope to receive equally precise and precise answers. I would like to know what, Minister, is the official number of business crisis tables opened at the Ministry of Labour and Economic Development; the total number of workers and workers involved, including those in the pipeline; what is the state of crisis resolution, including crises that have not been concluded; how many requests have been received from the Ministry of Economic Development during the last year with a request for the opening of crisis tables. That's why question time is useful. On 8 July 2018, exactly a year ago, in the Chamber of Deputies, the economic development minister Di Maio, responding to the urgent information on the state of crisis tables opened at the Ministry of Economic Development, said that there were 144 on 30 June 2018 and that 189,000 workers and workers were involved. After a year there is no up-to-date and official list of currently open crisis tables and we are very concerned. From the news we learn from trade union sources and press organizations, today there are 158 tables open to the Ministry of Economic Development and would involve 210,000 workers and workers; instead there would be 180, according to Minister Salvini at a recent summit at the Viminale with the trade associations. Unfortunately, today's INPS data on the total number of hours of cash integration allowed: about 27.6 million, rising in June by 42.6 percent compared to the same month of 2018, with a boom, unfortunately, of the hours of cash integration extraordinary that has even increased by 99.8 percent compared to the same month last year. Yet, the minister Di Maio during that information to the House of a year ago had given many assurances regarding the crises Bekaert, Comdata, the Whirlpool of Naples and then we all know of the events of the Ilva of Taranto. Crisis management has been rather ambiguous and superficial; we are also concerned about the management of active policies, with the suspension of the relocation contract for New Employment Social Insurance (NASPI) recipients and the unemployed. Finally, Minister, it is because of our concern that we ask you for transparency on the paths of the crisis tables that - as you mentioned earlier - open up, but close if there is the intention to do so. Above all we would like to know with which biting Minister Di Maio frequently monitors open crisis tables. In conclusion, it turns out to us that the Minister is often absent from the crisis tables and, in front of corporate managers, investors and representatives of the workers, we need responsibility, institutional presence and authority, technical skills, for the good of our workers, our communities and for the productive development of our country. I still hope for a precise answer from the Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u121	Mr President, Senators, I would like to answer the question put by the questioners on the basis of the information provided by Mr Di Maio, who was unable to participate. As is well known, over the last decade our economic system has progressively experienced a loss of competitiveness, to which this Government is trying to cope with important measures, such as unblocking yards and the decree growth, recently converted into law. With reference to the trade union act in question, as a preliminary point, I would like to give some clarification with regard to the statements contained in the premises of the question. On the Bekaert crisis, whose last table was held just yesterday 17 July, I represent that during these months a preparatory path has been started to identify investors interested in reindustrializing the website of Figline Valdarno. Just to promote this path, last year the instrument of the Cassa Integrazione Earnings extraordinary for cessation of the productive activity, instrument that had been abolished with the jobs act has been reintroduced. With regard to the Comdata crisis, following the activation of the table at the Ministries of Labour and Economic Development, we have also focused on the general criticalities of call centers, implementing a series of measures that allow the protection of the workers involved, avoiding the application of NASPI legislation to them. Coming to the specific questions asked, it is specified that today there is a work of reconnaissance on all the permanent tables, meaning for such those active already several months. The method of counting the same used in the past, following an in-depth analysis carried out in recent months, has proved to be incomplete and contradictory. It should also be noted that the calls between June and July 2019 were 33 and not 14, as indicated in the question. To the convocations of these tables, also presided over by Minister Di Maio, are added those for the tables held at the Ministry of Labour, as well as the meetings and meetings preparatory to the management of disputes. Moreover, it should be specified that many of the further disputes relate to events which, although previously considered to have been resolved following an agreement, had not been fully defined in reality, as the terms of the agreements entered into have been disregarded or had no solid basis. As regards the way in which crisis tables are set up - as is well known - it is stated that they are generally activated at the request of trade unions and/or property organisations. Moreover, lately the Ministry of Economic Development is also often taking charge of requests relating to regional crisis tables not resolved on the territory by the crisis units constituted at the regional institution itself. Once the request has been received, a direct inquiry is started to analyze the case, also through direct interlocations with the trade unions and the companies involved, and then proceed to the convocation of the parties. In order to increase transparency, Minister Di Maio, unlike the previous Ministers, predicted that the tables convened would also be open to parliamentarians from all political groups, who had been previously excluded. The Minister for Economic Development, therefore, will continue to resolve and follow with the utmost commitment and in any case in the appropriate time all disputes to ensure business continuity and safeguard workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u122	I give the floor to Senator Margiotta to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u123	I understand the difficulty and embarrassment of Minister Fraccaro, who must make today the successor of Minister Di Maio in reading the speech prepared by the Ministry: he has all the solidarity and human understanding of the Democratic Party. However, Minister, the numbers are stubborn arguments and the numbers listed a moment ago by my relative speak clearly, but there is more. If what Mrs Parente said was not enough, I will refer to the numbers (180 crises) recalled by Vice President Salvini, for once again at the Viminale, although generally everywhere: we have discovered that he is often in Moscow, almost never in his office, less in the Senate to answer our questions about Russian friends and funds. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On Monday he was at the Viminale, even if not to do his job, but to do something hybrid between President Conte and Minister Di Maio, even if he would not like this definition. But let's go back to the numbers, which attest incontrovertibly that the tables of crisis have increased, the workers at risk, the hours of Cassa Integrazione. I have human understanding for Minister Di Maio, rectius I should say I had human understanding, because the vulgarity spoken between yesterday and today on the Democratic Party, my community, will eliminate all forms of human understanding and sympathy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He chose to assume on himself two very heavy delegations, economic development and work: I don't know if he did it out of recklessness or arrogance or simply out of candid naivety. Perhaps he wanted to prove that he was able to solve problems and crises, create jobs, be better than his predecessors. Well, if you wanted to do this, the result is absolutely bankrupt, and I'm not just talking about numbers: Whirlpool; Marketer One; Ilva again at risk; the unqualifiable ballet on Alitalia, with Atlantia that, every other day, passes from being the absolute evil to Saviour of the Homeland. Who knows if in September we will still have the fuel to take off Alitalia's planes. Other than a beautiful year: 2019 is an annus horribilis for its Government, for its party and, above all, for the country. Other than the abolition of poverty. The income of citizenship did not work, and I conclude: restricted audience, insufficient amounts, increased integration fund, no solution to precariousness. You were expecting a triumphant march. It is a total Waterloo and unfortunately the Italians are the victims. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u124	Senator Bagnai has the right to explain the question 3-01032 on the implementation of the cooperative credit reform, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u125	Minister, thank you for your willingness to dialogue with Parliament, and I would like to briefly explain the question. It is in the context of the reform of the cooperative credit arranged by Decree-Law No. 18 of 14 February 2016, the so-called self-form of the sector, on which this majority intervened on several occasions to correct some potential criticalities that the League had proposed to deepen, asking for a moratorium in May 2018. This request went unheard, because prior to the formation of the current Government. We have therefore found ourselves operating on a process that has now begun, which we have tried to accompany, even with our perplexities, in order to comply responsibly with the principle of the protection of savings provided for by Article 47 of the Constitution. However, a number of issues remain open, including respect for another constitutionally guaranteed principle: the promotion of mutual cooperation without the purpose of private speculation, which Article 45 of the Constitution requires the legislator to have the necessary controls. In the case of cooperative banking groups, the radical innovation proposed by Decree-Law No 18, the control of the mutual character intersects with the issue of the protection of competition. In other words, it must be checked that the tax advantages enjoyed by the participating banks (directly linked to the favour of the legislator for the social function of cooperation) do not result, directly or indirectly, in a competitive advantage for parent companies which instead operate according to a traditional logic of maximizing profit. The legislative intervention provided by Article 20-b of Decree-Law no. 119 of 23 October 2018 (so-called tax decree) assigns to the Ministry of Economic Development the task of defining the modalities of this particular supervision, specifying its scope and the authorized entities. The relevant ministerial decree was expected on 31 March. Minister, we would be grateful if you would explain to us the government's guidelines on the content and timing of these measures of particular importance for an orderly development of the reform process. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u126	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u127	Mr President, Senators, I answer the question put by the interrogators on the basis of the information provided by Minister Di Maio, who is unable to participate. The act in question refers to the implementing decree provided for in Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 220 of 2 August 2002, which includes "vigilance on cooperative credit banks, mutual assistance companies and parent companies of cooperative banking groups," as reported in Article 20-b of Decree-Law No 119 of 23 October 2018, referred to by the Senator in question. This rule, in fact, provides that cooperative credit banks are subject to the rules on controls on cooperative institutions, limited to compliance with the provisions of Article 21 (3) of Law No 59 of 31 January 1992 and the rules on mutual relations and the functioning of social bodies. To this end, it is expected that, by decree to be adopted by 31 March 2019 (not peremptory, but authorising term), the Minister of Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, after consulting the Bank of Italy, will adopt provisions for the implementation of the aforementioned legislative provision, defining modalities, qualified entities and models of minutes. With regard to the question posed, the Ministry of Economic Development is completing the drafting of the draft decree in question, for the purpose of its transmission to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, for the concert, as well as to the Bank of Italy, for the opinion. Therefore, I inform you that in the next few days the measure will be subject to the signature of the Minister of Economic Development Luigi Di Maio, in order to complete the regulatory framework in this matter, in order to make more effective the role that mutual credit plays in the financing of the local economies. In general, I can assure you that this Government is showing extreme sensitivity to the case of cooperative credit and, in particular, to this act, precisely to ensure the mutual nature of cooperative credit, which had been threatened by the previous reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Bagnai to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u128	Minister, there are two minutes I can give you to reply and I will use them in the meantime to thank you for your report, for which I am pleased. It is extremely important for citizens to understand that legislative activity does not end at the time of the House, but there is a preparatory phase and a phase of implementation and maintenance of the rule on which you have fully reported to us. There are also two European manufacturing powers, Italy and Germany, which makes Germany our indispensable reference. There are also two Germanies: there is a Germany that wins because it knows how to team up, it knows how to make system, for example by protecting its territorial credit, for example by involving Parliament in the negotiations with Europe and from this Germany the majority has drawn and will draw example and inspiration as this dialogue shows; then there is a Germany that wins because it alters the rules to its advantage (there are also the billions of discount on the capital requirements that Deutsche Bank has just managed to obtain from the European Governor avoiding an increase in capital). Two are also the souls of the majority and this for me has always been and continues to be an element of wealth. One of these souls - the one to whom I had the privilege and the honour of making a contribution of ideas - believes that in the second Germany, the disloyal and arrogant one, it would be appropriate, when possible, or a courteous but firm one, not. I don't want the educators if I invade their field, but as a profane I continue to believe that there are occasions when a no, but even nine no, can have an educational value and help to grow. I would like to thank you again for the attention with which you are following this important reform and to renew it, in addition to my personal gratitude, the gratitude and willingness of the parliamentary body that I honour to preside over, in predicting and implementing the additional corrective measures that a reform born of a limp will inevitably make necessary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u129	Senator Malan has the right to explain the question 3-01033 on measures to protect the health of children who are victims of abuse, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u130	Minister of Health, recent events in the province of Reggio Emilia concerning children illegally taken away from their families so that they could benefit both the houses that give them hospitality (unlikely, in this case), and certain consultants and professionals with their well paid services, have shown that this was the result of a series of abuses or practical ills by a number of figures, including psychologists, psychologists, socio-health workers and public administrators. I would have expected more activism from the government than from a topic that I and others have denounced for years and that has finally been brought to the attention, thanks to the action of the judiciary, since there is always a great activism, especially at the level of communication, when it comes to problems that are not directly responsible for the state, while in this case they are structures of the state that kidnap children to their families. I hope that the speeches which have been very vaguely announced will be completed by the Minister of Justice. I would like to ask you, Minister for Health, what action you intend to take or have taken to protect the health of these children and also to give the National Health System an organisation that can prevent these cases as much as possible. In fact, we all who deal with these issues, of which we are now becoming increasingly aware, know that Reggio Emilia's is unfortunately not an isolated case, but it was a case in which finally some magistrates had the courage to take clear action, to take measures at a precautionary level even important, while not charging - for now, I hope - the most serious crime that involves this case, which is the kidnapping of a person. I wonder what action you intend to take to protect the health of these children after they have suffered the trauma and, if possible, to prevent others from suffering it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u131	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u132	Mr President, before answering, as far as I can, this question, I must first of all point out that the Government has found itself in a material impossibility to carry out a thorough investigation of the questions asked, since the act was transmitted to the offices of the Ministry of Health at 8 p.m. yesterday, and therefore well beyond the regulatory terms of the question time procedure. This delay, moreover, did not make it possible to point out, in the wake of the usual constructive dialectic between the Government and the Parliament, that on the question represented the competences of other ministries prevail over those of the Ministry of Health. It is no coincidence that the Minister of Justice has already addressed the issue to the Chamber of Deputies, who, after recalling that the network of social services concerns the full responsibility of territorial authorities, has focused on the well-known judicial implications connected with the very serious events in Reggio Emilia. In addition, Minister Bonafede informed, with regard to the regularity of the foster care procedures, that inspections under his responsibility have been initiated. It must also be said that the Government has already shown a particular sensitivity to the issues of the psychophysical integrity of children, arranging the commissioning of the cooperative .Il Forteto, which the previous majority had not had the courage to do. As far as I am concerned, I want to give the fullest assurance that the protection and promotion of the health of children and adolescents in relation to possible developmental disorders are objectives firmly pursued by the Ministry of Health. The theme is transversal and requires the positive synergy of associations, families, health professionals, but also and especially of the world of school, which is often the first to come into contact with the concerns of parents, with the stigma that can derive from it, as well as with the difficulties and anxieties of children suffering from disorders that can be confused as mental retardation and intellectual quotient, even if they do not turn out to be such. For these reasons, therefore, specific initiatives have been taken with the MIUR, in which I would like in particular to mention the recent setting up of a Joint Health-MIUR Committee, under the Memorandum of Understanding on Protection of the Right to Health, Study and Inclusion, with the specific task of strengthening initiatives aimed at promoting early detection, improvement of living conditions and school inclusion of people with neurodevelopment disorders, i.e. with specific learning disorders, including through targeted and individual programmes. These preventive actions are, therefore, the best response that the Ministry of Health can ensure in order to protect the health of our children, in a field that, as we have seen, is not free from the hypothesis of abuse, on which the Government, in its collegiality, as I said, has already clearly intervened. In any case, I assure you that I have already instructed my offices to ensure that the professional bodies in which the health professionals involved in the investigations are registered are able to take all appropriate measures to ascertain any ethical responsibilities, and severely sanction, where the conditions are met, the health professionals themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u133	I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u134	Mr Grillo, there are children who are proved to be seriously harmed in their health, and you are responsible for the Ministry of Health, which, by law, has to deal with the protection of health. I know very well - I read it - what Minister Bonafede said about the Ministry of Justice. I expected your action to protect the health of children, which is within the precise competence of your Ministry. Of course, schools must play their part, but there are other initiatives that can be put in place. I would have expected your proactive action towards certain subjects, although they are not directly dependent on the Ministry, in asking why they behaved; especially what is done with regard to children. I have heard only very general words; I have heard of other people's competences, even of some delay in the arrival of the question. Frankly, here we are talking about the fate, health and physical integrity of people - children in particular, but also their families - which is why I believe that we should be a little less bureaucratic and bring out the enthusiasm that comes out for the demagogic things that are done in the other sessions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u135	Senator Mininno has the right to explain the question 3-01010 on the evaluation procedures for the career advancement of military personnel, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u136	Minister, the advancement of military personnel is the complex of the authoritative procedures and the technical-administrative operations necessary for career progression. The bodies responsible for ensuring these procedures are the commissions of progress, which express the judgments on progress on the basis of the elements resulting from the personal documentation of the evaluation, taking into account all career records of the military. The personal documentation of the military consists of the matricular documents and the characteristic documents. The masculine documentation records for each military every element useful for the advancement, such as employment events, boarding, campaigns and military missions, criminal and disciplinary events, merits, honours and rewards acquired, specializations and patents, educational and cultural titles. The purpose of the characteristic documents is to record promptly the personal and direct judgement of the superiors on the services provided and the performance of the military, taking into account the skills and attitudes demonstrated and the results achieved. There is, now in a constant way, a dilation of the timing in the procedures of evaluation of the commissions of progress, that provokes delays even more than one year in the conferment of the promotions. These delays occur not only in the advancements of choice, for which the members of the commissions are required to give a vote for each of the categories of requirements provided for in Articles 1058 and 1059 of the Military Order Code, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 66 of 15 March 2010, but also in the advances for seniority for which the commission must express exclusively on the ability of the military to perform the functions of the higher grade. Articles 704 to 709 of the single text of the regulations on military law define the categories of requirements to be assessed, without establishing the criteria underlying the allocation of scores and leaving, in fact, maximum discretion to the commissions of progress. All this, in addition to generating considerable litigation, inevitably affects the morale of military personnel, resulting in an understandable motivational decline. It asks whether the Minister intends to intervene at both procedural level, in order to speed up the evaluation process, is regulatory, providing objective evaluation criteria with a view to total transparency in order to avoid that the discretion of the evaluations turns into abuse in the exercise of power. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u137	The Minister for Defence, Mr Trenta, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u138	Mr President, the procedures for advancing to the higher level of military personnel have a fundamental guarantee function for individuals and, above all, for the institution, since only the adoption of linear, objective and transparent evaluation criteria can ensure that the most capable are more responsible at the various levels. In setting out the policy lines of my Dicastery I said that it would be my intention to ensure that the promotions were based drastically on meritorious criteria and characterized by consistent timings, in line with the regulatory dictates and in line with the expectations of the staff. I have therefore asked for a point of view on this subject and I have therefore arranged for the establishment of an inter-force technical table to which I have given precise guidelines in order to seek the best solutions in this regard, opening immediately also to possible regulatory interventions. The guidelines on which we are working reflect some fundamental principles, first of all that of maximum transparency of the evaluation process, accompanied by a simultaneous reduction in administrative time. I also believe that it is not acceptable for the evaluations to be opened up in a context of absolute confidentiality. If the decision taken in advance is the best in every respect, the whole decision-making process must be able to be shared with all concerned equally. It is not acceptable for staff to have evidence of their promotion at a time significantly far from the date of legal and administrative start-up. In this particular respect, a computerised management system for individual processes is being developed, which will speed up the implementation of all administrative activities. Another aspect that I believe must be addressed immediately is that of uniformity of treatment between the categories of staff and among the members of the different Armed Forces, with the final objective of achieving further contractions in the litigation. It is also necessary to arrive at a standardisation of the evaluation processes and the results that these processes must ensure. The transparency and speed of these processes must necessarily be accompanied by the objectivity of the assessment criteria, which must constitute a reasonable limit to the discretion of the judgements. The rules of the game must be clear to everyone from the start to ensure maximum objectivity, in order to enhance the ability and professionalism of each. Therefore, I have given indications that effective and timely solutions can be found, including in terms of legislation, and I have asked the Defence Staff to propose, as soon as the matter requires, possible changes to the reference legislation, in particular to the code of the military order and the descending single text, in order to be able to intervene on matters such as rights such as, for example, the identification of criteria for the award of merit scores. In this way it will be possible to limit the discretion of the commissions, which cannot be excluded from the necessary objectivity, or to reduce it in a beehive of absolute transparency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u139	Senator Mininno has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u140	Mr Minister, it is clear from your answer that the problem is clear in all its aspects: the absence of clear and transparent objective evaluation criteria; the lack of uniformity of treatment between the various categories of military personnel between the various Armed Forces; excessively long deadlines in the procedures for progress. The establishment of a technical table within the Defence Staff is absolutely welcome, indicating the clear desire to seek the best solution to the problem, which - as I recall - is very much felt by military personnel and has a heavy impact on their motivation. On the part of this parliamentary majority there is certainly a commitment to speed up the process of approval of the bill for the simplification and rationalization of the legislation on incardinated military law in the Defence Commission, which will confer to the Government the delegation to proceed to the necessary regulatory innovation also in the matter of evaluation of military personnel. Therefore, I am also pleased on behalf of the other co-signatory senators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u141	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u144	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, I have asked to speak at this final stage of the work to draw the attention of this House to yet another tragic accident on the road 682 Ionian-Tirreno, also known as the Great Road Ionian-Tirreno communication, which connects the two sides of Calabria in the province of Reggio Calabria. The balance of the violent clash between two cars, which occurred at the dawn of the day before yesterday at the height of Mammola, is of six wounded, all young residents and all resident in the Plain of Gioia Tauro, in particular in Polistena (my Town Hall). Everyone has reported quite serious and one of them very serious. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that this stretch of road has jumped to the honours of the news as the scene of serious accidents. The last one had occurred just a month ago, while in March, in a frontal confrontation tragically lost their lives two very young of just eighteen and nineteen years. It is clear that the entire route is characterized by a high rate of danger, also due to the inadequate functioning of the special devices for the detection of speed, whose necessity, with reference to the highway 682, had already been highlighted by the prefect of Reggio Calabria in 2007, ten years ago. Road safety is a right of every citizen and must be placed among the priorities of the institutions at all levels, starting from the 24-hour speed control on 24 hours, in several points conveniently located on the whole road path, as I have also called for in the recent past. For this reason, I believe that the commitment to promote, by all the relevant bodies (ANAS, Metropolitan City, Region) any initiative to limit the occurrence of road accidents that endanger the safety of Calabrian motorists who drive this road daily (also and especially for reasons of work), through an effective control of the speed of motor vehicles. I'm gonna start doing my part. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u147	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I use this space for speeches at the end of the sitting because I believe that all political forces - in part they have succeeded - must be made aware of the problem of the so-called exodus of trade and, in particular, of traders and agents of trade. It has happened that, once the rules of budgetary maneuver have been adopted, an interpretative circular of the INPS has intervened, whereby traders or traders who are in a position to close their business from 1 January 2019 remain outside the allowance for the cessation of commercial activities. We are faced with a number of traders and traders who have paid their contributions and who are now unable to receive the allowance for the cessation of commercial activities. It is a matter of course of a technical nature, but the fundamental point, to simplify it, is this. This is due not so much to the budgetary manoeuvre that has introduced this possibility, but to an interpretative circular of the INPS. It seems paradoxical to us, also because in general the Government and the majority have carried out a series of actions that have gone with a 100 quota towards the possibility, on the contrary, of guaranteeing a pension. We know very well that those who engage in trade as agents have much more difficulties both because pensions are lower and because of the general framework. I therefore call for all political forces to be made aware of the need for joint legislative action. [[Applause from Senator Alderisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u150	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I am forced to speak to you about an issue which has long been creating great social alarm and concern in some municipalities in the province of Lecce (precisely Lizzanello, Cavallino, San Donato and San Cesareo). The citizens of these areas are paying the consequences of the political choices made in the past decades by the municipal, regional and national administrations that wanted in Salento, near Lecce, a huge concentration of waste collection and disposal facilities. I must remember that in the Municipality of Cavallino and in the areas on the border with Lizzanello and San Donato are concentrated the ex Saspi incinerator, source of great concern for years; the Le Mate landfill, in which undifferentiated waste is given whose miasmi radiating make the air irrespirable and nauseagonda; the landfill in the Guarini farm. As if that were not enough, last year, in elections already made and when the government had not yet formed, the green light was given by the former Minister Calenda to the construction of an experimental plant for the transformation of asbestos in the industrial area of Cavallino. The Directorate-General of the competent Ministry of the Government Gentiloni Silveri determined the exclusion from the environmental impact assessment procedure of the project. The doubts are many and the concerns of citizens, spokesmen and committees are more than legitimate both for the fact that the plant would arise less than 200 meters from a large shopping center, both for the limits imposed on experimentation in terms of duration (twenty-four months), and because the same authorization speaks of the treatment of a special hazardous waste through decomposition with exhausted whey, but failing the indications of the places of origin. Where does this garbage come from? From Lecce, from the Province, from the Region, from all over Italy? You don't know. Once again on the issue is pending an appeal to the TAR of Lecce against the Municipality of Cavallino, but, pending and perhaps even in contempt of the decision, the company PRA Srl. submitted the certified activity start report (SCIA) at the Municipality of Cavallino. My hope is that, with the question put to the relevant ministers, we will be able to accept the request for help from the citizens of the committee and the municipal councillors of Lizzanello and Cavallino, and that there will be a battle not to continue this proliferation of landfills. I expressly appeal to the mayors of the territory to cooperate: let us network, unite forces, each one do his part and put his commitment in order to prevent citizens from continuing to suffer the harmful effects of what others have wanted to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u153	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the instrumental controversy that in recent hours the PD of Umbria has raised, at regional and local level, accusing the Government of the closure of the birth point of the hospital of Pantalla, in the Municipality of Todi, in the Media Valley of the Tiber. In fact, I believe it is necessary and fundamental to restore the truth. I say this because a few days ago the regional council member told the mayors that on July 30 the birth point will close, because the government refused the derogation to the minimum number of 500 expected births and therefore, alas, the Region will be able to do nothing but implement the provision. Too bad that the regional council member, as well as the local secretary of the PD, forgot to say that on 22 May 2018, when the request of the Umbria Region was rejected, Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri was in charge and Minister Lorenzin was the Minister of Health. It would have been enough to check the date of approval and not the date of transmission, dating back to July. The most serious thing is that the community has not been warned and the mayors have not been warned fifteen days after the closure, when the same document recommended to activate an appropriate social campaign, to involve and inform the population about the closure. Well, for a year it was chosen to keep a document in the drawer, except then accuse the current Government of not having solved a problem, which is precisely the PD that created, not identifying just and necessary solutions, not only for Umbria, but at the national level, for a real problem. Since we are interested not only in restoring the truth, but also in finding solutions, I appeal to Parliament and the Government, although in full and absolute security to guarantee the unborn child and the mother, to review the parameters for maintaining birth points. If indeed, as we have all said, we want to fight the dramatic collapse of the birth rate, which hits our country, with a decrease of 140,000 born in ten years, we also do so by providing structures present on the territory, that allow citizens not to have to travel who knows how long, especially in the disadvantaged areas and in the small municipalities, to realize the dream of seeing their son born safely. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-135.ana.u155	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.05 a.m.
