ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 23 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u3	I communicate that on 24 October 2019 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 105 of 21 September 2019, with urgent provisions on the perimeter of national cybernetic security" (1570).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I now suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 16.42 a.m. and resumed at 18.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders established changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 7 November. At today's sitting, the debate on the motions for resolutions on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission to combat intolerance and racism will begin. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 10 a.m., provides for the Minister for Foreign Affairs' communications on the situation in Syria on which guidance instruments may be presented. The timing of the debate was regulated on the basis of the Group's requests. The follow-up to tomorrow's sitting will be devoted to the continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions on the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for combating intolerance and racism, as well as to the discussion on ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. There is no closing time except for a suspension from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. The agenda for the sitting of Thursday, 31 October provides for the discussion of the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorization to use interceptions of conversations concerning Senator Cesaro, the inspection union and the documents establishing a single chamber committee of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work, where concluded by the Commission. In the week from 5 to 7 November will be discussed the decree-laws on the reordering of the Ministries and on the cybernetic security perimeter; they will also take place, when presented in good time the draft budget law, the communications of the President, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The timetable also provides for the possible follow-up to the Single Chamber Commission's document on safety and the exploitation of work and the question time at 3 p.m. on Thursday 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 7 November 2019: [[Tuesday 29 October 16.30-20 - Motions on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission on the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence - Communications by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Syria (Wednesday 30, 10 a.m.) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Report by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys on the request for authorisation to use Senator Cesaro's telephone conversations in criminal proceedings (Doc. IV, n. 1) - Inspection union - Doc. XXII, No 4 and related - Establishment of a single-camera commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 30 " 10 Thursday 31 " 9,30]] [[Tuesday, November 5, 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1493 - Decree-Law n. 104, Reorder ministries (decades on November 20) - Drawing of law n. 1570 - Decree-Law n. 105, Cybersecurity Perimeter (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on November 20) - Communications of the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Regulation, on the draft budget law (*) (where transmitted in good time) - Possible follow-up Doc. XXII, n. 4 and related - Establishment of a single-camera commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing up office) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7:15) Wednesday 6 " 9:30 Thursday 7 " 9:30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1570 (Decree-Law No 105, Cybersecurity Perimeter) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. (*) After the President's communications, the draft budget law will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. The Commission will have to submit its reports to the 5th Permanent Commission by Monday 11 November. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministeri) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 50' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1570 (Decree-Law No 105, Cybersecurity Perimeter) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 9' FI-BP 47' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 26' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u9	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as was reiterated at the Conference of Group Leaders a few minutes ago, we have no particular problem with the proposal for a timetable that has been made with our colleagues. However, we have decided, as the Lega Group, not to give our unanimous assent simply because we have made a specific request, namely that the President of the Count Council should come to the Chamber and report, through an information, on the news we have learned about the media, which was also reported a few hours ago by the Financial Times. The representative of the Government said he would wait for the President of the Council's reply; as long as this answer is not there, we clearly cannot give the timetable unanimous agreement. We are not going to make any alternative proposals and therefore we are not going to propose a vote, but it seemed right to point this out. Among other things, we take advantage of this opportunity because, pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, as a Group - and we highlighted it at the Conference of the Leaders - we have filed a motion that has more than 65 signatures (so it absolutely complies with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure) and therefore within thirty days it must be discussed and therefore there is an obligation on the President to include it on the calendar. Since we filed it on 24 September, the time is more than long enough for the debate on this motion to be included in the timetable, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Thesei is entering the Chamber. Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI groups. Applause from the M5S Group.]] We also remember - and we thank the whole Conference in this regard - that tomorrow afternoon, having scheduled for a suspension from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., during the planned break we held a group meeting. So we would also ask the Presidents of the Commission - we have already pointed out - not to convene Commissions at that time, without considering that during the work of the House, however, it is necessary to ask for authorization from the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u12	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise because the Brothers of Italy Group will also not oppose the timetable that the meeting of the Leaders has just decided to propose to the Assembly, but it is our duty to remind colleagues of two issues: the first is the request that the President of the Senate addressed to the Groups at the beginning of the summer, with which it was asked that the Groups, mainly those of opposition, could list a number of important political issues, motions or proposals of law that could be included in the discussion spaces of the Commissions and also of the Assembly. It is a sacred principle, because parliamentary activity is not only that of the majority - but I should better say of the Government - which acts through decrees-laws often armored; Parliament's activity is also ennobled by the activity of oppositions, who claim the right not to see their proposals approved, but at least the right to see the possibility of discussing them admitted and also to see them rejected, as is easy to predict. It is a right that we claim. In a way, I believe, responsible we said, even a few minutes ago, that we will not oppose the emergency decrees, even those that have an institutional character and that concern the security of the country; however, we cannot wait indefinitely for this formal request, made by the President of the Senate, at the request of the opposition groups, to find concrete response and not remain dead letter. The second question - and I am referring to what my colleague from the League has just said - concerns President Conte: we also believe that on the events in which he was involved, at least from the statements or indiscretions of journalists (but coming from the very authoritative press at international level, such as the 'Finncial Times'), the best thing to do is not to respond with a press release, but to come to Parliament to explain and convince, if it is able, of the absence of its responsibilities compared to what has been disputed by these authoritative journalistic sources. It is Parliament where these issues are resolved. I am particularly concerned that some parties, which were born invoking transparency, are now very recalcitrant with regard to the possibility that the President-in-Office of the Council will come to Parliament, to the House of Italians, to explain what he has done or has not done. If he is able, as we hope, to explain his attitudes and the correctness of what he has done, we will gladly take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u15	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I agree with the position taken by Presidents Romeo and Ciriani: we too do not oppose the current timetable for the work of this House, because in general we are in order to ensure that the measures can be discussed. The whole opposition has a responsible attitude, because we believe that everyone is interested in a rational and transparent discussion of the measures; we would therefore like to receive the same attitude from the Government, even more than from the majority, even if we should speak of a majority here. We would like to prevent all discussions from being subject to a number of referrals: referral back is always slipping away and programmes cannot be made at all. I agree with the request that the President-in-Office of the Council report back to the House. He made public statements, but this is the Senate of the Republic, the Chambers both function and are fully entitled to be the forum for discussion and the place where the Government, in particular its President, makes statements and not the news agencies and television broadcasts, with all due respect for these media. I also find it irrational to see the progress of work, particularly on Thursday, in a situation in which the timetable had already seen the postponement of a measure last week and would have provided for Thursday only the inspection union, so much so that, in order to promote this situation, we had also renounced the so-called question time, questions in immediate response, although they are the interest of the opposition; instead, we find several votes, even very important. We know that these are intense days: all senators receive invitations to participate in events and events on the territory, in particular during this period and in particular Thursday and of course Friday. We therefore think that this organization of work is irrational, but we do not put forward alternative proposals in the spirit of cooperation, but we would like it to be mutual, otherwise the spirit of cooperation is tired and we will have to adopt other attitudes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u18	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to ask for the possibility of supplementing the agenda and, in particular, to devote sufficient time to our work to thank President Mario Draghi when he leaves Mrs Lagarde the Presidency of the ECB. I believe that in recent decades there has been no other Italian citizen who has also deserved to be thanked by the Senate of the Republic for his works in support, not only of the economic interests of our country and Europe, but also for having contributed decisively to the political and institutional hold of Europe. In a time when we see so many, even of us, escape our responsibilities, Draghi has shown that there are men who know how to hold a high office not only to receive honors, but also to fulfill the duties that are required. Helped by the highly qualified staff of the ECB, Draghi in all circumstances took decisions that saved the European Union from default and did so knowing that he would respond personally and having clear the interest of a continent on its knees. Dedicating a part of our work to honor Mario Draghi is a duty for us, but not only: it can help us measure the distance that separates a great institution like the Senate, where too many times we lag behind in making decisions even urgent, from the extraordinary effectiveness of the action of a man only struggling with much more complex issues than we can imagine. In thinking, I think it can be said that the greater distance between us and Dragons lies in the strength, lucidity and disinterest with which he led his battle. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u19	Senator Zanda, proposing a change to the calendar should also indicate when to schedule your proposal, otherwise I would have difficulty interpreting your thinking.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like my proposal to be included in the timetable that has now been offered for consideration by the Senate Assembly, so on the days that go from today to next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u23	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to make sure that a request which I find somewhat provocative by the leader of the Romeo League to listen to the President of the Count Council on the issues raised by the Financial Times does not go unnoticed. I say this not because it is provocative in itself, because there is nothing strange and I also believe that President Conte will accept this proposal (and I understand that we are already trying to find solutions to understand in what form). However, it is paradoxical that Romeo asks to listen to Conte in Parliament when Salvini has never been heard, because he refused to come to Parliament to report on the events in Russia. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD),]] In addition, Count replaced Salvini here in the Chamber when he refused to report to Parliament. Of course, I am pleased that Mr Romeo has said that he will not ask for the timetable to be changed by a vote, which is in agreement with the proposed timetable that we discussed at the Conference of the Leaders. He raises a question about the presence of the President of the Count Council, but it seems to me truly surreal and incredible that that Group and that Parent Group put it. I also remember that Salvini's presence was also requested in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and he refuses to go there too; so he is your leader, he is your captain, but frankly, President Romeo, let us not exaggerate. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u26	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to make two points. First of all, I would like to express my complete agreement with the spirit and letter of the assessments that Senator Zanda made before me. I believe that, as a Senate, we must have a national pride, which is a shared and important feeling, in seeing what happened yesterday in Frankfurt, where an Italian has received the consent and thanks of the whole of Europe for an impeccable action to defend stability and the European currency. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] On this issue we have seen an authentic Italian leader like Mario Draghi assume responsibilities that go beyond the very role of great banker recognized and appreciated by all. He had courage in manifesting an important leadership for which we, as Senate, must be grateful. I would also like to add, to what Senator Zanda said, a small consideration addressed to all the parliamentary groups: an act such as the one proposed, of such strength and solemnity, must absolutely be shared by everyone. It is for this reason that I would ask that there should not be an explicit vote today, but that we should delegate to the Conference of Leaders the choice of the best ways of ensuring that there is a position of our Parliamentary Assembly, precisely to prevent a somewhat improvised debate from creating some problems. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u29	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I will try to sum up how things have been and understand from you, Mr President, whether we are going in the right direction. At the Conference of Leaders, which ended a short while ago, there was a decision, not unanimously, on the timetable: the Lega Group abstained. Now, let us resume the work of this House and there is a sort of comment, a wish - not a voteable proposal - on the part of the League regarding the Conte issue, which has become a debate on Conte. Senator Zanda takes the floor and opens a question about Draghi, who is not on the agenda, so we would need a new Conference of Leaders to include it. Senator Casini, it's not that we don't deal with it; we simply can't do it, we can't vote, which is something else. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Let's get the spirit. Mr Perilli (M5S). On the spirit, everyone has his own! In any case, Mr President, I would like to refer the matter back as an exit from the Conference of Leaders and proceed in line. The proposal, in my opinion, is not acceptable and therefore must not be put to the vote, and I believe that you agree. There may also be a comment on the sidelines of the outcome of the Capigroup, but this is also a bit irrational, not turning into an alternative proposal, but it's fine. Now, however, I would like to move forward with regard to what we said at the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u30	Senator Perilli, Senator Zanda has made an absolutely welcome proposal; we can propose topics that have not exactly been discussed at the Conference of the Leaders. The only condition is that a Senator per Group can make his own proposal; he will decide whether or not the Assembly can be supported. [[Comments.]] The final phase of the proposals - so that no further problems are raised - opens a debate in which one speaker per group can speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u33	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on Senator Zanda's proposal, our position is that of an assessment of a change in the timetable, with the commitment, however, by all the leaders, to discuss the matter at the first useful Conference of the Leaders. This is to avoid a vote - on a figure like that of Mario Draghi - that it is absolutely not correct that we are here today. This is our position, with the hope that the proposal will be withdrawn, as Senator Casini has already hoped. I take this opportunity to say, on the issue that Senator Pharaoh mentioned earlier, that we have never received requests from the Senate, from the Democratic Party Group or from other groups, for Salvini to report to the House. You made the request to Count, perhaps because you had already agreed in those days! Maybe this is it: you asked Count! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u34	Senator Romeo, I invite you back on the tracks.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u35	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There are no official requests in this direction. You introduced her to the House, but not the Senate. So, check before you do any surgery in this direction. Then, since the President of the Count Council has shown himself willing several times in wanting to parliamentaryize any issue that concerns the Government, one cannot preach well and rocket badly. We therefore hope that you will come to this House and report. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u38	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, on this subject just dealt with by my colleague, the League's Parent Company, I can only confirm the desire expressed by my Parent Company to see the President of the Council here soon. I don't care if one did and another didn't. There is a specific request, also from the Brothers of Italy Group, for President Conte to settle the matter. So, beyond the arguments if one did and the other didn't, he lets us know quickly whether or not he wants to come to the Senate. Mr President, on the proposal from Senator Zanda, on the other hand, I think it is inappropriate, and unrespectful of Draghi, to suddenly propose a vote on what was not understood: whether a hearing or a celebration. But do you have live celebrations? They don't make themselves alive. Is this a day of jubilation for Dragons? To propose such a sudden vote does not seem to me to be very respectful. It's more like propaganda for future investments, and I don't think Draghi asked for such a thing. I am surprised that Senator Casini has joined this request, even if it has mitigated it, postponing it to a next time, talking about it before and evaluating it at the Conference of the Leaders. Presented like this, I must say with regret that I feel more like something self-harmful. Certainly, if we were to vote, I do not think we could be in favour of deciding here on this unspecified day. I didn't say we'd vote against it. I said that I am not sure of our vote in favour. So, I invite Senator Zanda to be thoughtful. Whether he wants to be respectful or not to Draghi is his problem, but I personally invite him to withdraw the proposal, which can be properly evaluated, more in detail, at the Conference of the Leaders. This, although technically, I have nothing to complain about that I can put it here and even have it put to the vote if you like.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u41	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I must say that I am very surprised, because I have listened to the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, the Leader of the League and now Senator La Russa, with different and varied arguments, to interpret, in a way that frankly surprises me, my proposal. I thought I'd do it because this is the time to do it. I say to Senator La Russa, who says that I am presenting her suddenly, that I am doing her in the Chamber during the debate on the calendar: so, not suddenly. And I do so at a time when it has to be done, that is, at a time when, at the European Central Bank, there is a transition from one President to another President. I thought it would be useful, for the Senate, not to hold a debate, but even a session of proceedings, to examine the European policies and policies of the European Bank and also to express a position of the Italian Parliament. But if this proposal produces this eczema on the skin of so many senators, giving them, as I imagine, political interpretations and assuming that there are no intentions, then I must say, with regret, not for me or for President Draghi, but for this Parliament, which gives this kind of interpretation to a proposal that had anything else to do with it, that I withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, thank you for allowing me to briefly express my thoughts. Of course, we share the extremely positive view of the work of Mario Draghi. Moreover on the election of Mario Draghi the work of Silvio Berlusconi, at the time President of the Council, was decisive and therefore more than anyone else we are proud to have contributed to bringing Mario Draghi to the role he had. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We also believe that it is good to deepen the debate, giving it a more parliamentary role. We thank Senator Zanda at this point for withdrawing the proposal. I believe that we need to study this issue in more detail and, as far as the content is concerned, we are clearly in favour of it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u45	The saying thundered so that in the end it never rained, it was so suitable for the session. The timetable for work at this point becomes final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u46	I greet a Ladin delegation from Val Badia in the province of Bolzano, who is attending our work. [[Applause]] We also greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Alessandro Manzoni" in Correzzola, in the province of Padua. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u47	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00136, tabled by Senator Segre and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00176, tabled by Senator Salvini and other senators, 1-00177, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00181, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and 1-00182, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u50	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I believe that this House should today give its full support to my colleague Liliana Segre for the shameful attacks she has suffered in recent days. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]] We must condemn this intolerable attitude towards not only one person, but a tragic moment in our history, which you represent in this House today. Mr President, I'm not taking any more of your time. As Forza Italia Group, we express our full solidarity with Senator Segre. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u51	Thank you, Senator Mallegni. I have done so personally and I do so now as President: I express my friendship and my full and total solidarity with Senator Segre. I call the Senator Segre to explain motion No 136.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u52	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the House for the expression of affection. I have been a victim of hatred, and even now I am clearly a disturbing symbol. All the more reason why I am very pleased to present to this House today the content of motion 136, which has a clear and clear purpose: to prevent and combat precisely the incitement to hatred. The fight against racism and xenophobia is the heart of every human rights policy, because tolerance and respect for the dignity of others are the foundations of every truly democratic and pluralistic society. Racism and xenophobia in all their forms and manifestations, however, are obviously also incompatible with the values on which the European Union is founded. Exactly 20 years have passed - and it seems a century now, for the matter we are talking about - since the expression hate speech appeared in the European Charter of Human Rights. In 2008, on the other hand, the European Union adopted the Framework Decision, mentioned in the motion, according to which Member States must ensure that hate speech, intended and directed against a group of persons or a single member of it, with regard to race, colour, religion or ethnicity, is punishable. In that same decision it is stated that public incitement to violence and/or hatred must be punishable, whatever its form of dissemination (written, images or other material). 18.41 (Follow Secre). Even if there is no express mention of the Net, it is easy to understand how that is the hunting ground of the most perverse subjects. Hate speech on the Internet is one of the most widespread ways of expressing racist and xenophobic attitudes. It is therefore necessary for all Member States to have adequate instruments to combat such phenomena. All the more necessary, because precisely the Network constitutes an immaterial infrastructure whose ability to cross borders is boundless and boundless. Well, today we are debating the adoption of a motion setting up a single-cameral Commission on hate speech, which will have to have tasks of observation, study and initiative for the direction and control of the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence. This Commission can play an important role: it is a signal that as a political class we address to the country, of morality, but also of democratic attention to phenomena that are likely to degenerate. Setting up this Commission, however, is also an opportunity to fill in a 'lacuna' - and here I use quotes with ownership - because it is a matter of giving a more complete meaning to the aforementioned European decision. If the law on negationism was undoubtedly a necessary response to the voice have you crime provided for by the decision in question, however, there is still one aspect to complete the discourse: that is, it remains to normalize the part relating precisely to hate speech. The law on negationism as such is not enough. Today we have an opportunity to complete the framework, as recalled in the document of 27 January 2014, the Commission's report to the European Parliament and the Council, which specifically called for the implementation of Council Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA and concerned the fight against certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia to be operated through the use of criminal law. The haters, almost all anonymous, must know that democracy knows how to defend people's values and rights in justice. That is why it is also important to approve the motion establishing the Commission, because we are faced with crimes of a specific nature, difficult to define and regulate, starting with the difficulty of identifying authors of illegal content, but also of eliminating such content. Hence the need to provide the competent authorities with as many means of knowledge as possible, but also to share experience and data in international cooperation, in order to reach effective conclusions. A Parliamentary Commission can make an important contribution to this. For these reasons, I hope that this House will vote in favour as far as possible and put the Commission in a position of full operation as soon as possible. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u53	I call Senator Faggi, to explain motion No 176.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I have a brief and necessary discussion after the more than acceptable words of Senator Segre. It must be remembered that there have been difficulties in obtaining accurate data on so-called hate crimes. Often these data are incomplete and partial, coming from governmental and ministerial sources, international institutions and non-governmental organizations. However, it is difficult to give the phenomenon of racism a national emergency dimension, as has sometimes been done by various political leaders. I would like to focus on four key points. The trend recorded in Italy is comparable to the large wave of landings and the phenomenon of uncontrolled immigration that has involved our country since 2013. In Italy the migratory phenomenon, caused by the development of violent and rapid evolutions of international dynamics outside the will of our country (and not by real factors of attraction of our economic and social fabric), also associated with a fallacious management of the system of reception and lack of control of the external borders, has matured within an evident situation of economic difficulty, particularly complex and heavy, in different areas of our society. Given also the importance of an effective border management policy for migration in order to facilitate the integration process and, at the same time, mitigate the issue of social conflict, the Count Government I was able to make a concrete impact on the progressive reduction in the number of landings: in 2018 80 percent and in 2019 96 percent compared to 2017. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let me turn to the fourth important point. The crisis involving the Italian economic system, exacerbated by the economic recipes imposed by the austerity policies demanded by the European institutions, has affected the ease of access to basic welfare services for the most exposed citizens and increased the unemployment rate and precariousness of the world of work. Consequently, the crisis has caused a downward competition between Italian citizens and immigrants, especially in the outlying areas of the big cities, thus amplifying the social resentment towards foreigners. An important point to remember is the current structure of our welfare system that does not adequately transpose the new Italian socio-demographic context, caused by the changes resulting from the latest migratory flows: therefore, given the difference of income between Italian and foreign families, combined with a different composition of the family, immigrants manage to have easy access to different social protection services, that is, to social housing, occupying the first posts of the rankings. This phenomenon has exacerbated the feeling of injustice perceived by Italian citizens, especially among the social classes most affected by the economic crisis. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Other key points must also be considered. The phenomena of anti-Semitism within groups, or perpetrated by isolated individuals, of neo-Nazi ideological inspiration, as demonstrated by the latest attack in Halle, Germany, should be monitored and condemned. It must be stressed that the phenomenon of anti-Semitism, declined in the most serious episodes of violence, is developing in Europe mainly within the Arab-Islamic communities, as evidenced by the numerous attacks on symbols and individuals of the Jewish communities. In Belgium and France the phenomenon is rooted, also in the light of the presence of numerous Islamic enclaves in the outskirts of large cities, real operating bases for the authors of the main attacks on the national Jewish communities. Just remember the attack on the Toulouse school in 2014, at the Jewish museum in Brussels in 2014 and at the Hypercasher supermarket in Paris in 2015. The disease of anti-Semitism and hatred against Israel is nested, covered by the screen of anti-Zionism, also in environments close to the extreme left, as demonstrated by the continuous controversy that every year, on April 25, involves the Jewish Brigade. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Or from the numerous demonstrations in favor of Palestine in which, as in the Milan one of January 2018, slogans of clear anti-Jewish matrix common in the jihadist environments of the Middle East are heard. We must also consider that Christians in the world represent the community most affected by persecution and the trend is constantly increasing. There are 245 million Christians persecuted in the world, considering as phenomena of persecution, cultural and social discrimination, family disapproval, deprivation of work and income, separation from friendships, impossibility to marry, educational and school restrictions, physical abuse, torture, kidnapping, mutilation, destruction of property, imprisonment and murder. Most of these crimes continue in impunity, apathically implied by a large part of the international community, showing little attention to this phenomenon. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That said, should an extraordinary Commission be set up in the Senate to combat intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence, we ask that it include among the issues that this Commission will have to address the following points: the assessment of the importance of economic growth and accessibility to basic welfare tools for citizens, as a real tool to counter social tension; the importance of policies for the management of rigorous and controlled migration flows, to protect not only Italian citizens, but also migrants legally present in the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; the increase of forms of control within the Islamic cult centers, often illegal, as places that have taken on a strong political connotation several times and in which anti-Semitic propaganda has been carried out, in opposition to our cultural and constitutional values; respect for minorities, without that resulting in a denial of our identity [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , avoiding a cultural backwardness which, disguised as secularism in a way, would represent a dangerous prologue to the erosion of the foundations of our civilization, while encouraging concrete initiatives that develop a debate on the subject of Christianphobia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Allow me, Mr President, to conclude this speech by recalling two episodes, one close to the other, of which you can read in all the newspapers and all the social media. The first is referred to 12 October: a parade paraded for the East of Milan, towards the center of stay for the repatriation of via Corelli, a pro migrant demonstration, opened by the banner bearing the written: Against CPRs and security decrees. Social justice, climate justice, rights for all and all. Well, as this procession progressed, in front of this banner there were cases from which a new remix started, in which Senator Salvini's voice was heard repeating the insults he received daily. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have to invite her to conclude. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm gonna finish. Insults such as "Salvini" die, "Salvini crepa", "Salvini bastardo", "Salvini infame", "Spari a Salvini", "Salvini" hanging upside down. Not later than two hours ago, Senator Centinario also received two letters of threat, sent to his mother's house, on which it was written: "Mori, legista di shit. Hell awaits you. This is also hate and I hope that the Commission will also bear this in mind. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u55	In any case, this kind of expression has always been unanimously condemned by the House, regardless of everything. I call Senator Lonardo, to explain motion No 177.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry on the deepening of crucial issues for contemporary society, such as combating intolerance, anti-Semitism and in general any form of racism, reaffirms Parliament's central role in the practical implementation of constitutional principles. It is in fact the Charter, in article 3, paragraph 1, which states first of all that all citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It would therefore not be acceptable to be distracted from requests which, unfortunately, have returned to the present day at this very time, not least with the indiscriminate and cowardly attacks directed at an illustrious member of this House. Our solidarity goes therefore to Senator Liliana Segre, we have already shown it to her and we show her once again with a strong applause. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The senator, according to estimates of the judiciary investigating the case, had to face a daily average of about 200 discriminatory attacks. A shame screaming revenge. Such circumstances, if there is ever any further need, reiterate once again the need not to lower the guard and not to consider any result or objective achieved as unchangeable or definitive: constant attention is needed to prevent the cyclical return of similar regurgitations. The proposed body offers the opportunity first of all to represent a signal, a concrete warning to those who think they can use indiscriminately and indiscriminately the armament of cheap intolerance, perhaps protected by the values of freedom and constitutional guarantees that represent our common home. We need active supervision that, starting from this House, can assure the country of a road, a vision, a paradigm that is also legally capable of building a framework of guarantees that are always new and stable in their ability to update and adapt to the times. Think, for example, of the recent phenomenon of haters and the need to carry out monitoring of new technologies, which prevents the contamination and spread of campaigns, often driven by sordid interests, which refer precisely to the strings of intolerance through the systematic aggression of victims. We have discovered that precisely from the distorted use of technologies and means of spreading thought, and therefore of offense and racial, social and religious prejudice, can come a violent attack as unthinkable until a few years ago towards the freedoms and principles that we considered untouchable. Therefore, starting from the understanding of the phenomenon and its declination in the new technological scenarios, the Commission will be able to comply with a concrete activation of the constitutional principles of equality and freedom, previously recalled. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I apologise, but I feel like I'm at the market.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u57	Colleagues, please, there is a buzz that disturbs both the speaker and the listener. The subject is important so please allow the intervention to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u58	LONARDO (FI-BP). Thank you, President. It is not possible to pretend not to see - and perhaps even not to listen - and perhaps imagine that the market in these technologies can self-regulate such phenomena. Unfortunately, we are witnessing the emergence of deviances of diametrically opposite sign, such as the purchase or access to technological products precisely because of the ability to ensure anonymity in using these instruments undisturbed for the purposes of denigration and spread of hatred. There is a whole part of the network called deep web, where the dissemination and sharing of illegal practices and borderline content constitute normality. It is necessary to break this vicious circle by reappropriating the capacity of such activities, without harming competition or the freedom of the sector, but without ever allowing fundamentals such as tolerance and the rights of persons who have access to these technologies to be called into question. Looking elsewhere only increases intolerance and contempt, even contributing, as recorded in different scenarios of the world chessboard, to war conflicts or to the reduction of possibilities for entire generations of citizens. I am sure that a committee of inquiry must also identify how education can be affected. The best repression remains the prevention and spread of the antigens of tolerance and respect, which can only take root through education and awareness. The new generations must therefore be encouraged in this direction. Parliament is called upon to bear a great test of educational responsibility that affirms the principle of true freedom, freedom of conscience, against the new sowers of hatred, those who use the Network to spread the culture of intolerance. The Commission is called upon to do something that is not easy, but certainly not impossible. I therefore hope that the unanimous vote in this House will be a clear signal and indeed mark the turning point. The battle of good ideas is only at the beginning, but an old saying says that the well-beginning is in the middle of the work. That is why I believe we should set up this Commission for which we in Forza Italia are firmly in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u59	I call Senator Ciriani to explain motion 181.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u60	Mr President, first of all I would like to say on behalf not only of my own, but of the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group, that we join in the words that have been expressed in this House by some of my colleagues in relation to the hateful attacks that Mrs Segre had to endure on a daily basis. Thus, as always, the Brothers of Italy Group joins with solidarity, which knows no party boundaries in relation to episodes that do not deserve any kind of justification or underestimation. Neither hatred nor intolerance can find citizenship in our day and, therefore, any initiative that goes in the direction of removing these elements still present in society finds our consent. We also wrote it in our motion. We wrote that: "Every initiative aimed at countering the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence in all their racial, ethical-national, religious, political and sexual manifestations is fully acceptable." I must also add that, unfortunately, the spread on social media such as Facebook, but not only, of these attitudes and behaviors reflects not only the badness and ferocity of our times, but also the vulgarity and stupidity that is prevalent on social media, where the presence of some idiot on the loose makes more noise, such as keyboard lions or other characters that behind anonymity often vent their worst instincts. We must not, therefore, make every grass a bundle and, perhaps, we must not exaggerate with respect to the consensus that these people can find in society. Mr Segre's intervention can only bring us back to the history of this continent, to the European history of the last century, which has been a terrible story in many respects, of totalitarianism and authoritarianism, which has been defined by some historians as the European civil war, whose scars have perhaps not yet completely closed down. Our motion refers to the need not to self-limit ourselves and not to self-censorship in relation to the spectrum of initiatives on which the Commission, if it is given back, will have to take action. Colleagues of the Senate, I come from a land, that of the eastern border, where it has been difficult even physically for many decades to tell truths that now seem simple and banal. I am referring to the truth of ethnic hatred and ethnic cleansing on the eastern border, of the foibes, of genocide, of the deportation of hundreds of thousands of Italians. Well, these truths, which are now fortunately the heritage of the whole country, are still the subject of shameful and political speculations, of negationisms, even subsidised with public money. It happened the other day, not ten years ago, that a journalist from Trieste was kicked out of the University of Trento because he wanted to report, once again, on these aspects, he simply wanted to speak freely and express his opinions. Well, the climate of hatred is still breathed in certain universities such as Trento, whose faculty of sociology is sadly famous for having given the soup of ideological culture to the Red Brigades and everything that happened in the 1970s. We knew and lived on our skin the difficulties, hatred and aggression even physical, in order to express our opinions, opinions not of part but of a part of Italy that for political convenience had been mistreated, forgotten and whose reasons were totally censored: they could not be told. We therefore have this concern, which goes far beyond Mr Segre's very good intentions: we would not want this Commission to become the cage of single thinking, of the mainstream of 'politically correct', because we believe that Italy needs a free confrontation. The question that we are asking ourselves and which we are also asking this House is: who can determine what reasoning is worthy of being censored? Who establishes what is intolerance or not? Who is it that establishes that a thing can or cannot be said? Is a country, a state, a society that gives freedom of expression to all opinions, even to the most extreme, or is stronger and more convinced of its roots and strength a country, a society that instead censors and acts criminally to counter opinions, even those that annoy us and we consider unacceptable? And tomorrow morning, Mr. Zuckerberg on Facebook will determine who can or can't speak on social media? This is a great issue on which I would also like to reflect the House, because the problem then is censorship and self-censorship; it is to determine who has the right to speak and who does not, what is politically correct and what is not, what was and what is no longer. This is what we ask ourselves, President and colleagues, because we live in a society in which we can freely insult the Catholic religion, mock the representatives of Catholicism in Rome or in any part of Italy or in the world, we can insult faith and traditions, we can mock and vulgarize any aspect of our social and religious life, even the one most dear to Italian traditions, but woe, for example, to criticize Islamic religious fundamentalism, because in front of this we are self-censored. Woe to tackle these issues, because then there triggers the trap of ideological censorship. It is strange that this is particularly true in relation to the fact - but Mr Balboni will speak about it better than I do, because we have tabled another motion on this - that precisely from the most radical Islamist enclaves come, in our view, the most serious threats to freedom of expression, in general and of the citizens of the Jewish religion. From there comes the confusion between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism, as was also mentioned by the Senator of the Faggi League. Then we wonder who will be able to determine what is possible and what cannot be said, what is intolerance and what is not, what is an unacceptable idea, but which still has the right to speak, and what are the ideas to be banned, the index of the 21st century. In this society we can speak badly of everything that belongs to our history and our tradition, but then we fear - and therefore we self-censor - to speak badly of those who come to our cities, live in our communities and perhaps force their sons and daughters not to attend school, to dress with the veil, to wear certain clothes, to undergo genital mutilation and so on. All this, President and colleagues, to say that with our motion we demand that the Senate recognize and transpose, for the institution of the Commission, not a partisan and partisan will of the Brothers of Italy, but a resolution of the European Parliament, voted no later than forty days ago: it is the European Parliament resolution of 19 September 2019, which claims the importance of European memory for the future of Europe, which makes no difference and expressly recognizes that the memory of the victims is the memory of all the victims, of all the totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which passes through the recognition of the common European heritage of the crimes committed by all the communist, Nazi and other dictatorships. If this resolution, adopted by the European Parliament, which should be accepted freely and spontaneously by Parliament, finds hospitality in motion No 136, then our vote will be in favour. Otherwise we will be led to believe that this is an operation, beyond - I repeat - the good faith and esteem that we have of my colleague Segre, aimed at establishing an ideological cage maneuvered by those who, in the name of political correctness, intend to define who can have in the future freedom of expression and who can no longer have it. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u61	I call Senator Balboni to explain motion 182.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u62	Mr President, as our Parent Company has already well explained, even the Brothers of Italy can only agree on the need for a greater commitment that will help our society to free itself from the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism, incitement to hatred and violence which unfortunately, on the contrary, know a progressive and exponential increase in recent years, which see the political debate increasingly polluted by these phenomena. We share this objective, although of course we are concerned that it should then be transferred into political operations aimed at censoring those who have a politically incorrect thought. That is why we have presented our two motions: one has already illustrated it by our Parent Company; the second concerns an equally important subject. We have carefully read the first-signed motion of Senator Segre: we appreciate, I repeat, the objective, but we are concerned that in this motion we never mention what, in our opinion, is the main risk factor of spreading hatred and anti-Semitism, namely Islamic fundamentalism. In this motion we never speak, in any reference, of Islamic fundamentalism. Yet, Senator Segre, you know better than we do since 2015, because of the Islamic fundamentalism and anti-Semitism that it has spread, one in four Jews has left Europe alone (he has fled) because of Islamic fundamentalism. Over 50% of refugees, in Western Europe alone, largely Muslims, declare themselves and have anti-Semitic ideas. In the last fifteen years, Islamic terrorism, which refers to sharia and Islamic extremism, has killed 729 people in the European Union alone and wounded some 4,800 people. (at 19:17) (Following BALBONI). There are 215 million Christians in the world who are suffering severe persecutions, which also lead to executions, mainly by Islamic oppression. We cannot deal, ladies and gentlemen, with this subject without mentioning this phenomenon, I fear, once again, with political correctness, that nationalism, even when it does not offend other nations, must be condemned and censored, while Islamic fundamentalism cannot be criticized, in obedience to this way of thinking succubus of the unique thought. Dear colleagues, of course, the risk factors that give rise to anti-Semitism, intolerance and xenophobia are of different origins and of different kinds: there is the extremism of the neo-Nazi groups, very minority; there is the extremism of the extra-parliamentary left and not only, which exploits the attack on Zionism to spread, in reality, anti-Semitism, as evidenced, for example, every April 25, the disputes regularly put in the field by this left-wing extremism against the parade of the Jewish Brigade, which is discriminated against and contested by this left. But above all there is Islamic extremism, which, as I tried to explain in this brief speech, represents the great part, the great mass of episodes of hatred and intolerance. For these reasons we believe (and we have tabled motion 181 to this end) that it is important and necessary to expressly mention this very serious phenomenon in motion 136, at the first signature of the Senator Segre, integrating in the text of the motion the scope of operation of this Commission, including in the object of which it must be addressed also the phenomena that can generate incitement or justification of hatred towards Christians and in particular due to religious intolerance with the matrix of Islamic fundamentalism. If we integrate motion 136 also with this reference, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group, even under the conditions expressed a moment ago by our Parent Company, will be certainly and firmly favorable; otherwise, there would be the doubt that this is only an operation to impose the unique thought and reach the censorship of those who are not politically correct. In fact, in motion 136 there is also reference to completely legitimate ideas: it is not a crime, in fact, to support the defense of one's own nation, it is not yet a crime to be nationalist. So, if you want to get to impose the one and the politically correct thought, we're not there. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u63	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u64	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having lost a little of my mind during some speeches, I wonder what we are discussing here. We are talking about how to fight in Italy (because we want to do our part) one of the most odious forms of violence, that is those characterized by one hatred for the other as identified as different from us. It is one of the most odious forms of violence because it is expressed in a way unknown in the past. We are aware of the history that has also crossed our country, but you hate speech on social media is a new form. I do not know what data are known, but certainly the phenomenon of hatred on social networks characterized by racism in the broadest sense is a national emergency, because the numbers, the frequency and the consequences to which it is faced testify. That is why we are certainly talking about an emergency, but in my view it is also about security. What is security today, the right to security? Is it not, above all, the right of our children, our children, to a peaceful life, not to feel threatened directly through these hateful instruments? Is it not the right of all of us to be able to express ourselves first of all with our individual identity, with our being? Security is the right to serenity and we are not talking about the expression of opinions, but of violence, of acts of great violence (the expression "you must die" has been used) and of insults, we could make many lists. They should be shared values and a precondition of all of us, of our country, present in our Constitution, so we are always in the implementation of constitutional principles. It should be a precondition that feeds on a shared culture. Therefore, I would like to say with serenity that when we talk about intolerance, racial hatred, and this type of violence, when we really want a unanimous vote, there is no ranking. There is no ranking with numbers, of intensity, to decide what is best and what is more serious; there is no distinction, there are no if and there are no buts. This must be our common heritage and must be analyzed on social phenomena. To the attention of the social community, if shared by the whole of this House, I can only applaud; probably on the analysis of many phenomena we would have different ideas, but pay attention. Attention: you cannot superimpose a social analysis or make it match and use it to make rankings and distinguish on the unanimous condemnation of certain forms of violence. You can't use arguments, which can also be distant from my own, or different distinctions to detach themselves from the text of the motion. There's no excuse. We are talking - and I conclude - about identity. This is precisely how we talk about identity in the motion: it is the identity we like, the identity of citizenship, the identity of values, which is not neutral, it is not relativistic, because it is the identity that forces us to make choices, not to justify, not to mystify, not to turn our heads on the other side, as happened even in very dark moments of our history. We have the task of countering all this. [[Applause from the PD and IV-PSI groups and the Segre senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u65	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, verbal violence, which also results in physical violence, threats or incitement to hatred are dramatically widespread and too often guiltyly justified. The hate speech, hostile and discriminatory, which comes from negative stereotypes, is too often trivialized or normalized even by political use. And let us not forget that derelict racism is also that of those who turn to the other side and say: "It is not my fault." We are all responsible for this growing and widespread intolerance, racism and language violence, to the extent that we are unable to fight it with the right determination. Setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry is therefore necessary, not only because it allows us to monitor the implementation of international agreements, to collect and process data and proposals, but because it can be extraordinarily useful to develop a collective awareness of the seriousness of these phenomena in order to learn to see them and not to remain indifferent. (19.28) (Follows IORI). The Jewish philosopher Hannah Arendt, in her book "The Banality of Evil" emphasized how the "View" puts our responsibility in the face of the world and history, while the widespread omission makes us accomplices with evil. You cannot be indulgent with the spread of violence; you cannot invest in hatred; you cannot bet on the resentment of those who live with anger. In these brief statements on such a radical and wide-ranging subject, I would like to highlight only two important and indispensable aspects as support for the Parliamentary Commission. The first concerns history; that story that too many of our youngsters show they do not know and which, on the other hand, represents the main transmission tool of our collective identity. Only memory can prevent the horrors of the past from repeating or worsening, removing the strength of democracy. We, as institutions, must defend that memory and demand that it be respected. History doesn't change. The story is written on the stone, also to tell the new generations the meaning of the past. The second aspect concerns the Constitution. Our country has built its identity on the repudiation of violence, the rejection of anti-Semitism [[Applause from the PD Group]] and on a democratic principle that recognises the freedom and rights of all citizens regardless of their beliefs, origins, beliefs, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation and any other personal characteristic or situation. A civil and democratic country gathers around those who suffer these violence and condemns without hesitation those who carry them out. And those who represent the institutions must make it clear that respecting the spirit of the Constitution means respecting every human person and fighting against discrimination in order to defend a future of democracy. Because the principles of solidarity and respect for the other were born with the Constitution and with Republican Italy. It is therefore up to us, including through the establishment of this Parliamentary Commission, to combat all forms of oppression and discredit of democracy, all forms of disengagement, creeping anti-politics, oppression and violence. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI and Secret Senator Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, safeguarding the fundamental rights of people, regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, sex or nation, is a fundamental element of our Constitution and of our Republic. We are witnessing, progressively, a dizzying growth in the phenomena of hatred, racism and anti-Semitism. Every day, episodes of single or group violence and intolerance, more or less subtle, occur in our cities and in our streets. The images of aggression, intimidation and ferocious aggression, both free and brutal, are before our eyes, cut television screens, strike our individual and collective sensitivity, shake our consciences by making our certainties falter, inflicting harsh blows on that social balance and civil coexistence, in which solidarity, tolerance and humanitarian spirit represent its fundamental essence. These episodes, sometimes inexplicable and without connection of chance with real situations of conflict, are manifested both explicitly and violently with expressions of hatred and persecution against individuals and entire communities, both in a more subtle and subtle manner, but equally dangerous, through the web or other media, that convey messages, in a more or less manifest form, of racial hatred, violence and contempt of people, using words, gestures, incitements and slogans. I would like to focus, with you, the attention on some forms, of the many, with which racism and intolerance pervade our daily lives and, however, constitute a danger to civil coexistence, regardless of their expression as physical violence, but which for their visibility and their spread represent, in my opinion, a spy, an alarm bell not to be underestimated and to be kept in proper consideration. Their common factor is that, at their base, there are both racial differences, and, more simply, the different geographical place of birth or residence: North or South of Italy. They also share the same environment as the football stadiums. All have before their eyes and minds racist choirs, rhythmic and aggressive choirs, towards the color footballers and violent invectives towards the opponents fans, pointed out with aggressive words like "terroni," cholera, or with drinking prayers of the type "Vesuvius," wash them with fire. The gravity of what has just been said is further amplified by the fact that all this happens in the presence of boys or children, who simply moved by the passion and desire to see their idols, find themselves watching scenes of this type in the stadiums. What teaching and experience can they receive? On this, too, the Commission which we are going to set up today will have to take action and take appropriate measures. These heinous episodes are very serious to me and must not only be stigmatized, but properly prosecuted and punished. I repeat that the Commission must also pay the greatest attention to these incidents: because these behaviours, to be unanimously censored, can be the beginning of a path, in which violence is the master, resulting subsequently in episodes of racism or intolerance. I cannot fail to point out that there must be education and proper cultural maturity at the basis of any programme to prevent such phenomena. This is the importance of school and of the correct approach to tolerance, to the culture of non-violence, to solidarity, capable of effectively countering also the violent messages that children and children often receive from the social environment and from the family in which they live. So the school, as a strong bulwark against racism and violence against people or social groups, whose only fault is simply to be different. In our classes that multi-ethnic and racial integration is increasingly realized, that balance not only between rich and poor, but between those who by convention define themselves as normal and those who are simply defined as different. Children and young people are still able to love deeply, without prejudice or fear and, above all, with their deep eyes and their souls to make others feel this love. We adults, rationally, try to imitate them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I wish the Commission every success. The road is difficult, but everyone's commitment will bear fruit. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fedeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u69	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an unsaid in this debate - which I am going to immediately, after having said that we strongly and firmly support the motion which first signed that of the senator and friend Liliana Segre - represented by the type of society to which each of us thinks. Evidently we do not think of each of us in the same society, just read the content of the motions to understand it. We imagine an open society, exactly that society that defined, not many months ago, Milan Kundera when he spoke of a society where harmony is linked to diversity, but which must be anchored to a protection of an identity understood in a wide and contemporary way. Not everyone feels the same way. Just read - I repeat - the content of the motions. There is no doubt that more than racism we are talking about discrimination, because the mother of anti-Semitism and racism is called discrimination. She is a worrying mother because discrimination not on merit and content, but by belonging, is one of those things that teach you between the first and the second grade, when teachers teach that we all belong to the same kind and are equal in the face of law and law. This diversity and therefore new forms of discrimination arise and feed on new factors, such as poverty and globalisation. On the other hand, the fear of the different remains permanent. Going on any Italian vocabulary, you will find two associated terms: strange and, immediately before, foreign. These terms have the same etymological root and following the meaning of strange, you understand the interpretation of foreign. Where is this point of diversity that we must succeed - I hope - in sewing it into a motion that we strongly support? Meanwhile, in repeating and bringing back to schools the study and knowledge of history, which is fundamental to knowing the roots of each and fixing open identities: without the knowledge of history, there is no possibility of watering the roots of each and interpreting them in a wide, broad and inclusive way. Secondly, I would like to say that those who bear public responsibilities must behave according to an ethical code before policies are even political. I agree with Senator Faggi, when he says that those who go to the procession - called Salvini or otherwise, but in this case Salvini - must receive an apology from each of us, if the former Minister and leader Salvini utter words until they wish their death. But an ethical code serves, for those who have public responsibilities, to prevent excesses and excesses means that Salvini himself at Ponte di Legno speaks of ethnic cleansing. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]] It is intolerable that in the words and phraseology of those who bear a public responsibility the expression "ethnic cleansing" should be used. One last issue I would like to discuss before concluding: I have many points in common with the speeches I have heard, but there is a decisive difference. As the President has just said, speaking from his place, we approve a motion that concerns Italy, so we must remain yoked to the Italian affair, not extend it. If we go to see the examples of anti-Semitism in Italy - unlike France, where they have a matrix above all Arab-Muslim and of certain radical left - they are in very large part of a completely different sign, of an extreme nationalist radical right, point and at the end. The code of ethics, by approving the motion of which Liliana Segre is first signed, also serves to establish an univocal behavior and conduct between us. It is an ethical code: it is not written in the motion, but for each of us, from Italy Viva-PSI, it is an integral part of the motion that Liliana signed first [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD and Senator Segre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u71	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen an exponential growth in the phenomena related to intolerance: racism, neo-fascism and anti-Semitism are just some of the expressions of a monster that we hoped we had eradicated and which, instead, are facing again today in the public debate and in the dimension of interpersonal relations. It would be wrong, however, to claim that these phenomena, which were political rule for over twenty years, disappeared immediately afterwards and then reappeared. Much more likely, we are talking about sleepy moods for years, which then the process of forming a more and more mature democracy has prevented for the long term from becoming publicly tolerated opinions. In short, it is true: our democracy has shown that it has strong immune defenses, which have allowed in some moments to reject on every occasion the re-emergence of aggressive and exclusive thoughts. Today, however, the words of hatred, violence and intolerance are becoming more and more part of the common vocabulary, also thanks to the use of social media and spread like a disease in society. It is clear that the spread of the incitement to hatred has gone hand in hand with the enlargement of the audience of users also of new means. The everyday life of adults and youngsters is now more than ever crossed by incitements to hatred. The cultural and, therefore, political point is that there is no perception of the gravity of the system of hate speech, because, through the mechanism of uncritical addiction, even that language becomes one of the possible languages to be expressed in the midst of an aggressive and pervasive unawareness that further feeds a misunderstanding and deliberately opaque area. It is, therefore, an urgent and profound question that concerns all of us, individually as individuals, but - above all - in our social dimension, because if it is true that anyone can be the victim of such episodes, it is also true that the spread of the culture of hatred and the habituating of such messages, triggering the mechanisms of addiction downwards, can gradually shape an entire society and risk transforming the very idea of democracy to the point of removing the border between what is lawful to say in a democratic society and what is not, as well as between what can be done and what is forbidden because existentially, ethically and culturally incorrect. With the motion promoted by the illustrious Senator Segre, who has been subjected to democratic attention and tension, we call for a Commission to be set up to study the phenomenon, collect and share data with other institutions and - at last - to identify substantial instruments to embarrass this drift. Our everyday life is crossed by incitements to hatred - this is a fundamental and amplified point - but the new border line for those who engage and fight in defence of human rights is a new, necessary and urgent conscious, determined and organized activism. It is necessary in order to fight with balance, firmness and competence, as well as in order to defend the victims, direct and indirect, of this new wave of verbal violence, ensuring that people and, above all, their dignity no longer have to be crossed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u73	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very particular subject, because incitement to racial hatred and discrimination is a subject that must necessarily be combined with one of the fundamental freedoms within our system, namely freedom of expression of thought, enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. At a time when a Commission is dealing with the question of the way in which today, especially through social media, expressions of hatred, incitement to hatred and pure malice towards some people are used, we must take into account two elements. The first one I mentioned a moment ago and, sometimes, the address given to us at the level of international legislation (I think of the American one, but also of the European one). I am referring to the need for a more precise regulatory definition, because - otherwise - there is a risk of having something nebulous that, as I said, can be confused, depending on the historical moment, with a limitation of the freedom of thought. The second element is, in my opinion, the need to understand why there are these expressions of hatred, that is, why we hate our neighbour, perhaps finding anti-Semitism, racism and various kinds of issues a glue of hatred. I believe that these reasons must be analysed. We rightly speak of our age as the age of anger, indeed, to be more precise, there is also those who wanted to reconstruct, in the course of the history of humanity, all the moments in which anger represented itself through hatred and therefore also through incitement to hatred, and I believe that this is a moment of substantial analysis. Why do we have particular peaks in which we are faced with a visceral hatred that certain people have against others? I believe that in the beginning there is, however, an exquisitely economic reason, that is, people hate other people when well-being is denied them, when they are ill, when they believe that other people enjoy better conditions or that they are considered privileged. If such a phenomenon has unleashed in the Western world - and especially in our country that seems to be at the top of the ranking, also with reference to phenomena known as immigration, but also others - obviously does not mean so much that there is a problem of education of people. Eventually, in antiquity they did even worse, they burned the witches, we don't forget it. Let us not forget what the Holy Inquisition did not do. These things happen, in my opinion (it's a very simple analysis), when people hate other people because they think they enjoy a better economic condition and well-being. This triggers hatred through the tools available. Once, I remembered it as a simple example, we burned witches, today we use social media, we used to throw people out of the rocks and today, instead, they insult each other through different tools. The Commission is all right, in my opinion, among other things, a motion has been tabled on this by the Forza Italia Group, but let us be clear on what we are looking for: we try to understand why today there is this hatred, particularly in Italy, why the reasons, I repeat, must be sought in the context of the general socio-economic moment, and how much this can become a limit with reference to Article 21 of our Constitution. We know very well, in fact, that at other times the limitation of the so-called incitement to hatred later became, in reality, a sort of exaltation of absolutely negative values and therefore of the compression of freedoms and fundamental rights. The Commission, as I said, may be an important moment for reflection, but with guidelines and principles set out in a fairly rational way, as I have simply tried to explain in this speech. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u75	As agreed at the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u78	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, legal certainty for any kind of enterprise is essential in order to be able to move and relate. There is a social pact that must never be cut, it must never be denied. Yet the Social Centre Committee - the social body of the SPRAR reception project in Caserta today is in an unprecedented state of financial crisis due to the failure of the Ministry of the Interior to provide funds. Yet, all the audits required by the Ministry have been carried out in time. The association, which is the manager of one of the largest SPRAR in Campania, in the Municipality of Caserta, has not been granted the last tranche of the payments of 2018 and still lacks the first tranche of 2019. This has put the centre in a very serious economic crisis, involving many workers and a considerable number of people who support this association with their work. In June 2019 we submitted a question, but we did not have any answer, just as the managing body made several requests to the prefect, the municipality, the Ministry for reasons of such missed payments. Clearly, the institution has discovered itself with the bank, because it has asked for trusts, and now it is not able to carry forward the economic commitments that characterize it. We contacted Prefect Lattarulo and we will make sure to go to the source of this reason, also because all the other municipalities in August received 70 percent of the sums due for 2019 and the SPRAR of Caserta, the largest in Campania, as I said, did not receive the last tranche of 2018, so with a very high discovery and with a very serious financial difficulty. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u81	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, last Friday night, heavy weather caused considerable damage to the territory of some municipalities in south-eastern Sicily. In Ispica, in the province of Ragusa, a frightening chasm has opened close to some houses, in Avola the area outside the hospital has flooded. Pachino was affected by many inconveniences, which mainly concerned the agricultural sector. In Rosolini, the city's worst hit by bad weather, a man died sadly: he was Giuseppe Cappello, a prison police officer who was about to go to work, driving along the Rosolini-Noto state road. In the district of Stafenna, forced to leave its car because of the rising water level, it was inexorably overwhelmed by a river of mud and debris. His body was found hundreds of meters later in the middle of the country. I join in the mourning of the family, the wife and the two children and the whole community of Rosolini, who yesterday gave the last greeting to Joseph. The occurrence of intense weather phenomena such as those of last Friday, more and more frequent throughout the national territory, must make us reflect on the climate change and on the prevention that man must put in place. We have to stop increasing the concrete cubes and consuming soil, we have to immediately put on site the works of mitigation and recovery of the hydrogeological failure. The president of the Sicilian Region, Nello Musumeci, went to the places most affected by the flood. Our hope is that, according to a spirit of loyal collaboration, the Region will join the Government so that the state of disaster can be resolved, the damage already happened will be repaired and work will be done to avoid the possible occurrence of future ones. In this regard, the undersigned together with the national MPs Marialucia Lorefice and regional Stefania Campo has submitted a request to the governor of the Sicilian Region to provide an exemption or a clear reduction of the payment of the roles issued by the consortium of reclamation for the agricultural entrepreneurs whose companies have suffered considerable damage as a result of the bad weather. We hope to have a rapid and positive response to this request. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u82	The Assembly joins in mourning for the victims of this serious phenomenon of bad weather in Sicily and is close to families.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-159.ana.u84	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 30 October, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
