ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1362, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u5	, f.f. Mr President, the House is today called upon to examine the draft law already adopted by the House of Members, which is ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Northern Macedonia. This is a long-awaited measure which was expected to close a decade-long debate between Greece and Macedonia, today Northern Macedonia. The agreement signed in 2018 and then ratified by the Skopje Parliament, transposed the new name of Northern Macedonia and paved the way for the full integration of North Macedonia into European and Atlantic organisations. It represents, therefore, a positive step. Of the 29 countries, 22 have already ratified and, therefore, Italy should do so. The Protocol provides, for the time being, for Northern Macedonia to be invited as an observer to NATO ministerial meetings, pending completion of ratifications. It consists of three articles. The first provides, precisely, for the ways in which North Macedonia is invited as an observer to ministerial meetings; the second establishes, once the process has been completed and the ratification by all countries, that the Secretary-General of NATO, but even before the Government of the United States, formally invites North Macedonia to become a full member of the Atlantic Alliance. On the other hand, the instrument of ratification, similarly, consists of only three articles which actually follow the contents of the Protocol, which has symbolic value at this time. We shall discuss this later when the President-in-Office of the Council is present. At a time when there are tensions within the Atlantic Alliance with one of the main partners, Turkey, giving the signal to proceed with the full integration of the Balkan countries within the European and Atlantic institutions is the best way to respond from the point of view of ensuring stability and security in the area. Therefore, we allow ourselves to propose the approval of the bill of ratification, taking into account the fact that it does not entail greater burdens for public finance and respects both constitutional constraints and international obligations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u6	As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u7	Mr President, I am speaking only to draw the House's attention to the importance of ratification of this Protocol, which provides for the entry of North Macedonia into the Atlantic Alliance. It is a measure that we hope will be approved by this House today so that it will be ratified definitively by Italy. The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia represents a moment of rapprochement and strengthening of Italy's bond with Skopje, but I believe it is also an Italian gesture that reaffirms our adherence to the transatlantic bond, which today more than ever must be preserved, enhanced and strengthened. With the entry into force of this Protocol, once ratified by the 29 members of the Atlantic Alliance, Northern Macedonia will become the thirtieth member of the longest-running political-military alliance since the Second World War. Of course, our hope is that accession will be formalized in time for the meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Alliance in London on 3 and 4 December. It is a coherent and functional protocol to the consolidation of the results that North Macedonia has achieved in terms of reforms. I am referring to the democratic control of the armed and security forces, the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the rule of law. These reforms have made it possible, also following the 2018 Prespa Agreement signed with Greece, to bring North Macedonia closer to the Euro-Atlantic community; developments that represent progress in the field of NATO's open door policy in the Western Balkans region, which is, in the Italian vision, a factor of complementarity with the path towards the European Union of the countries of the Western Balkans region, which we strongly support. The Protocol also serves to strengthen the stability projection of the Atlantic Alliance in the Balkan region, which is a traditional Italian objective within NATO. For all these reasons, we look forward to the adoption of the bill of ratification of the Protocol by the Senate Assembly; in this way the Italian ratification of the process of North Macedonia's accession to NATO becomes definitive.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u8	Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes from the beginning of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.43 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.) I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u11	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, the passage that we are taking today from the point of view of parliamentary competence is expected not only from Northern Macedonia, but from the whole chessboard of this part of the Balkans since February this year, i.e. from the moment when, at NATO headquarters in Brussels, the document which activates the procedure to arrive at the entry of North Macedonia into the special Atlantic cooperation which has the name of the Atlantic Pact has taken place. Is it a neutral act that we are doing? Did it mean anything? What's your opposite? Here I help with the words of a great scholar of international treaties and diplomacy who even founded a school in Italy - and it is the school that forms the great part of diplomacy not only national - Professor Pietro Pastorelli, who taught a generation of diplomats how the loneliness of a country that has set out is exactly the problematic condition that can make the conflict explode in an area that, as in this case, is strategic for the Balkans as a whole understood, but also for the center of the new Europe that we want to establish and enlarge. Therefore, we need a condition of collaboration and cooperation, which is the only one that makes us overcome the culture of boundaryism, that is, of borders erected under the banner of the culture of sovereignism, which then generates fundamentalist realities and realities that are in unnecessary competition about the vicinity and proximity. What has been the condition of this procedure to date? Did the neighbouring and neighbouring national realities immediately accede to the recognition of the Protocol? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senators, please lower the tone of your voice, because I can't hear the Senator of Alphonsus talking. D'ALFONSO (PD). The buzz covers my voice, which usually imposes itself, beyond the help of technology. The countries that gave place with ease of investigation and recognition were the neighbouring and neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Croatia, Slovenia and then 22 out of 29 countries. We must determine this pronunciation in such a way that, at the end of our ratification, we can arrive at the completion of the notifications of all the countries participating in the Atlantic Pact and then the invitation of the UN Secretary-General to the full and protagonist entry by North Macedonia will begin. The new event that took place in 2018 was the Prespa Agreement that allowed us to overcome decades of conflict between Greece and that part of Macedonia and to reach an agreement even on the big issue of the denomination. It is very significant that the theme of the denomination has been resolved, because from that moment another relational season has begun. We believe, as Italy, that all the investment on the level of attention, attention and international care is towards Albania - another fundamental subject of the chessboard - that will also help us to confirm the economic consistency that, for us, means North Macedonia. We are among the main partners for both exports and imports. For these reasons, the Democratic Party Group votes in favour, aware that after this transition we will also help Northern Macedonia with regard to entry into the European area, after the application phase. The Democratic Party Group therefore votes strongly and argumentably in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u14	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also welcomes the fact that this Parliament is preparing to ratify this Protocol, opening the way for the approval of the 29 Member States, so that those modalities and timetables provided for in the Protocol itself that will allow the Republic of North Macedonia to join NATO can begin. It is an important Protocol, also because it comes after the beauty of twenty-five years of conflict and conflict between that territory of the former Yugoslavia and Greece; conflicts to which it was managed to put an end in the light of the change of government units in that territory, which later led to the Prespa Agreement. It is important that, at the same time, the process of accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the European Union is launched this year. This is an important step for which we therefore vote in favour. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u17	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we are voting in favour of this ratification, which is important in at least two respects. The first obvious aspect is the strengthening of NATO in the Balkan area characterized by a history, a chronicle and a tormented geopolitics; a new democracy enters NATO and, therefore, welcomes the Republic of Northern Macedonia. On the other hand, we know from the news that this territory is one of the crossroads of illicit trafficking in drugs, weapons and human beings towards Western Europe. So, there's an aspect of security, as well as defense. There's something I'm very happy about. NATO was created in 1949 to protect democracies from communism. Today communism has collapsed to protect democracies. I am glad that a new democracy is part of NATO and is available for the protection of good and common values. As representatives of the government are present in the Chamber, I ask them, as members of the Commission, to bring the following question to NATO: is the concept of ethnic cleansing compatible with democracy and its values? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In addition to talking about the crisis area between Turkey and Syria, I would ask them to also talk about what is happening in Turkey and in the North of Syria; I am talking about ethnic cleansing of the Kurdish people in order to increase and consolidate the policy of power of a dictator in Turkey, since Mr Erdoğan is such a dictator: a fundamentalist dictator. To my colleague who spoke of sovereignism, I want to say that it is compatible with democracy, because he defends it if it is the sovereignty of a democratic country. If instead we are talking about a country that puts its Muslim theological vision at the centre to justify all kinds of horrors against unarmed civilians, then it is not about sovereignism, but about a nightmare and it is not decent that NATO and the European Union talk not about ethnic cleansing, but about a crisis area. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The rapporteur also spoke of a crisis area. This is certainly a crisis, as much as the one we experienced in Bosnia in the 1990s. In that case, however, there was talk of ethnic cleansing, and there was the courage to use this term. How come today there is no courage to say that the Kurdish people are being exterminated? Why is there no courage to talk about Kurdistan and the Kurdish people? These words were also deleted at the very recent session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg also spoke of a crisis area and concerns about Turkey's security. The words "curdo" and "Kurdistan" were not spoken by NATO representatives in English or in any other language. The British Minister of Defence, in front of all the MPs of the Defence and Security Commission, said that Turkey is running a risk for its security across borders. I do not know if you know what that means: it means that there is not a war, a conflict, but a strategic risk for security reasons. Consequently, if the Syrians and, above all, the Russians, supported by the Kurds - as has recently been reported - attacked or found themselves attacked by the Turks, Turkey could perhaps invoke Article 5 of the Alliance Treaty, Turkey is not in fact at war and is attacked by third countries, because NATO does not recognize the state of war or conflict in that area. We are at a very high risk of escalation. Therefore, before it is late, the Commission needs to intervene in NATO and in the appropriate fora to declare that what Turkey is doing in northern Syria is a clear violation of humanitarian rights and that an ethnic cleansing operation is taking place against Kurdish ethnic groups. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I can understand that we do not want to recognise Kurdistan for reasons of stability, but there are the Kurdish people and the innocence of people who are being massacred. Therefore, in expressing on behalf of the whole of my Group the vote in favour of this draft ratification law, I ask the Government and all Members of Parliament to take a clear position, because we cannot be silent, nor can we speak using euphemisms, as I have heard too often in this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u20	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after a dispute which lasted almost 30 years on the name to be given to the State of Macedonia, between Macedonia itself (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) and Greece, a positive conclusion has finally been reached. The Prespa agreements made it possible to change the name in the Republic of North Macedonia, which enabled the representatives of the 29 NATO Member States to sign, on 6 February this year, the Protocol of Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, which will become the thirtieth NATO member state. Pending the completion of the ratification procedure, presumably by next year, the signing of the Protocol allows Macedonia to participate in NATO meetings as an observer. The Protocol, like acts of the same nature, used during the recent enlargements of the Alliance, regulates the timing and modalities of the accession of Skopje. Under Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, however, the Republic of Macedonia will become part of the Alliance only at the time of deposit of its instrument of accession with the Government of the United States of America. In particular, the Protocol aims to further strengthen military cooperation between the signatory States and to contribute to the development of European identity and security and defence, increasing the stability of the Euro-Atlantic area. However, I would like to remind you that since 1995 the Balkan country has joined the NATO Partnership for Peace programme, which then took part in various international missions. I would also like to point out that NATO is an extremely important body with rules, and that - and I am also attached to what my colleague from the League says - it does not only guarantee members with a mutual defence pact, but also obliges them to behave in accordance with the international order. Just to make it clear what has happened in recent days and hours, with Turkey's very violent aggression against Syria, I recall that Article 1 of the North Atlantic Treaty states: The Parties undertake, as set out in the United Nations Statute, to resolve by peaceful means any international dispute in which they may be involved, so that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from resorting to the threat or use of force which is absolutely incompatible with the purposes of the United Nations. I believe that Turkey has violated this principle and that the Italian Government must assume its responsibilities accordingly and denounce this fact, where appropriate. I have the impression that the measure we are about to approve today is of particular importance: for this reason, I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group, but I urge the Government to refer to and look very carefully at Article 1, which I have mentioned, because I believe that there are no longer the conditions for Turkey to remain within the North Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u23	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, the NATO Accession Protocol has so far been ratified by 22 of the 29 Member States. Northern Macedonia will therefore become the thirtieth member of NATO and will certainly contribute to improving the security environment in the Balkans region. We remember in fact the dramatic months of the armed insurrection of the Albanian minority in the North of the country in 2001, which caused hundreds of deaths and about 140,000 displaced, risking to plunge the country into yet another ethnic conflict of the Balkans. Northern Macedonia has already participated in NATO military missions, such as that in Afghanistan. But let us remember that NATO is an organization not only of military cooperation, but of political cooperation, based on the principles of democracy and loyalty among the countries that are part of it. We therefore welcome the entry of Northern Macedonia into the Alliance and hope that on this 70th anniversary of its life, also in the light of the dramatic events that we are experiencing these days on the border between Turkey and Syria, the Alliance will be able to regain the strength necessary to face the challenges that contemporaryity puts before us, in full and renewed respect for the values on which it is founded. It is with this strong hope that I will vote in favour of my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u24	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 10.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.30 a.m. and resumed at 10.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u25	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u26	Mr President, kind senators, kind senators, the next European Council has a dual political value, in a European but also an Italian way. It is the first after the appointment of the EU institutions' summits and takes place a few weeks before the start of the mandate of the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and the new President of the European Council, Charles Michel. This European Council is also the first in which I participate as President of the Council of a new Government which sees Europe as a pillar of Italy's international position and is ready to commit itself to finally giving the citizens of the Union the answers they have long been waiting for. I have already had the opportunity to say, on the occasion of my speech on the vote of confidence, that it is within the perimeter of the European Union and not outside it that we must work in search of the well-being of Italian citizens, updating, but also revitalizing, a project that has ensured for decades peace, prosperity and ever greater opportunities for all, starting with the youngest. The future that we want to assure our continent characterizes the issues on the agenda at the next European Council, from the debate on Turkey to Brexit, from the multiannual financial framework to the enlargement of the European Union, to climate change. Italy intends to play its part on these issues, so that Europe can act with full cohesion and take effective and sustainable decisions, even in the medium to long term. I believe it is essential - and this is all the more important at this stage, which preludes the entry into office of the new European institutional summits - that we work in a constructive and united spirit. How vital unity and cohesion are for the security of Europe itself reminds us of this, if ever needed, Turkish military intervention in North-East Syria, which puts at risk the stability and security of the entire region, causing new suffering to civilians and further displaced persons and hindering access to humanitarian assistance, to the point of putting at serious risk the prospects of the ongoing political process, led by the United Nations, for peace in Syria and the progress achieved so far by the global anti-Daesh coalition. This scenario is sadly symbolized by the killing of Kurdish activist Hevrin Khalaf. The Turkish decision therefore reiterates the urgent need for a common position, firm and resolute by the European Union. Italy, which has since been oriented, even unilaterally, towards a moratorium on the sale of arms to Turkey, has firmly wanted to be the subject of a debate at European level since the end of last week. After the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday, this moratorium takes on greater political value and greater effectiveness. The Italian Government, which immediately followed the measure to suspend the export of arms to Turkey, is convinced that action must be taken with the utmost determination, in order to avoid further suffering for the Syrian and Kurdish people in particular and to counter destabilising initiatives in the region. These objectives will be all the more effective if they are achieved through European coordination and multilateral coordination. It should also be stressed that the Turkish security concerns relating to the North-East of Syria must be addressed with political and diplomatic instruments, certainly never by military action and always in accordance with international law. Turkey will also be discussed at the European Council in relation to Ankara's interference in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. Italy continues to follow the situation with great attention and to participate in the concrete European solidarity, which I have also expressed personally in recent days, during a telephone conversation with the President of the Republic of Cyprus Anastasiadis. Italy invites Turkey - as highlighted by the Farnesina in the statement of October 5 last - to abstain from illegal actions. The European Union continued to be united in its support for Cyprus, and was ready to follow up on the targeted measures agreed at the European Council last June. At the same time, it is essential to avoid any escalation. Several Member States continue to look at Turkey, even after the Turkish President's unsatisfying statements on refugees. I have called such statements totally unacceptable. On the issue of migration, I continue to demand the priority of a balanced approach by the European Union. The conclusions of the European Council must not send out unbalanced signals on individual migratory routes: it would be the game of those who organise the trafficking of human beings and increase the divisions between Member States on how to implement that shared responsibility, which must also characterize European action in the field of migration on the basis of the Treaty's forecasts. As a whole, the debate will be an opportunity to underline to my European counterparts that the mechanism agreed on 23 September last in Malta and discussed after the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 7 and 8 October represents a significant - but not decisive, we are aware - step in a path that Italy frames in the construction of a sustainable and effective European system, both in redistribution, and, with equal priority, in return. It is a topic, the latter, on which the Italian Government is intensely engaged, as evidenced by the decree Safe Countries adopted recently. We must continue to work to ensure that Europe takes decisive and coordinated action on return, aimed at European readmission agreements and with a European list of safe countries of origin. We must also avoid pull factor phenomena: this is a primary interest of our country, which some Member States of the European Union unfortunately use to justify their lack of solidarity. Another issue on the agenda of the European Council, which is also crucial for the future of Europe, is Brexit. The deadline of 31 October 2019, as you know, and the risk of a no-deal approaching, while the negotiations on the revision of the so-called backstop on the Irish border have, in recent times, seen some progress, without yet reaching a decisive turning point. In this context, Italy is committed to two main objectives: the first is to protect our citizens and businesses from the uncertainty caused by the consequences of the no-deal in case of non-agreement; the second is to work until the last moment to find an agreement with the British, supporting the work done by the chief negotiator for the European Union Barnier, which we must recognize has been commendable, and avoiding sterile ripples of responsibility. At this stage we must reaffirm the unity between the 27 Member States of the European Union and support a pragmatic negotiating approach, without ideological conditioning. At the moment, two appear to be the main obstacles to reaching an agreement: the governance of the backstop, with a right of veto in Northern Ireland; the customs border between the two Irish, which remains standing and whose invisibility will remain all to be built during the transitional period without adequate legal guarantees. If we can overcome these problems by 31 October (but be careful: we also expect updates on these issues at any time), we will have an agreement; otherwise, we will have to prepare ourselves for the scenario of a new extension, if the British Government asks for it, or for an exit - alas - without agreement. In this last event, I would like to remind you that here in Italy we have already secured the country by adopting a decree-law Brexit, No. 22 of 2019, which Parliament has converted into Law No. 41 of 2019. We have also adopted several operational plans on customs, business assistance, financial services and citizens' rights, coordinated by a task force that I set up at Palazzo Chigi. Turning to the multiannual financial framework, this European Council can and must represent progress in a negotiation which, apparently, is only technical, but which instead - we are all aware of this - has a strong political value, because it defines the objectives and modalities of the European funds for the next decade, from 2021 to 2027, their adequacy and the ambitions that the European Union intends to pursue. Only apparently procedural, because it does not yet refer to conclusive decisions, is the debate at this European Council aimed at identifying the main points of the negotiations and at facilitating their next steps, in view of the December European Council, which should hopefully enable us to reach at least close to the final lines of the negotiations. However, the general nature of the debate and the conclusions must not be deceived: to reflect on issues such as the overall level of the multiannual financial framework, revenue, the allocation of resources between the different policies and the conditionality for the access and use of funds is not a theoretical exercise and affects areas where the sensitivity of the individual Member States of the Union - and therefore of our citizens - is absolutely high and unfortunately not uniform at all. It is well known that this negotiation is subject to complex approval procedures and various steps between European institutions (Commission, Parliament and Council), the duration of which is to be countered with the need to close an agreement in good time and initiate next year's programming for the timely use of funds since 2021. The pressure on the timing of the negotiations must not, however, reward the quality of the understanding that we will have to achieve: as happened at previous European Councils, I consider it essential to strongly reaffirm the priorities and those which I would define the red lines of the Italian position. In essence, we believe that the Commission's original proposal, although not ambitious, compared to what we and the European Parliament want, represents a sufficiently balanced compromise, both for the overall size of the resources and for their distribution between the various headings. The European Commission has proposed an expenditure ceiling of 1.11% of the gross national income of the 27 Member States. According to the data provided by the Commission itself, in taking into account the consequences of Brexit, the proposed volume is substantially similar to that of the current budget (divided between 27, of course); moreover, the overall state for our country improves. In view of these positive elements concerning the volume of expenditure, there are some critical issues relating to the distribution criteria, the method of expenditure and the functioning of certain conditionality. I refer in particular to the criterion of external convergence for the common agricultural policy, the relative prosperity index for cohesion, flexibility mechanisms, macroeconomic conditionality for the rule of law, new own resources and some other minor aspects. The proposal made by the Finnish Presidency in recent days seems to be equidistant between that of the Commission and that of the states which I would call minimalists, i.e. who want to limit total expenditure to 1% of the gross national income of the 27 countries. However, the signal coming from the Presidency's proposal is negative, because it ends up reducing the ambition of the budget itself and making it inadequate for what is at stake. A further reduction in the budget would cause serious difficulties for the Union in pursuing directly or supporting Member States in achieving objectives of excellence, research, innovation, action to protect the planet, in the investments needed to build a better Europe for our young people and in the management of migration flows. On the other hand, the debate in the European Council will have to take into account the indications received by the European Parliament for an even more ambitious budget, at 1.3%. With regard to revenue, our country has always supported the fundamental, but unfortunately still not shared, need to modernise the way in which the European Union finances its budget, primarily through the introduction of new own resources, which not only ease the dependence of the European budget on the contributions of the Member States, but also help to promote political priorities of the Union, such as a better and more effective functioning of the internal market and also its financing and progressive harmonisation of the tax framework in anti-dumping and anti-dumping terms. Over the last few months, we have continued our dialogue and dialogue with the European institutions and the Member States. At national level, this Government can rely on enhanced coordination, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of European Affairs, in close agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs, with the aim of identifying the real national capacities for attracting European funds and spending and identifying appropriate negotiating strategies. The timing of the next multiannual financial framework is also crucial for combating climate change. After the complex debate in June, the discussion at this European Council will be oriented in an international direction, so on the follow-up to the United Nations Climate Action Summit last September, in which on behalf of the Government I supported the objective of decarbonisation in 2050, I outlined the keys of our energy transition path and confirmed our commitment to COP25 and especially COP26, where, as you know, we are planning to implement a partnership with the United Kingdom. It remains essential for Italy to reach a consensus by overcoming the divisions, which also emerged at the June European Council with respect to a European ambition which for the Italian Government is also inescapable at national level. As you know, we have launched a green new deal to redirect the entire production system towards sustainable development and encourage the socially responsible behaviour of all economic actors. On Thursday, October 10, we approved in the Council of Ministers the decree-law on the climate, one of the fundamental pieces of this broader pact for the environment that the government, in a choral way, intends to pursue. Tonight, until a few hours ago, we also worked to approve the tax decree-law and the draft budget law, in which we will continue, with other measures, to pursue the green new deal. These are, on the whole, measures through which we intend to significantly strengthen the action to combat the climate emergency. I expect the issue of the environment to hold a fruitful debate on the next institutional cycle and on the implementation of the 2019-2024 Strategic Agenda, which was approved at the European Council last June. This debate will take place in the presence of the elected President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who has never put the environmental issue and its social implications at the heart of Europe's priorities and vision for the future. Without rapid and incisive action towards environmental and social objectives, without a decisive, courageous impetus from the European institutions, Europe will only be able to fuel disappointment in the citizens of the Continent - especially in young people - and mistrust among Member States. The environmental challenge, as well as the social challenge, suggests, in fact, inevitably, to bet on the collaboration between States and a renewed multilateralism, based on a shared agenda that rejects requests and impulses isolating and self-referential. The European Council will also address enlargement on the basis of the conclusions reached yesterday, 15 October, by the General Affairs Council. Italy continues to support the conclusions in favour of opening accession negotiations for Albania and Northern Macedonia. Yesterday I was in Albania: I wanted to give a tangible sign of the attention of our country, our government, to this country traditionally friend. We are also opposed to a decoupling decision with respect to the two countries because it would send a negative signal to the whole region. Therefore, we have already opposed in the preparatory work the differentiation of the fate of the two countries that had been envisaged. My visit to Tirana yesterday was characterized by the reaffirmation of the full and convinced Italian support for a positive decision for the European path of Tirana and Skopje to continue with a responsibly reformer approach of the leadership of those countries. It would be short-sighted, on the European side - and we will try to avoid it - to decide on a further postponement after last June's European Council than on a stage which, as I said, certainly does not attenuate the obligations of the two Balkan countries towards the European Union. It is a stage that has been projected for years but then always postponed. In essence, it is a question of understanding that a rejection, without even giving the opportunity to carry out the tasks at home, would take those countries away from the European horizon and greatly frustrate their populations who, for the most part, demand to be able to adhere to this prospect. This is not to be hoped for, especially given that enlargement is a process that allows Member States to monitor much more effectively once accession negotiations have started, as you know, because the issue on the agenda is not the decision on accession but the opening of accession negotiations. This would, of course, be a much more favourable perspective than an exclusion that would invite Tirana and Skopje to dynamics of political instability, with regional consequences as well. Then there is the possibility that, among the various issues foreshadowed, the issue of US duties can be discussed. As you know, the Italian Government follows this issue with the utmost attention, with the aim of avoiding that there can be a negative impact on Made in Italy. Together with all the Ministers, I intend to promote a constructive approach on this issue, in the context of bilateral negotiations with Washington. Europe's line must not only take into account our national sensibilities, but recognise and pursue the need to avoid a spiral of trade war, which would be detrimental to everyone. Even in the light of the sharp decline in international trade and the trade tensions between the United States and China, a protectionist spiral is, in fact, the least advisable route for two strategic partners such as the European Union and the United States, who should rather work together to develop a fair trade system, with equal access to the market, attention to the excluded, the marginalized of globalisation, attention to security, the fight against social, environmental and - I add - tax dumping. It is also essential to reflect in Brussels - and we intend to continue to be its promoters - on the identification of internal compensatory measures aimed at protecting the sectors most affected by American duties, not least, as we know, agricultural ones. Italy will continue to assert with conviction its position, as it has done so far, in the interlocutions with the American allies in order to protect our products and protect Italian interests. Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, a high-profile contribution can and must be made from our country to that common work for the future of Europe which European governments, together with the new European Commission and the European Parliament, are called upon to do. Full and thorough sharing of intentions and vision between the Government and Parliament on Italy's European priorities and positions at the various European Councils is essential in this respect. It is only in this integrated system and with Europe that we can build a better and sustainable future for the new generations, and we can hope to effectively protect the security and well-being of the Continent in the face of the growing global challenges and tensions that threaten the stability of the Mediterranean chessboard and, therefore, of the entire Continent. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT,UV) and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u27	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u28	I greet the students of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) "Vincenzo Arangio Ruiz" in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u29	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u30	Mr President, this European Council has become even more important in the light of the events that have affected the Turkish-Syrian border and beyond, so for flash I would like to try to pick up some points that the President of the Council raised. On the multiannual financial framework, I think we are working on a good compromise; improvements can still be made. I particularly appreciated the passage on own resources. I think that we should not yet rely on the finances of individual states, but we should also make an effort to innovate, for example on the issue of web tax and digital tax, to build extraordinary responses to the appeal that comes from public opinion, for example on the issue of combating climate change. As far as enlargement is concerned, our historic position, one of our cardinal points, is the focus on the Balkans and, therefore, the opening of negotiations, also reassuring some legitimate concerns of the French partner, must be pursued. In June, we made a commitment to start accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. I believe that this must be done and alliances must be built so that we can start. Well, yesterday's visit to Tirana. This morning we also gave a signal, as Senate, approving ratification for the entry of North Macedonia into NATO, after resolving the problem of the name. With France, cooperation is essential with regard to the multiannual framework to see if there is still room on the CAP to recover some additional resources, as that side has been penalised. Then there is the theme of migration. In the light above all of what is happening in Turkey, the proposals of the new President-designate Ursula von der Leyen need to be strengthened. On the subject of Frontex, the 10,000 extra border and coastal guards; to anticipate the date of entry into force to 2024 would give an important first signal also in Italy stressing the need to make European the defence of our coasts and patrolling in the Mediterranean. Similarly, it is important to overcome the Dublin Treaty. I would not like the attention shifted towards Turkey, towards the Balkan route, to stop the progress that has been made in Valletta and the idea of compulsory relocation: that is a fundamental point of our government's action, we ask for it as a Parliament and we put it in the majority resolution. Let us try to reason even if it is not appropriate to open a reflection on the overcoming of the taboo for which the Europe of 28 must always decide to 28 on everything. If on the problem of migration there are some countries that realize that on that issue we also play the sustainability of many policies within Europe it is time to make a qualitative leap and, therefore, to hit also those countries that have been helped in the past, to which the doors of Europe have been opened - we have helped them with the funds for the regions of the South of our country, the South of Spain and the South of Greece - and that today tell us no. I think that some sanctions mechanism for those who are not there should be put in place and the government does well if it acts in this direction. As for Brexit, the assurances to our Italian citizens are good and we appreciate the work that the Government is doing. I would add, however, that we must remain firm; I am pleased to hear progress, for example, on the backstop clause, but be careful to combine the different needs of a single economy within the island of Ireland, the need to respect the agreements of Good Friday and the rules of our single market. These are the points in which we must act as a government; we must not give a signal of weakness towards a government that has messed up. Finally, there is the issue of Turkey. I think it is right to accept the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of the other day and give an immediate signal on the blocking of arms sales to Turkey and the safeguarding of the principle of territorial integrity. I am pleased that the attention is also extended to drilling in the eastern Mediterranean and the territorial waters of Cyprus. It is an important signal to Turkey, which is an important military and economic partner of ours, but that does not prevent us from saying that we are extremely concerned. Action must be taken in all international fora (Europe and NATO) to ensure that there is an immediate ceasefire, respect for territorial integrity and the protection of the civilian population. From this point of view, we must give a strong signal, which has already started from public opinion; we in Parliament raised it last week and put it in our resolutions. We also need a strong signal from the Government so that it does not merely accept what has already been defined in Europe. Let us not be hypocritical: we must make it clear that Turkey remains our partner, but at the same time we must build conditions for there to be a firm response with full respect for the principle of territorial integrity and immediate sanctions with the stop selling of arms. I think that this is a contribution so that Europe too can speak with one voice. I am pleased that the President of the Commission writes in her document that we must overcome the idea that we must always decide unanimously on these issues. It is a reflection that also this Government must make; we can no longer be blocked. If Europe wants to speak with one voice in the main challenges, it must put itself on the issue of how to also address a reform of the governance of the European Union. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u32	Mr President, in fact there is little to say about not having a great deal of communication from the President. In fact, if we may say so, he didn't say anything at all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This also gives the measure of what - quoting - is a bit the super-cock of this government: putting words without content. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Don't feel bad about it because you could demonstrate your enthusiasm by applauding, but there was no applause about President Conte's speech even from the aspiring Capigroup Perilli and Toninelli, who were to mind their own business, even though they were well disposed to the speech of President Count attorney. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is clear that there is detachment and little confidence about this. Mr Conte, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow he will go to the European Council to be a peacock. She will open her wheel, but look around and notice who looks at her what kind of attitude she will have towards her and towards our country. Something has changed: there is no longer an emergency; it is no longer the champion to support because something must be done not to send the country to the vote. Now he does a little what - quoting - would do the useful idiot, the one that is kept there to hold a position, but without any added value.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u33	Please watch your language.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u34	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, these are quotations; they are not my words. It's a cliché. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u35	I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u36	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It would be enough to go down the street and listen to people's reflections. It looks good with the tie knot well made, as Professor Alpa may have taught you. Making empty speeches is not an added value to bring in politics and, above all, within the Assembly of Government. President Conte, we would like to see something more concrete because what we have demonstrated in the year of government together is now totally neglected. In fact, piece by piece, always for the sake of the European Union that asks you, you are trying to dismantle what has been done, starting at 100, to arrive at the so-called immigration decree. But wasn't Malta that great success you achieved in a few days after Salvini had done nothing in a year? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Aren't you the ones who, in a few hours, solved all the immigration problems? You're the ones who made fun of the Italians. You went to get ridiculed by France and Germany, Merkel and Macron. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And you have not even been aware of it, so much so that now you are well guarded from stigmatizing those words, because you know very well that what is happening is the exact opposite. We are now returning to the refugee camp of Europe, abandoned to ourselves. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what you have done with your wretched policies of "re-immigration" in favour of the scafists. As for the management of the accounts and the rigour, you are all statesmen except understanding. You should also say this tomorrow at the European Council, namely that you are going to do without agreement. In fact, the understanding between you is still far from being found and you will not find them except for the will to remain in the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President Conte, perhaps you are trying to find new support today, but you have to go to Avellino - you did it the other day - from octogenarians and 90-year-olds like De Mita, Mancino and Bianco, to take the honorary degree of Christian Democrat. If this is the figure of the new Government Count 2, congratulations. Not only have you resurrected the old rules of the first Republic, which you had to replace so much (I am thinking of the tuna and sardines box), but you even have a President of the Council who is going to pay tribute to the Christian Democrat movement that brought us to the 1990s and to everything we know. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] She's a long way from even having a little status as a statesman. Mr Conte, will you still meet with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini in the coming days? I think so, but if you don't meet her, talk to your majority shareholder, Renzi. In fact, even in recent days we have seen the voidness of the European Union, which makes the exact pair with his speech today (totally empty, indeed) and - even - we have for five years in the European Union a representative who now, at the end of his mandate, says that he does not even want to go back to Italy because he feels totally different from this country. But how, your political side has returned to the government of this country and you don't even want to go back? It's a little paradoxical. It is clear that this is the Government of paradoxes, which you - unfortunately - will bring to the European Council. Therefore, the looks that will be found will no longer be those of Merkel when he drank a sip of beer at the bar whispering them in the ear, but those of a Merkel who has now done his service and for which she, I repeat, is the useful idiot today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u37	I do not think it is useful for anyone to use a certain type of language to express even their dissent. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I had found something positive in the debate, namely that the stage choirs that we were used to in the previous fifteen months were finally over. FADELI (PD). Bravo! BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I would like this mutual respect, without insulting anyone, to become the normal and correct way of confronting ourselves in a liberal democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to begin by wishing you very much good work at this summit, which will deal with essential issues, such as those you have listed. I'm starting with the maybe less flashy one. I was very disappointed, yesterday, by the behaviour of some European partners, in yet another postponement of the opening of negotiations with Albania and Macedonia. I do not think it is useful to feed disappointments and frustrations in an overall region so close to Europe and so important to us. I really would like us not to repeat the mistake we made with Turkey back in 2004. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Indeed, when the European Council opened negotiations unanimously, during the first years of Erdoğan's reforms, we all knew that those negotiations would last at least twenty years, but it was important to anchor Turkey in Europe, and as you remember, these commitments were ignored a few months later by Sarkozy and also by Mrs Merkel, when they went back on the distant proposal for accession, proposing instead the special partnership that no one, not even the Turks, has ever understood what it was. From there came a series of commitments made and ignored, of mistakes, of hopes, of mutual disappointments and frustrations. Today the scenario has completely changed, but let us always remember that Erdoğan is not eternal and that some signs of opposition, such as the recent electoral defeat in the largest and most important Turkish cities, even in Anatolia, which is a fief of origin, must at least attract our attention, because there is nothing more fragile than politics, but there is nothing more stable than geography. This is a country that today behaves in an unacceptable way with the Kurds, who abandons them after they have been our most reliable allies in the Middle East in the fight against terrorism (against Daesh and others), who today are victims of an unpredictable as well as irresponsible and even irresponsible, in my opinion, President of the United States of America, as well as an inability, which you have well stressed, on the part of Europe to move more decisively towards a common foreign and defence policy. From this point of view, I just wanted to point out a few issues. Firstly, we see that the focus on Syria does not fail to focus on Libya. We must absolutely face up to this clash of conflicts and super-conflicts that intersect. Secondly, I would ask you to clarify whether the Italian moratorium on arms exports applies to future orders or even to current orders. Finally, what is the point of the presence of the NATO mission "Active Fence"? It is a mission in which 130 men are engaged, between Italians and Spanish, wanted to protect the Turks from possible Kurdish attacks. I ask you if you can at least review the mandate, not only to avoid easy irony, but also because you understand very well that having a NATO mission to protect the Turks from possible Kurdish attacks in this situation is frankly not very credible. I repeat, however, my wish for good work. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB, PD and IV-PSI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u39	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the images that have come to us from Syria for days, following the bombing of Erdoğan's Turkey, are devastating: torn bodies, children, displaced women and men, an entire people under attack. The UN is talking about more than 100,000 displaced people, but they are probably already many more, and above all they are going to increase again, since over half a million people live in the area. They are those people and those Kurdish soldiers who, with their courage and struggle, have made themselves artificers of the defeat of the jihadist formation, which had profiled itself through the use of terror and violence. It is a situation closely linked to the fate of Europe itself, Mr President, and we must take it very seriously, not only because it is likely that, if we do not proceed to an immediate ceasefire, those displaced persons may arrive, with even important numbers, as refugees in Europe, but also because the problem of ISIS militiamen, held captive in refugee camps and so far controlled by the Kurds, arises. We are talking about more than 12,000 militiamen who would be a real danger if, taking advantage of the chaos in progress, they arrived in Europe, perhaps mixed with the other refugees, and set in motion those terrorist attacks of which we have unfortunately well known the horror and consequences in the past years. Therefore, even in view of the fact that violent riots have already occurred in some areas and the flight of hundreds of these militiamen is already known, it is absolutely important for the Council of Europe to take decisions as univocal and especially binding as possible. We need an immediate ceasefire, which is urgently ordered by the United Nations Security Council. After that, it is desirable that the European components of the United Nations Security Council, during the United Nations Security Council itself, should request a delegation to implement peace enforcement, peacekeeping and peacebuilding actions, including by using a force under the military control of the European Union, on the UNIFIL model, in the framework of permanent structured cooperation (CFSPO): all instruments already in place, in compliance with NATO's own statute, which can make a concrete contribution. Similarly, Turkey cannot feel free to continue its oil drilling activities off Cyprus. On this too, European sanctions should be imposed on Turkey. Then there is the whole lot of refugees, on which already in Malta's pre-summit, in fact, important indications have been reached, which must also be reiterated at European level. We need Italy to speak again in Europe with a loud and clear voice. We support you, Mr President, when you say in your public statements that Europe must not be intimidated by Erdoğan's threats. We have listened to the statements made by colleagues in the League, who seemingly speak of politics, but in reality they do not deal with the issues, they do not bring solutions and they do not give answers. This kind of policy, which Italy represented in Europe only a few months ago, gives no answer and above all does not allow us to be protagonists in Europe. On the other hand, we, the President, ask - and we are at your side - for Italy to return to being the protagonist and also give indications of such dramatic issues as those that are affecting Syria and the areas that are neighbouring us. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u41	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, distinguished members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the anniversary of the deportation of the Jews from the ghetto in Rome. How can we not think of that horror, which is one of the gravest sins, one of the most dangerous shoots of Europe's tragic journey, then as today? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. In 1989 we were all convinced that Europe would be invincible, because since then it was no longer a mere economic identity, but a precise political project, as a common future. Thirty years later, the dream remains, but we have to ask ourselves how far it can still be pursued. It is no longer shared by the United Kingdom, which does not pose the problem if Brexit can harm its citizens; how much serious discomfort it brings to the Scots, who had already expressed the desire for independence; how much imbalance it will bring to Europe, the unpredictable consequences that the fearful rigid border with Northern Ireland may have. A key issue at this time is also the Catalan one. It is difficult to accept the violence that is taking place in these hours in Catalonia, as well as those inflicted by the forces of order during the referendum; it is difficult to remain indifferent to the condemnation of nine deeply European Catalan politicians for a hundred years in prison; it is difficult not to stress that elected MEPs are not allowed to honour their mandate democratically; it is difficult, however, to follow without hesitation a desire for secession within the European Union. It is necessary for my country to contribute at Community level to the definition of a framework that meets the demand for more self-government and respect for laws and law. The right to self-determination of peoples has followed many passages of Europe in the last quarter of the twentieth century and in these first decades of the new millennium, redefining the internal borders of our continent: from belonging to the Slovenian minority of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, I am witnessing it myself, having followed with pain and trepidation the process of independence of the Republic of Slovenia, now a full member of the European Union and of the Schengen Agreement. Today, therefore, we are faced with a crisis in the traditional framework of the regulatory principles of the international system, and in this scenario the European Council must take responsibility for taking decisions. In this context, the method of unanimity shows all its limitations and the necessary consequence is that it is exceeded. Our country has never shirked from the duty to assume the responsibilities of dialogue and the concrete pursuit of the same also on the field. The war in Syria is the most dangerous and disruptive event we are called to respond to. We repeat that Europe, not just the individual Member States, must take its own political initiative, but it is not enough to say that it must begin to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Taking responsibility for taking an initiative is a burden that we cannot give up if we also need to offer a military capacity to guarantee peace and security in the area, asking the UN and the United States to do the same. It seemed that any misunderstanding could be avoided by Turkey's membership of NATO; all the dissuasive options that we can and must put in place to stop a humanitarian tragedy capable of destabilising Europe and Italy have already been listed. Let us not forget what the Balkan route was just a few years ago, the consequences it had. To intervene means to prevent; for this reason I call for Italy to speak with everyone and everyone at the European Council, so that we can create the broadest consensus on effective dissuasive actions that can be a sign of a straightforward European protagonism. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we ask you to take this initiative to Europe, to work on a broad horizon and on a multi-level basis. The hope is that he will be able to return with the agreement for a strong, concise and choral response; what could not be understood (and would be outside the aspirations that propitiated the birth of this Government) would be the postponement, inertia and bureaucratic resignation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u43	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u44	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened with great curiosity to your speech. In the next few days, you will have the task of representing the government in office at the European Council and will do so in such a way as to try to bring home - forgive me the people's or populist jargon - the objectives that you, and only you, regard as a priority. [[Brusio]] The President-in-Office of the Council has rightly asked for a minimum of attention, so I would ask colleagues to listen. I think we all have a duty to listen. I have to tell you something: sitting in the Council, you'll be alone. While in the past she had an understanding of people behind her, today she has Renzi and Zingaretti behind her. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] European policies will be discussed and it will be said that everything will change so that nothing changes. Mr von der Leyen, your President, will be discussed on the agenda. Lines that will see it in its latest version, the most influential one as someone would say. Allow me, President: you and your government have not become more influential but simply complacent and condescending. I think there's a lot of difference. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Among other things, you will be able to ask for feedback and clarification - and I believe you should do so - on the much praised new innovative line on immigration. That line that brought enormous results, a line that he quoted in an ethereal way in his speech, perhaps because he is disavowed by facts, by data. On this occasion, please inform and ask your fellow Europeans for clarification because I do not think they are so convinced. We're not talking about Visegrád. Let's talk about other countries. Another important topic on the agenda, dealt with in a broad way in his speech but also in a somewhat distressed way, allow me, is that of climate change, an important issue, we realize this, but, let me still, hyperabused, especially today and here, even if only to try to cement a majority in the race. Today, its much praised green new deal appears to be devoid of concrete content for the benefit of the citizens, because that is the objective we must look at. We'll see if your rules will benefit someone or something. Today, in your budget, I do not think there are such epochal measures, but perhaps revolutionaries only have to be made in words, provided that the concept of climate neutrality, mentioned in your speech in New York (I was there, President, so I had the opportunity to listen to it firsthand) does not correspond to a concept of neutrality of action. Basically, say everything to do nothing. Turning then to the issues which I consider most urgent and most real, because they are human lives, I cannot fail to highlight the issue of Turkey. Yesterday's sources, I do not know if they knew, said that it would not be of prime interest in the European Council to debate the responsibilities of Turkey and its unholy conduct, beyond all the agendas that can be accepted. Only a few weeks ago, at the bilateral meeting at the General Assembly of the United Nations, as an Italian delegation, we had the opportunity to meet the representative of the Turkish Government. I was present and the representative of the Turkish Government said that Turkey's occupation of a 25-kilometer band in Syrian territory would serve simply to secure the refugee post and to ensure the security of Syria. I would like to say more: this representative told us that refugee camps would be set up in this area of 25 kilometres. He did not use this term, but spoke of a series of small villas with vegetable gardens, so that everyone can maintain and cultivate their own food for their own needs. He added that this would obviously be done at the expense of Europe. Allow me, President: if it is true that it is not of priority at the European Council to talk about what is happening, or rather it is not of priority to take the concrete actions so requested in this House, forgive me, but what are we doing in Europe? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I, too, am a convinced European - and I say this very loudly - but if we do not put our weight in the official seats and do not really do something concrete, Europe really does not do anything. We are not talking about military actions, we are talking about something on which we all agree and which is for the benefit of the Kurdish people. We are talking about people who are dying and who are the subject of genocide. Are we gonna tell each other or not? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At the NATO Assembly a few days ago, the representatives of the Turkish Government said that they basically guarantee security. But do we know what we're talking about? Someone, the representative of the Armenian Government, tried to express his disagreement, but he was not given the floor to reply. This is the international climate in which we move. I shall conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would just like to say one thing. You once said you were the people's lawyer and then challenged the term populist, because it should have been understood in a more correct way, that is, what we consider to be the same. Today these things have probably gone out of fashion: all right, let's take note. However, if you want to go to the European Council as a mere official of a sentimentless majority, go quietly, but be aware of your precariousness. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next European Council is a crucial moment for the Union, especially for our country. It is undeniable that many unresolved issues, which afflict the country, can only be resolved if they are addressed at European level. We owe this to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Despite the proclamations, the evidence of force and propaganda commercials of his previous Government, among the issues to be addressed there is still, alas, that of the management of uncontrolled migratory flows. For too long we have been forced to face, in almost total loneliness, the consequences linked to the sharpening of migratory waves, also following the wicked choice to destabilize Libya, a decision on which Forza Italia - I remember - immediately showed all its perplexities. On several occasions, even in this House, I have supported the need to demand more effectively, in the European Parliament, a genuine Community solution and not just a front. Unfortunately, however, in the light of the facts, we have witnessed, on the part of governments that have succeeded in recent years, including its President Conte, a pale acquiescence on empty agreements, without content, or useless arms of iron and desertion of European appointments, which have contributed, among other things, to increasing the distance between citizens and European institutions, as well as to blowing on the fire of Eurosceptic propaganda. Finally, on the Malta agreement, you have now spoken, in this House - I use your words - of a significant stopover. Well, your Government has presented this agreement with triumphalistic tones, as a great achievement, but it appears to us as yet another palliative, which presents many critical issues, on which it is necessary to discuss to the next Council, Mr President. First of all, the recipients of the agreement will be only the migrants rescued from the ships that will ask for a safe port, not those that arrive independently, that is to say the majority. The numbers speak for themselves: this year, over 5,000 of the 6,500 landing sites are part of the second category. This agreement, therefore, runs the risk of encouraging the under-the-counter relations between hullists and NGOs, which will realistically start to fill up migrants. Another important critical point is the mechanism of rotation of the ports, which takes place not on a compulsory basis, but on a voluntary basis. The same principle of voluntaryness is the real crux of all recent attempts to resolve the migration issue. As far as the Malta agreement is concerned, it is good to point out - you should have done so, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, just now in this House - that accession is only on a voluntary basis. This causes individual countries to bend to selfish logics. It is clear that the States of Visegrád are Europeanists when it comes to receiving funds to build infrastructure, schools and hospitals, but they become Eurosceptics and self-referential when it comes to doing their part in welcoming migrants. Not only that; even the countries that seem to be more supportive in words have pulled back to the test of the facts and you know it well. How can we forget the rejections carried out by Macron's France on the border with Italy or the recent behavior of Spain by the Socialist Sanchez, whose Government first criticized Rome for the poor management of the migration phenomenon and then decided to accept only fifteen - I repeat: fifteen - of the hundred and ten migrants present on the Open Arms following the rescue operation in August? Open Arms that, it is worth remembering, beats its Spanish flag. Precisely for this reason, President Conte, it is absolutely necessary for Italy to promote a solution that overcomes the mechanism of voluntary accession: until then we will have done nothing. If this is not possible, we will need at least sanction mechanisms - you should agree with us - for countries that refuse to accede to this agreement. In any case, we need an organic reform of European asylum and an overcoming of the Dublin Regulation. A viable way could be through so-called enhanced cooperation, a mechanism provided for in the Treaties that provides for the possibility of approving a reform by overcoming the approval mechanism unanimously and involving a number of at least nine Member States. A procedure that allows countries to move at different speeds and through which they have arrived in the past to approve the Schengen Treaty or to introduce the euro. Well, if you promote it, President Conte, you should promote this enhanced cooperation procedure, do it with courage and conviction! Another issue which I hope you will address in the Council, Mr President, is precisely that of our Mezzogiorno. We need to go beyond the special economic zones. So why not propose that the time-based establishment of zero tax and bureaucracy areas be assessed? Its Government should also respond to the Union by allocating the resources that Italy has committed itself to investing in the Mezzogiorno. The European Commission, in fact, has issued a warning to our country in recent days - it will have followed it - because it does not invest what has been agreed in the South. If this does not change, we will have to cut the structural funds. Mr Conte, act to give a positive response to the call from Europe and the European Commission. How do you intend to act on this point? The previous government, which you yourself led, totally forgot the South. I hope that today you, with this new government of yours, will change course. I am pleased to learn that anti-European and anti-euro leaders have repented these days and have pointed out that Italy's membership of the single currency and the European Union is not under discussion. Well, now is the time to move compactly (we all agree), because being patriots and sovereignists does not mean isolating the country and erecting walls, but taking national interests forward with the art of diplomacy. In fact, our President, Mr Berlusconi, spoke with good reason about enlightened sovereignism. Finally, I am pleased that your ideas are clear about Turkey. You seemed very clear just now: the attack on the Kurdish people is an unacceptable violation of international law. It is going to destabilise even more a region already tormented by the war and to hit the protagonist people of the struggle - let us never forget - to the terrorists of ISIS. Do we want to forget that, even before the intervention of Russians and Americans, in Syria were the only Kurds to fight the Islamic State? Not to mention the Cyprus issue, which has not seen a solution for years. Mr President, we want Italy to take a strong and decisive position towards the European Union. We want strict sanctions for Turkey by dictator Erdoğan, who has made his country take so many steps backwards in the face of secularization, rights and freedom. We therefore hope that your good intentions will be followed by concrete actions: you are very good with words, but we want the facts; only in this way can you convince us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u47	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Luigi Angeloni in Frosinone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u49	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today I am speaking with a view to your participation in the European Council in order to bring to your attention, and to the attention of all my fellow senators, a subject which is different from those which have been discussed so far, but equally important. This is the problem of the Mafia criminal organisations in Europe. According to recent studies and data from Europol and Eurojust, namely the police and the European judiciary, some 5,000 Mafia organisations besides Italian organisations are under investigation in the 28 Member States of the European Union. They are the Russian mafia, the Turkish mafia, the Albanian clan, the Vietnamese clan, the Syrian mafia and others. This allows us to say that no corner of Europe is free from the mafia and that the Italian mafia, operating transnationally, is no longer just an Italian problem. Well, despite this worrying fact, I must highlight to you the almost total lack of European anti-mafia legislation, capable of punishing those who are part of it, of discovering and blocking illicit trafficking and profits from drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings destined for exploitation at work or sexually, from counterfeiting, which often sees the alliance between Camorra and Chinese groups. Let us also think of agromafias, the laundering of the same dirty money. I am thinking of the Dutch survey of the flower market and, finally, the smuggling of migrants. Almost all irregular migrants arriving in the European Union, by land or sea, have paid for a criminal organisation. All illegal activities, which do not kill, but which are a source of huge gains, which are then recycled in the legal circuits, conditioning the economic and social life of pieces of the territory, with considerable damage to the healthy economy, the market and free competition. Let us think of the same great European contracts, assaulted by the Italian mafia, which, however, outside our jurisdiction, no longer has controls, because there is no anti-mafia certification in Europe. It is necessary, then, that the European legislator should also issue rules to exclude from contracts those who are in the smell of mafia and that the Member States of the European Union, as requested many times by the European Parliament, with reports, directives and resolutions, adopt all the necessary means of combating mafias, inspired by the most advanced Italian legislation, the only one, I repeat: the only one, which provides for the crime of Mafia association, referred to in Article 416 bis of the Criminal Code, and the possibility of confiscating goods to organized crime even in the absence of a definitive criminal conviction, if the accused or suspect is not able to justify the lawful origin of the goods. Not to mention the state-of-the-art legislation providing for the public and social re-use of property confiscated from the Mafia. Just as we need more streamlined procedures and more international cooperation to make the European Public Prosecutor really work better. It is in this framework, which is certainly not upbuilding, that I would like to reiterate that Italy has legislation on combating the truly avant-garde mafias, which does not exist elsewhere and which, far from being modified or deleted, must be taken as an example by all the Member States of the European Union. I am also referring to what has happened recently with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights which, although issued by a body outside the European Union, demonstrates precisely the lack of knowledge of our anti-mafia legislation at European level. The Court of Strasbourg rejected the Italian State's appeal against the decision given on the case of the boss of the 'ndrangheta Marcello Viola, a multi-murderer, known for having decapitated his enemy and playing shooting at the target in a square with his head. Well, the Grand Court, the Court of Strasbourg, has defined the life imprisonment provided for by our prison order under Article 4-a as inhuman and degrading treatment, thus erasing years and years of extraordinary results in the fight against the mafia, through those who, even after the conviction, collaborated with justice, including - I remember - the two affiliates who allowed the condemnation of Marcello Viola; consequently, deleting the same memory as judges Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino and all the countless innocent victims at the hands of the mafia and its criminal heinous. We remember that article 4 -bis of the penitentiary order was introduced just after the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio. The Court of Strasbourg states that the Italian State violates Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as it imposes life imprisonment on Mafia convicted persons who decide not to cooperate, because the judges consider that, even in the absence of cooperation with justice, it is not said that the sentenced person has not repented of his acts, that he is not dissociated from criminal groups or that he constitutes a danger to society. Therefore, they conclude that even in the absence of cooperation from the sentenced to life imprisonment for Mafia crimes, the benefits of law should be recognised. But, Mr President, I wonder: if in our system we delete Article 4-bis and extend the prison benefits also to the life sentence sentenced to life imprisonment that does not work in practice, who will ever again cooperate with Italian justice? The answer is disarming: no one. But the Mafia does not fight without weapons, Mr President, because the Mafia is a solid, stratified, organized structure. How can the Court of Strasbourg state that non-cooperation does not necessarily mean that the mafioso sentenced to life imprisonment is not repentant? On the basis of what elements, then, should the magistrate evaluate the occurrence and certain repentance, distinguishing it from a strategic behavior put in place to arrive at the result of using the rewards and, thanks to them, strengthen the bond with the criminal associations of belonging? Let us not forget that the anti-Mafia magistrates have made known a staggering fact, according to which the most loyal to the rules imposed by prison are precisely the mob bosses. Our order has been far-sighted and has created a balance, according to which the State grants benefits if there is a repentance and collaboration with justice represents with certainty the guarantee that the sentenced person decides to make legality prevail. Collaboration, therefore, does not betray but confirms the re-educational purpose of the sentence, referred to in Article 27 of our Constitution, because only the one who, being sentenced to life imprisonment for Mafia crimes, collaborates with justice gives evidence of a re-education in place, because it breaks the link with the criminal association in order to make the respect of the rules of civil life prevail. Therefore, far from providing for inhuman treatment, Article 4-bis of the penitentiary order provides for a legitimate request to assume responsibility for the commission of crimes, in the name of the primary interest of the protection of the community. Pending the decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to end by wishing that you can speak at the European Council on all these issues and the urgent need for anti-mafia legislation at European level, as well as guaranteeing our excellent and cutting-edge anti-mafia legislation, to which the other Member States of the European Union should also comply. I wish you a great deal of work, including on the issues you have discussed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u50	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your statements on the forthcoming European Council on the clarity of Italy's position in Europe go in the right direction, which we appreciate. Listening also to colleagues in the League, I think we should clarify some points; colleagues in the League should also do so. If I understand correctly, it has been noted that the so-called sovereignist policy in Europe has failed. It has been noted that, for example, the Visegrad countries are the first opponents of those policies, for example on immigration, which are essential for our country. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that Europe's restrictive policies in recent years have in turn failed. I wonder, then, also considering the merits of the communications made by the President of the Council, why it is not possible for this Parliament, on certain fundamental points, to take a step forward. Let's look at the concreteness to which you referred. First of all, we are faced with a very critical situation: the figures from the Monetary Fund speak for themselves. The risk of slowing down is a reality at world level and the war of duties creates enormous problems in the first place to countries like ours, or like Germany, which make a fundamental element of their industrial supply chain and export capacity. I think we agree on that. Secondly, climate change, as I said in another speech, is not a demagogic expression of someone, it is a real problem: it exists. We are facing a structural change in the development model which requires new industrial policies, new system policies (Italian, European and global) without which we will not go anywhere. On Syria, the irresponsible and very serious attack of Turkey, a NATO member country, on the Kurdish people - I say this quite clearly - proposes a major issue which concerns international policy: the right of States and peoples, on which no negotiation, neither economic nor immigration is possible. I have appreciated your clear, clear and timely choice on this point, Mr President: it is not acceptable - I say it explicitly, I can say it more clearly than you - any kind of blackmail against Europe by Turkey. We should then put in place specific policies. Firstly, European economic governance: this is the first point. On the subject, I would like to make it clear that for us, for the choices made by this Government, to open a new chapter to relaunch domestic consumption in Europe and Italy is essential. This is, firstly, about our relationship with Germany, and on this point we could find a relationship, a relationship. We must not make a political agreement, but on this point it is the interest of Italy to have a more significant force on the part of the country and Parliament to push in this direction. Just as it is essential to open up new policies, placing green investment outside the Stability Pact. You agree, don't you? We are convinced of this, we have been proposing it for a long time and I think you agree too. Secondly, changing governance means that we must decide not only and exclusively with the principle of unanimity. It is a choice on which we must begin to move, perhaps by building an alliance without bombing and without offending, without going to the confrontation, which has brought nothing. I always remind you, write it: from 2.4% to 2.04 percent; that policy doesn't go anywhere. It is essential to make alliances in order to deal with the double issue of compulsory redistribution, return and the list of safe countries, and on this I think we could try to make at least one piece of the road together, rather than go to the clash with the President of the Council. I would also like to add one more thing, and I think we will agree on that too. If there is no agreement, if there are countries in Europe that do not accept solidarity and do not respect the fundamental principles, then we use the leverage of intervention on economic issues: they have to pay a price. We must succeed in achieving this result, because then the discourse and confrontation would be more equal between the different countries of the Union. In this way no one could hide behind unanimity - a fairly simple game - but instead he should deal with his and our problems, because this is Europe. Either you make a summary, or you don't go anywhere. I am only making two very brief demands, because I agree with the rest. I would like to stress that on the part of cohesion policies and the CAP, there is the problem of discussing, not only - as you rightly said - the respective quotas for the different policies. There are conditionality and rules. On this point Italy has always suffered a blow of competence and subordination, which have a sign that everything goes in favour of some countries: this is a problem that we have to pose. When we go to discuss the CAP, when we go to discuss the rules... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Errani, you have to finish your speech. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). One more thing. I have already said what I think about Syria and I agree with it: on this point we need a force of interposition, a ceasefire and we ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to stop the contracts and the arms trade now. Now. Let's be clear: they don't need it now, they already have it. And this would be a necessary reflection for all the European countries and also for the United States. However, it would be a political signal: you cannot do what you want and you cannot lead us to the risk of a new broad conflict in the Middle East and to pay the price of the release of so many terrorists. We must be clear, clear and consistent in this respect and I believe that this position will pay us. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u52	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u53	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, the new European institutional framework, which emerged from last May's elections, seems not enough to bring together and secure the future of Europeans, now that, in any case, the sovereignist forces, especially those fomented by the League, have been defeated by those who, like us, demand a new start, intend to work for Europe, to renew it in relation to new and more traditional challenges of internal politics and of relation with the external world characterized by continuous evolutions and continuous tensions, where the traditional borders - this is the characteristic of today - between East and West seem to be no longer enough to define the new relations. Well then the start of the pre-accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. Today is the time of courage for the European Union and it is time for Italy to come back to believe in the role that history assigns us in indicating a possible process of a Union that already offers the most advanced legislation on social protection, human health and environmental sustainability. Faced with crucial challenges such as the threat of climate change, social, gender, intergenerational inequalities, in the face of new protectionisms, the contraction of international trade, but also in the face of the demographic challenge, the transformation of work with new digital and technological skills, this seems to be the time of important decisions, of choices that have a long horizon. The new humanism for Europe therefore passes from its ability to give future generations and our children a legal reality enriched with new forms of institutional governance, but also economic governance, programming capacity beyond a legislature. Mr President, Europe is called not only to improve what it is already able to do, but to have more strength to achieve what it is not yet able to do. For a greener, fairer and stronger Europe, it will not be enough to defend the rule of law, but it will be necessary to move towards a broader Community welfare, the so-called social pillar. New challenges and new priorities will have to find financial coverage solutions in the new multiannual framework with the expected increase in own resources, starting - hopefully - from a single web tax or carbon tax, but also with the redefinition of stability and growth indicators within the European Semester process. We absolutely agree: green investment must be decommissioned from the parameters of balance-of-budget, as already indicated in the climate summit in New York on 23 September. We are also in favour of a common tax harmonisation policy. For security policy, it will be necessary to strengthen cooperation in foreign policy, common defence and, above all, to share the need for Europe to speak with one voice in international fora in the face of new conflicts, such as in Turkey, in the face of the US's Laissez-faire policy, in the face of Erdoğan's unacceptable blackmail. The arms embargo will not be enough, but exemplary sanctions will be needed. Finally, we need a common migration policy, which cannot be separated from a policy for Africa, external border control, which strengthens the system of humanitarian corridors, but with a common system of the right of asylum, return and mandatory relocations to overcome the limits of the Dublin agreement. Mr President, Italy has abandoned the isolationist policy of the previous Government and, in particular, of the League (I repeat). There are, therefore, all the conditions because we can compete with our heritage of values to draw the horizon of a process of integration that we must never take for granted and Brexit is its emblem. The risk of hard Brexit must be avoided, because it would harm more than half a million Italian citizens and many businesses. Europe must therefore always consider itself at a crossroads, but it must also always consider itself as a unique and possible means of a common destiny. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u55	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are here because tomorrow you will be participating in the European Council in which the new policy of the European Commission will take shape. It is a new Commission that will see Italy weaker, as demonstrated also by its composition, which sees the presence of even eight Vice Presidents (as to say that a Vice President is not denied to anyone, it is denied only to Italy). A Commission in which Germany took full control: before it acted as a proxy, today it takes the lead of the European Commission directly into its hands. It is as if the capital has moved from Brussels to Berlin. In this Commission you now appear as a veteran, because I believe that this is the fourth or fifth debate in which you present the addresses of your Government - the first Conte Government and now the second Conte Government - in view of the European Council. But you are weaker, as shown by yesterday's figures from the International Monetary Fund, which show that Italy is the only country in the European Union that is stagnating. In the last year the Count Government one and the new Count Government two have greatly weakened Italy as regards both the composition of the European Commission (I add that to the European Central Bank there will be no longer Governor Draghi, but a French governor), and the posture of our country, which is weaker and more bent on itself, with zero growth and with the public debt rising. In this context, I would like to concentrate my speech only on two aspects, which represent two emergencies, because we have already discussed a great deal in this Parliament over the past 16 months and you know, Mr President-in-Office, that our positions do not change, even if we know that yours change and also very often. I would like to focus on two aspects: customs duties and Turkey, which are two specific threats to Italy. First of all, I would like to mention the punitive duties that President Trump has obtained from the World Trade Organization, although - to be honest - the previous Presidents have obtained them, because this punitive action has been requested by President Bush and supported by President Obama, it has nothing to do with the bad Trump, who has obtained from the court of punitive retaliation duties. Well, there have already been talks here in Rome and we know that you have not managed to achieve what you, Mr Conte, rightly request, through a bilateral, as well as multilateral relationship, namely the exemption of Italian companies. Moreover, we have nothing to do with the subsidy measures that France and Germany have taken for Airbus, and on many other occasions we have managed to have Italian companies excluded from back-up measures. It happened in the early 2000s - it was us in the government - when we managed to have Italian companies excluded from the steel duties that were then illegally introduced by the US Government. The five Italian companies that were on the first list (we were the first producers in Europe) were excluded thanks to the bilateral action of the Italian Government. It was the same in 2008, when Italian products that were included in the punitive carousel were excluded through bilateral action. So you have good examples and models to follow if you are really heard overseas and we hope so. The second issue is that of Turkey, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I ask you what you have already asked you to know before me: we have not quite understood whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has taken a measure to suspend the export of arms to Turkey and to what date. I ask you, in particular, if the last generation cannon that is coming out of a deposit of Affile, of which I read in a newspaper - I address my colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, who should have a minimum of sensitivity on these subjects: even if the government has changed, I hope that their ideas have not changed - will be handed over to the Turkish armies or will be blocked on the Italian roads. On this point the credibility of the Government is at stake, but I fear that the announcements will not be followed by actual and consequent actions. Above all, we are wondering what the Government is going to say to the European Council on Turkey, because we must make it clear that the measures that Europe is taking in relation to Northern Cyprus concern an Italian company that has been threatened in its interests by Sultan Erdoğan, because those wells to drill have been given in concession to the ENI. I would add that the measures that the European Union should take must be much more significant in relation to what is tragic and dramatic is happening, moreover already announced for some time, in the Syrian territory, where there is a genocide and ethnic cleansing on the part of a Government that in practice a totalitarian policy of Islamization of the country and outside an imperial policy of increasing Islamization, with significant threats in the Balkans, in the heart of Europe and in every territory bordering Turkey and not only; in fact, it is not by chance that the Turkish Government is squeezing and arming the factions even in Libya. Well, in this context of the growing Islamization of the country and of imperial threat to the neighbours and, directly, to Italy (because the threatened areas, from Cyprus at the economic level in Libya, the Balkans and even in the great Middle East, are of priority strategic interest to Italy, which was - I remind myself - the main trading partner of Syria, today unscathed), I wonder what the Government is doing. We therefore urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take immediate action to ensure that Europe first achieves selective sanctions against Erdoğan and his clique of power, beginning with his family, which is directly involved in Islamisation and support for ISIS. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is also demonstrated by 58,000 emails from Wikileaks who demonstrate that Erdoğan's son is in support of the illegal oil market of ISIS in combo with the caliphate. Is it possible that the 5 Star Movement is outside this House when we discuss these matters? We therefore call for selective sanctions against Erdoğan, his family, the group of generals and ministers involved, with the blockade of their assets in Italy and abroad. We also call for the European Union to suspend all forms of aid by cancelling and not merely suspending negotiations with Turkey, because if negotiations are cancelled, as Austria, for example, calls for, at the same time, the resources which are still being allocated to Turkey by means of that accession negotiations and which serve the Turkish Government to maintain Erdoğan's dictatorship and to destroy, with the invasion, the Kurdish people, because we are supplying it not only with weapons but also with money. We also call for the suspension of the aid on the issue of immigration, because we cannot accept this threat of using the poor Syrian refugees as demographic bombs by throwing them against the European border and perhaps using this to make the ISIS militias pass as well as on highways of terror to strike in the heart of Europe. We all know that Turkey is behind ISIS and we are asking for urgent measures to stop this and save the Kurdish people. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u56	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u57	Mr President, there is no doubt - as we pointed out last week - that this Government, compared with the previous one, has made a great leap in the awareness of the climate crisis. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, just read the government programme, which points 7, 8 and 9, but also point 20, where we talk about cities, emphasizes this awareness and defines for the first time in an organic way policies that go in this direction. It is equally clear, however, that policies in general and in particular those against climate change, if left to individual national states, are and will be completely ineffective, because it is very clear that individual countries, even if they may be aggressive against climate change, will be able to produce a marginal and certainly ineffective utility in the objective of structurally changing the condition of our planet, present and future. It is therefore very positive, President, that in Europe they have won those forces that want a strong European Union, and not the nationalists who, with their action, even on the climate, would have produced an environmental disaster on a global scale, with negative repercussions also in our country. Very well, then, President Conte, that the future President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has set our continent, our Union and united Europe the goal of being the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. The objectives that have been defined are very concrete, because we are talking about an investment of 1,000 billion from 2021 to 2027. We are talking about a carbon border tax to counter the relocation of emissions; we are talking about a decarbonisation strategy for energy-intensive sectors; we are talking about support for the circular economy; about the creation of funds and, in particular, a just transition fund to support the weaker territories and sectors. It is quite clear that the energy transition and all related policies must hold together the three cornerstones of environmental, economic and social sustainability. There is talk of sustainability, especially for workers, the most exposed people and the most fragile territories. The objective of sustainability, moreover, is not only defined at a general level by the Commission, but also declined, in point 1, for each Member of the Commission. Then there is the objective of devoting 25% of the Commission's investment over the next five years to environmental policies. Finally, but not least, there is the definition of a great climate pact that brings together, at a subsidiary level, the whole network of vertical and horizontal subsidiarity (i.e. with all bodies, including national bodies, including municipalities, metropolitan cities and regions, but also professional associations, individual citizens and businesses); a great pact that sees coordinated and unified policies in this direction. It's an intervention known as Green New Deal. It is now becoming a refrain, a strong phrase that must be filled with content. I remember when the New Deal expression was born: we all know that the term was coined about a hundred years ago when Franklin Roosevelt decided to get out of the Great Depression. A great depression that had led to a stratospheric financial economic crisis and therefore the need to intervene radically with radical economic and social reforms. Well, we are in exactly the same condition today, about a century later, with regard to climate change. I first heard a Senator from the League say, moving from the subject of climate change to another topic, "let's move on to urgent and real things," as if the issue of climate change were not urgent. Then I would like to invite the senator to take a tour with myself, being from Venice, to the Dolomites to verify the damage caused by the storm Vaia only twelve months ago: whole woods and destroyed forests, a storm never occurred in the history of those mountains, with peaks of 217 km per hour. Clearly, these are phenomena caused by climate change. On the other hand, thank God, we also have a President of the Republic who, on September 23, 2019, signed with all the Heads of State and Government a specific commitment, an initiative for greater climate ambition, in which it is stated at the first point that climate change is the key challenge of our time. Mr President, I shall end by saying that all the objectives that have been included in the 2019-2024 strategic agenda are fundamental, but I would like to stress, on behalf of the PD Group, that, by saying that climate change is one of these four objectives, it will find our full approval and support, particularly when these four general issues include a green, fair and social Europe with zero impact. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u59	Mr President, I have asked to speak to say something specific about the Turkish attack on the north-western territory of Syria, particularly in the Kurdish area. This intervention is putting in further danger the Christian minorities in the area, already seriously affected in recent years because of the war in Syria; in this case there is a further increase in their situation because of this intervention. There is also a danger of arrival in Europe from that area of foreign fighters fleeing from prisons; we learn that due to the arrival of the Turks and militias that flank them several prisons have been opened, so fighters who often come from Europe come out and there is the risk that, at this point, they will return to Europe to continue their battle of fanaticism and extremism. There is, therefore, also a specific interest on our part in this unfortunate affair. Furthermore, there is the need for solidarity with the Kurds, who in recent years have fought against the Islamist extremism of Daesh, of ISIS, losing many men and women fighters and we cannot think of leaving them to their destiny without concrete actions. Unfortunately, I have heard from you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, some words of concern - yes - about the situation in which the people of those areas are located, but you have specified that they must be actions without any military character. Well, we believe that the proposal for an international intervention force in that area is the only one that can have some effect today, because the arms embargo (assuming that it is also done, because we see that we do not have great prospects for this either) at this moment is completely ineffective, waiting for Turkey to be widely supplied with weapons, and also economic sanctions, although they must be, are not effective immediately. Instead, immediately there are hundreds of people who are killed, so we ask for a proposal from Italy for a force of intervention similar to that that not far from those areas had a good success. I am referring to that United Nations Force of Interposition in Lebanon (UNIFIL), in which Italy played a great role, with excellent commanders, and which gave extraordinary results at the southern border of Lebanon. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u60	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, wake up at dawn, sow, work and cure the earth: this is the art of waiting. Otherwise, our land will never bear good fruit. We ask you, President Conte, to go to Europe with your head high and defend the food sovereignty of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Ours is a quality agriculture and it will be forever. It is wrong to think that our competitiveness can and should be based on quantity. They are in fact our excellences that make us unique in the world. This is demonstrated by the fact that our products are the most counterfeit ones and that only the names used to market them evoke the history, tradition and culture of our country. Agriculture is a strategic sector which has seen, in contrast to a widespread and widespread crisis, important economic growth over the past year. Our food and drink are our pride, our health, the wealth and the work of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am a young country senator, as I like to call myself, and so many of my colleagues. I come from a small village, from San Bassano in the province of Cremona, in the beautiful Po Valley, a small province that lives in agriculture, where those who work hard in the fields and stables we call them and I call them with great respect farmers and, with friendship, farmers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We do not call them like some of your colleagues - although colleagues are a demanding word since you have never taken votes, you have never been nominated and you have never been elected by anyone - who call our farmers (and I heard them with my ears in the Commission) "the cows' ones." It takes respect, gentlemen, it takes respect and gratitude for those who still work in this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You see, President, there are no A-class workers and B-class workers. In honest work lies only dignity, dignity, and we must Remember that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You see, I live in a province where American duties on grain or Parmesan cheese would bring down all the dairy farms and farms. I live in that small province where if they ask me to defend a piece of grain I would also be able to go in front of the Father, because behind that simple piece of cheese there is all the sweat and sacrifice of people, families and a territory that does not know Saturdays and Sundays, that does not know Easter, Christmas and August. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Behind that simple piece of cheese is the sacrifice of those who work. It has hurt me to see her disown with arrogance, supposition and superficiality our territory, our work and our peasant culture of which I, unlike her, am not ashamed and I will never be ashamed. I'm proud of our peasant culture. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The arrogance with which you dismissed an investigative journalist who wanted to denounce the risks to our agriculture with the introduction of duties is unacceptable. You see, President Count, it's not enough to take the clutch to two or more points and talk about constitutional education. Style is something else. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And let me also say that that elegant clutch on her is nothing more than a faded trash. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ABATE (M5S). How dare you! BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Italian agri-food is worth 215 billion, almost 13% of GDP. Italian agri-food exports are worth 42 billion, so if you are defending our productions you are not defending nothing, you must defend them. It's your duty to do that. You must defend millions of companies and jobs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Like you did with hemp! BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Like you did with the TAV! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on, please. Senator Airola, let him finish. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Montevecchi]] The duties that will be applied from October 18 from the USA will be rotating, i.e. they will hit many products symbol of our Made in Italy and will weigh on our export for a billion euros per year as they have been set. I should like to remind you that we have an agri-food industry in the European Union, and you know very well what its direct impact on imports is, not to mention the Mercosur with which the European Union sold out the symbol products in exchange for French and German productions. Does the word automotive mean anything to you? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Collina]] Allow me to conclude by saying that your clumsy reaction to those who delivered our product to you did not surprise me, indeed, his visibly irritated face I expected, because she, in the end, is like that product, which, on the other side of the world, penalizes us: you are false with the Italians, President Conte, like Parmesan. Like this Parmesan! (Senator Campari shows a box of fake Parmesan cheese.) You're a fake. You're a fake! [[The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group display signs bearing the inscription "FALSO".]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. False! False! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m. and resumed at 12.37 p.m.) She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u62	Mr. President [[Brusio]] I don't like Parmesan either, but I'm here, thank you. The European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 will discuss key issues for the stability and future of the Union [[Brusio]] Colleagues, would you kindly let me continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I ask you to be quiet. Go ahead, Senator Testor. Thank you, Mr President. As a member of the 14th The Commission starts by saying that the media and, more generally, national public opinion should pay more attention to these meetings because, in fact, it is on these occasions that the most important decisions are taken and a large part of our future is decided. Coming to the items on the Council agenda, a prominent part of it will be covered by discussions on the resources to be allocated to the various Community policies, with a view to the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. This is a debate which, as is well known, is encountering many difficulties and the usual cross-references between Member States. The lack of agreement is likely to delay decisions to 2020, endangering the proper start of financial programming. The hope is that the Government will be able to protect the national interest, not only in words, as unfortunately happened with the Malta Agreement, which left Italy alone. We must put the protection of national interests at the heart of our debate and, above all, of our actions. Europe, Mr President, is perceived by Italian citizens as very distant and I would not want Italy itself to be perceived as distant, because we are talking about the people, our companies and all those who have to live on our territory and who must be protected at 360 degrees. National interest means certain funds for agricultural policies, which have already been mentioned by colleagues of the League, for the less developed areas of our country and for our businesses. To do this it is essential to build a network of alliances, especially with countries with a socio-economic fabric similar to ours. Two issues of dramatic topicality will then be the subject of the debate: Brexit and the Syrian question. The Government of the United Kingdom, in the recent address given by Queen Elizabeth II to Parliament, reiterated the absolute priority of completing the process of exit from the Union on 31 October. It is learned from the newspapers that the negotiations are taking a favourable turn, through a solution that would lead Northern Ireland to be practically separate from the rest of the United Kingdom; a truly worrying solution, given the never-suffering tensions in the area that, combined with the new independent winds of the very European Scotland, give the price figure in socio-political terms to be paid for sudden choices such as that of Brexit. A choice that will affect the policies of the whole of Europe, since the United Kingdom contributes about 10% of the Community budget. It is clear that if this 10% is missing from the budget and the multiannual financial framework, either the other 27 Member States will allocate additional resources or we will have to assess what policies to put in place at these times when, above all, the Syrian situation can change Europe's prerogatives and priorities. The exclusion of the United Kingdom from the single market with Brexit will certainly depress trade with the country, to the detriment of our companies. The Syrian question, with Europe's inability to respond decisively and unequivocally, is yet another demonstration of the political fragility of the institution, of the absolute need to do much more than just a moratorium on the future transfer of arms to Ankara. The Kurdish people fought and died to counter Daesh and also save the West from the advance of ISIS. His women have been raped and killed, like Hevrin Khalaf, a young Kurdish civil rights activist, who has always been committed by women for their autonomy and freedom and for the emancipation and support of the weakest, brutally killed, is suspected precisely by militiamen linked to Turkey. That is why it is not enough to declare ourselves against this war. We call for Italy to press for a firm, strong and timely position of the European Union vis-à-vis Turkey. We must think of sanctions and, if necessary and appropriate, we must put other initiatives in place. Of course, we also agree that we must take action, even if we know that the sports organization has its independence, in order to ask the Italian bodies representing Italy within UEFA to move, in any case and whatever may happen in the coming months, the seat of the Champions League final, which is currently scheduled in Istanbul. It is clear that it is not acceptable for a festival of sport to be celebrated in a country that is unfortunately giving signals of contempt for international rights and conventions these days. That's why we can't turn on the other side. Mr President, make Italy's anger and dissension feel strongly, all against this real shame. I would like to say a few words on the question of opening accession negotiations with Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which will also be discussed. I hope that Italy will become the protagonist of this negotiation, given the particular link between our country and Albania, two peoples divided only by a small segment of the sea, but with common values. I should like to end by expressing my best wishes for good work to Christine Lagarde, who should be officially appointed President of the European Central Bank at the Council. It will happen to our Mario Draghi, to whom we owe a great gratitude for what he has done for Italy and for having saved the single currency. We hope that he will live up to his predecessors and that he will continue his policy of paying attention to and safeguarding the stability of the Union. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u63	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are grateful to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for giving us a detailed account of the issues that the European Council will address in the next two days. Issues of great importance, including the EU budget, the strategic lines of the coming years and the difficult management of Brexit. We also know that in that place the voice of our country will be strong, because it will be represented by his person. I am also convinced, for all the times that I have listened to your speeches, that you will pay great attention to the issue of environmental protection, an area to which the whole Government has shown solicitude, putting at the center of its agenda the issues related to the protection of the ecosystem in all its forms. Our young people in the square are clamoring for a fair, green Italy that aims at a social and ecological economic model, a zero climate impact. This European Council falls at a very particular time. It is located immediately after the UN climate action summit in New York and before the climate conference, COP25, scheduled in Santiago, Chile in December. The European Union's action on this sensitive issue has been continued and decided, starting with the initiatives launched in recent years, which took place in 2013 with the adoption of the European Climate Change Strategy and the subsequent adaptation strategy to climate change. Initiatives that demonstrate how to prevent environmental damage due, precisely, to the change of climate change is fundamental for the entire Continent. With this in mind, Europe has committed itself to drastically reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, while encouraging other nations and regions to do the same. The priority shared by all is to keep global warming below two degrees above the average temperature of the pre-industrial era, in order to avoid the most harmful effects of climate change: floods, droughts, intense rains, heat waves accompanied by forest fires, scarcity of resources, disappearance of glaciers, rising sea level. Europe, like Italy, needs inclusiveness and sustainability: therefore, a green transition, with an eye to social. And you have to make sure you don't leave anyone behind. So let us welcome international discussions, comparisons and insights on these issues, with the hope that our country can be a model of reference for the latest actions on the subject. I am convinced that we can be, President Conte, because the care of our common home is in the government program and is in the 5 Star Movimento program. It warmed my heart, President Conte, when I heard her speak in Bari on the occasion of the inauguration of the Fair of the Levant, because she spoke, precisely, of care of the common house. So, Mr President, a great commitment has been made, but it will be supported. It will be supported by the Environment Commission of this Senate, by the Movimento 5 Stars and, surely, by the entire majority of this Government. Welcome, then, to a Green new deal, the new political direction, indicated by Europe, inaugurated by this Government, but it is necessary that it be accompanied by a radical change of cultural paradigm, by a systemic vision. We must abandon anthropocentrism for biocentrism, because we are all part of the network of life. Not isolated systems or particles, but a single life stream. We are the Gaia system. With the climate-saving decree, which has just been published in the Official Journal, this government has put in place the first maneuver to combat climate change. A first step, but these are concrete actions to reduce CO2 emissions and reduce waste formation. Further steps will be included in the budget law, such as the planned reduction of subsidies to environmentally harmful sources over time. With this measure, we will finally, after years, bring to the center of the country's political agenda topics such as urban reforestation, ecological transport, the transparency of environmental data, the will to stop the spiral of infringements for landfills and sewage plants. We are therefore ready for the ecological transition. We hope that this international confrontation will intensify efforts to further boost the management of the threat of climate change, in ways that take account of national situations and are socially fair; that it can promote the mobilisation of private and public investment and an effective circular economy; that it can accelerate the transition to renewable energy and enhance energy efficiency; that it can improve the environment of cities and countryside, air and water quality; that it can promote sustainable agriculture, combat biodiversity loss and preserve environmental systems, including oceans. The most pressing challenge to face in the new decade is the health of our planet. But we do not think that it can be implemented only by strengthening investment in the environmental sector. An investment plan for a sustainable Europe and a sustainable Italy is necessary, but it is insufficient, because it is up to every human being to become guardian and not master of Gaia, to preserve the natural environment, biodiversity, to fight deforestation, soil degradation and climate change, because everything is connected. In this age of the anthropocene we no longer have time, we must act now. It is necessary, therefore, an international pact, listening to all the peoples of the Earth, an educational, global pact, for a single global community. The "Laudato si' of Pope Francis, with integral ecology, can be of deep help, in order to develop a biosphere consciousness, to find the virtues that have been lost. In fact, this is a crisis of virtue and there is a need for people of good will, because only then can we have a future. That is why, Mr President, I thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u65	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u66	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Colmurano Comprehensive Institute, in the province of Macerata, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u67	I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh, De Petris and Unterberger, No 2, Senator Romeo and other Senators, No 3, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 4, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Bernini and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government endorses the motion for a majority resolution, No 1, which was first signed by Senator Perilli. The Government opposes the remaining motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u72	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in expressing appreciation and consensus on the communications you have made today, for the sake of completeness and clarity, I will only address a few urgent issues, if not, in some respects, dramatic. There is an invisible thread linking tensions at the heart of the international agenda, a thread that shows how the first victims of the performing muscle policy are always minorities. On Brexit, the Irish knot runs the risk of coming to the throats of a people who, thanks to the European Union, had managed to launch a policy of peace and closure of one of the most dramatic pages of the twentieth century. On the border between Syria and Turkey there is another people, the Kurdish people, who today are victims not only of Erdoğan's military force, but also of the hypocrisy of the international community, which is currently unable to defend its right to exist. I remember what Romano Prodi, then President of the Commission, said when he said that Europe is a Europe of minorities. The state of health of the world is measured by the condition of minorities and today is not a good state of health, as, unfortunately, even in these hours we have seen for what happened in Catalonia. The Kurds fought with courage, often in total loneliness, that ISIS which for the West constituted the most serious threat after the fall of the Berlin Wall. And they did it in a handkerchief - their own - where they tried to build a society that embraced the values of tolerance and respect for women. A unique case in a part of the world where the condition of women is of subalternity to man, and where, even in a country like Turkey, which with Kemal Atatürk has built his own secular tradition, the idea of a society built around precepts of religious fundamentalism is increasingly affirmed. In the face of all this Europe finds no better than proposing a stop sign for the sale of future weapons, but without putting hand to the contracts in place. Nor does Europe have the courage to challenge Erdoğan symbolically. Playing in Istanbul the Champions League final, making Erdoğan's regime the showcase of Europe on the world for one evening, would be an unacceptable fact: it would mean that peace is not an unnegotiable value for Europe. The words of condemnation that the Italian Government has expressed since the first moment have been very clear. What Mr Di Maio said to the House yesterday, but the subject here is another one: this can be a blow to Europe's credibility. On the Brexit, while it is true that Europe has little responsibility, on the other hand it must look for a positive solution for Ireland until the last minute: putting that border back would mean turning back the hands of history. It is an image that for us, the Group representing minorities, causes torment. We know what the borders meant, and we know, above all, that the greatest merit of the European Union is that it has healed the great wounds of the twentieth century. Therefore, Europe is playing its part; a Europe that needs a leading and no longer antagonistic Italy and, let me say, not an Italy that has been above all absent, as in recent months. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are pleased with the change of pace that this Government has made in its relationship with Europe. Only in this way can Italian reasons be best represented, starting with those related to the budget law, in order to arrive at that of migrants. The latter, as we have said several times, will be the big issue of the coming years, which only resolves with the maximum involvement of the European countries and with an overall governance of the phenomenon. We do not need the propaganda of those who leave women, men, children, desperate at sea: we need agreements, such as that of Malta, which, as we hope, will be able to see further progress from this summit. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Stay calm: the historical responsibilities that gravitate on your shoulders are unfortunately very heavy, and history will realize it. Then there is, of course, the whole part linked to return to the countries of origin, on which the Government is doing well to focus its attention; but there is also the need to put in the field policies for integration, for those migrants who have the requirements in order to stay in our country. Maximum attention and commitment, therefore, as I hope and imagine your government will be able to do in the months to come. In conclusion, Mr President, in announcing our Group's vote in favour of Resolution No 1, proposed by the majority, I wish the new Commission and our Commissioner, Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, who will have a very delicate task: to build a policy that makes Europe closer to the citizens and makes it appear less distant from the concrete problems of people and peoples. With the May elections there was no such breakout of Eurosceptics and populists announced from several quarters. But this fact, which is certainly very positive, must not be deceived: Europe must change and Italy must help it change. Good work, Mr President-in-Office. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u75	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have appreciated the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council in this House and, above all, the fact that we are preparing to take part in this important European Council, which marks the beginning of a new phase. As far as we are concerned, this is precisely the fundamental task of our country and we have all welcomed it: there has been an immediate change of pace in the relationship with Europe, but today on our shoulders I believe that there are many important tasks to be carried out, which you have indicated well. We really think that this change of pace also in the relationship of our country and the new Government with Europe can mean the will to make us the battle so that Europe can change, because it has to change: it is absolutely necessary and indispensable that it can change. How does it have to change? First of all - and we have also done well to point this out in the motion for a majority resolution - under the banner of a new social pact for Europe, which can combine the major issues and major environmental emergencies (i.e. the fight against climate change), and a renewed relationship and pact with the weakest and most exposed citizens. It was in some ways the opposite in Europe in recent years, where the price of austerity policies has unfortunately been paid by the weakest. There are two issues on which we need to focus. We must not just talk about green new deal, otherwise it becomes an empty slogan; concrete policies must be put in place. I must tell you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was not very appropriate for the EIB's decision of the other day to postpone the decision on the end of fossil fuel financing. We must turn the EIB into a climate bank that must support the projects that we need. For us, it is essential - and on this there is the commitment you have repeatedly reiterated - that green investment be excluded from the Stability Pact and focus on this. Changing the development model means building a new social pact for Europe. On Turkey, we must put all our capacities in place to ensure that Europe can speak with a single voice in order to sanction and make sure that the fire stops immediately. As far as we are concerned, we ask you once again: we must immediately suspend not only future arms sales but also stop the immediate sales. For all these reasons, we announce that the Senators of LEU voted in favour of the motion for a majority resolution No 1. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u78	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I was excited to see my colleagues in the League with the cartels, because they reminded me of the good old days, but, you see, Mr President, we are happy to have them in opposition, because if you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can take part in the strong European Council that there is a great difference between this Government and the one that previously supported it - and you have presided over it - it is because this Government has genuine European political forces on its side, while the former was supported by a political force that Europe wanted to disassemble it. The greatest discontinuity is this and we want to see all the differences in this European Council. We want European political unity, as well as economic unity, all the more so when our friends and allies of the United States of America and also of Russia are led by men who wink at the sovereigns of our home. The sovereigns are all friends with each other. We have also heard in the speeches of colleagues of the League about the dispute of the duties of the United States of America that however everyone is sovereign in his home, as demonstrated precisely by Trump; then our country for those duties risks losing a billion euros. With the war against our Parmigiano Reggiano and many other quality products made in Italy, we risk to be hit. Let us make it clear to the next European Council that protectionism, duties, borders and walls are a real plague. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] You can clearly say that with this majority in this Parliament because they deny all freedom and block development. European disintegration is also wanted by the European sovereignists; it is the fortune of the other world powers and it is our misfortune. We also have a profoundly different view of the climate, the environment and the idea of a Europe that deals not only with monetary policies but also with labour and tax evasion, which largely coincides with that of the socialist, popular and liberal forces in Europe. I would like to ask my colleagues in Forza Italia what they have to do - who are with the League of Salvini in Europe - in that square which will meet on 19 October and host them only to make a little crowd, but not for political sharing. Even if the current President of the Council is the same as in the past Government, what matters is that the resolution that we will vote positively today would never have been voted by the old majority with inside the League, which is a sovereignist force in this country. The plant is pro-European and takes care without fear of the future of the new generations. This government at European tables, where we discuss immigration, agriculture, business and work, participates; it does not desert, except then point the finger at it. You participate and influence the outcome. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] This is also a great difference between the past Government and the present one. On the other hand, Salvini has always been the same absentee as a Member of the European Parliament, as a Minister and as a Senator. There's no surprise that he was never at those tables. Europe must, however, be given back dignity, soul and humanity. The dead drowned in the sea that touch our land inside the coffins and the corpses of women and men escaped from their countries in search of peace dirty our consciences. The Malta agreement is a step forward, but it is not a big grip on the bottoms. We trust that country and Minister Lamorgese, but too many times we have already been mocked on the revision of the Dublin Treaty and on the common management of migration. Orbán cannot steal our resources, those in the pockets of Italians who pay taxes, together with those of all European citizens, to redo the streets, schools, create work in his country and then give a damn about the management of migrants. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr President, let's say it loudly (and you can say it at this European Council), let's face it: we risked "orbanisation" in our country and today we can say that the danger has escaped. You can go to the European Council without allies waiting for it or causing a fight to applaud it. Use this strength that is given to you by your majority in Italy. Our country must be respected, but we do not believe that Europe is a bus to get on or off depending on the conveniences. The weakness and disintegration that we are showing on our Kurdish brothers, used to counter terrorists and now left to their fate, is the emblem of the weakness of this Europe. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We are ashamed of a Europe like this, which cannot decide "a pipe." They're killing them and we're standing still. President Conte, we are satisfied with your statements - no more weapons to Turkey - but that is not enough. All the actions that can be carried out must be carried out and must see Italy as the leader. We must immediately move from words to deeds. Erdoğan is doing things, killing the Kurds without distinction: women and children, civilians and military. While he slaughters them, Europe chats. Chatty and volious Europe is the greatest gift to the sovereignists. Don't have a chat tomorrow. We expect fast and firm decisions from the European Council: no more weapons, embargo and force of intervention in Syria immediately. If there is no Europe in these cases, what is the point? [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u81	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr. Conte, the time is short and so I will be telegraphic (the form will be affected a little and I apologise). Let us start, first of all, from what is not there. At the summit in Malta, the whole government announced the famous change in immigration. Any of you can read the exciting press statements: everything has been changed, since tomorrow we have the port rotation and the automatic distribution of migrants, etc. None of this: the statements of the Italian Government were denied a few hours later by all the European partners and the European Union, so much so that on the agenda of the forthcoming European Council there is no famous turning point in Malta. This is also understandable. The recipe that you, Mr Conte, have repeatedly proposed is the same as the PD, Renzi and the left, that is - trivially - to ask the European Union to open up the Italian borders and distribute millions of illegal immigrants in Europe. Europe responds: "No, thank you." There are two visions in Europe. The countries of Eastern Europe, the patriots of Visegrád and the Brothers of Italy say that in Europe you do not enter illegally; if there is to be built walls you build; if there is to dig trenches, you dig; if there is to do the naval blockade you do, but you do not enter illegally. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then there is the vision of the immigration of your allies Merkel and Macron, according to which immigrants enter our country illegally and Italy is transformed into the refugee camp of Europe, because then illegal immigrants arrived in Italy cannot then go to the rest of Europe. Then we have no doubt: we are with the patriots of Visegrád. Let me turn to the second important question concerning the so-called return decree. Premier Conte, please, the return decree announced by Di Maio and Bonafede has nothing to do with returns. At the press conference and in this House, lies cannot be said. The decree in question identifies 13 States considered safe and provides that the request for international protection made by those who come from one of them is automatically rejected as there is no right. That's all. First observation: 13 out of 200 states in the world is a mockery. Of these 13 states, half are European states, but among them is Ukraine, which is at war, as you will know (in the last four years 14,000 dead and 28,000 mutilated), but it is included among the safe states. On the contrary, they are not included among the safe countries in which there is no war and from which the fake refugees come: Nigeria, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Egypt. What is the solution to all this? That the government will dedicate resources to repatriating Ukrainian caregivers and the Nigerian Mafia will be held. It doesn't make much sense, it'll agree with me. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Above all, unfortunately, it is not possible to improvise Minister for Foreign Affairs, because, with all the paternal affection for a boy trying to make himself look good at Farnesina, the issues are a little more complex. Count, please listen to me because this is an important matter. We have written in a government decree that Ukraine is a safe country, but you will realize that we cannot make this statement and at the same time maintain the sanctions against Russia for the invasion of Ukraine, you will realize it: a tomorrow on international tables you risk Russia or any other country bringing to the UN or in any international context the decree of a NATO member and of the European Union writing black on white that there is no war in Ukraine. You cannot, please, apologise internationally and say that unfortunately there is an intern at the Farnesina who is learning his work and who is wrong, and that Ukraine will therefore be removed from the list of safe states. We come to Turkey. I am disgusted by the hypocrisy of this House. Today we discover that there is a problem Erdoğan and we discover it today when all international sources, all sources of intelligence and press news have always certified a contiguity between Erdoğan and Islamic fundamentalists in Syria, a contiguity between Erdoğan and his family, in particular his son, and ISIS, as well as the fact that Turkey finances the cutthroat in Syria and for years has been co-responsible for the genocide of Christians and Yazidis in Syria. Yet this House, the left and the media have kept quiet for a cynical convenience: Turkey was part of the Sunni anti-Assad front and then it was forbidden to say that Turkey was financing the ISIS cutthroat, and that is why Europe and those who have been silent are complicit in the massacres that have taken place. You knew, it was newspaper news like so many others, that a genocide was taking place against Yazidi and Christians, but here all in silence, because Turkey was functional to the designs of a struggle against Assad. Now that your masters have given you permission to raise your voice against Erdoğan, since Turkey has broken the Sunni anti-Assad front, then finally you can talk about Erdoğan. It's a hypocrisy we don't tolerate. We have always denounced the process of Islamization in Turkey, the transformation of the secular Turkey into an Islamic Sultanate, the contiguity of Erdoğan with terrorists in Syria and for several years we have been asking for a word on this, while the whole of Parliament has cowardly kept silent. We have no doubt about this: let us say without any hesitation to the Islamisation of Europe and not to Turkey within the European Union, as we have always said. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] I have very few seconds left and I call on all my colleagues to link to the European Commission's website and print the image of the new European Commission. Here, also from a visual and graphic point of view, Italy's defeat in the next European dynamics and in the next European Commission is reported. We have the President of the Commission who is German, we know that the President of the ECB will be French, then there are the three executive vice-presidents, all from countries clearly of the Franco-German axis, and five further vice-presidents: basically, todos caballeros except Gentiloni Silveri, who is butler. All vice presidents, the only one that matters nothing is our Gentiloni Silveri, not only because he is not vice president, but also under the protection of an executive vice president and this is an insult to the demographic, political and economic weight of Italy in Europe. Please, President Conte, make yourself heard. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u84	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while we are debating in Rome, Sagunto burns, or should I say, while we are discussing in Brussels, Sagunto burns, because in these times, while the United States decided to de-engage militarily from the conflict in such a strategic region, while a Turkish-Russian-Syrian alliance was being wound up, even in response to the welding between the Kurdish Turks of the PKK and the Syrian Turks close to the Turkish border, Europe was showing itself naked in all its geostrategic lack. We have to say, this is being said by a non-repentant and militant pro-European. That's why it's okay for me and us in the PD Group to block the sale of weapons, those that have to be sold, but also those that have been sold. It is good for us to reject Erdoğan's blackmail of refugees with indignation and also to tear the veil of hypocrisy on all these issues. This 40-year accession process too, which is being held up because we must open chapters. Let us then open chapters, or else let us open a reflection on the subject. Everything is okay with us, but the real point in relation to this world that is teeming with such critical issues, with subjects that resemble vampires, with an increasingly voracious China and with a still unresolved Brexit, is to decide once and for all that the European Union has its own common foreign defence and security policy, otherwise we will always stay here and we will find ourselves talking about the lack of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there is a High Commissioner as good as Mogherini, it will still be completely devoid of powers, because in the end foreign policy will continue to do so by the Foreign Ministers of the individual European States. That is why the next Council seems to me to be a turning point, not because these things need to be decided tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but because that must be the direction. On other issues, too, the Council can be a turning point, the first of which is that the awareness that it seems to be seen in the actions of the new President of the European Commission, that we must respond to social issues, social and fiscal injustice, to the issue of European cohesion, as well as to the issue of the democratic nature of the European institutions, is settled and implemented. There is also the fight against corruption and environmental sustainability. The signals given by Von der Leyen, which seem very positive to us, must become a policy of the European Union. That is why the next European Council is important and for us this means, as a first point, the provision of new own resources (take up the work done by Mr Monti's Group on own resources, which is very important and indicative). The second point is the defence of agricultural and cohesion policies. I say this without the nice rhetoric of my colleague Simone Bossi, but not with less firmness, because we too want to defend the agricultural and cohesion policy, which serves our country and Europe, and the Senate must adopt a resolution - and I hope we will work in a unified manner with the Government - on the new financial perspectives 2020-2027. The third point concerns the fight against illegal trafficking in human beings, the reception and respect of human rights; the fourth is social compact, with great attention to a new plan to support work and inclusion; the fifth is a single voice on security, defence and foreign policy. The other issue for which this European Council can be a turning point is the economy. As socialists we have also waged a long battle in Europe over the exchange rate and the modification of the Stability Pact; much more realistically I believe that we can agree that the turning point may not be so much a modification of the Stability Pact, which, although I would like to see it, is not a realistic, achievable objective, just as the idea of decomposing investment in infrastructure and environmental sustainability from the calculation of the deficit and debt. I think of this new green deal, this new golden green rule; let's call it what we want, but it's about taking away from that calculation some expenses that every government does. This epochal reform would free governments - even its President, Count - from the loops of budget laws, which are so tight that you have to spend the night to solve problems, having to keep yourself within the "dictatorship" of some limits. If this were to happen, governments could finance major infrastructure, energy transition, environmental sustainability and respond to the major issues of justice, good employment, growth and sustainable development. On the other hand, populism, which is not a bad plant that is born alone, is not fought by barking at it, but by doing, deciding and choosing. So take on these responsibilities. I trust very much in the decisive role of the Italian Government and in the work that you personally, President Conte, will do in this direction. Good luck on behalf of the PD Group! [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u87	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us wish the President-in-Office of the Council good luck with the European Council, with the hope that we will be able to bring home some important results for our country. As you know, we do not make a preliminary objection, but we do enter into the substance of the measures. Today, frankly, we have seen it a little less bold than the last times; perhaps for someone like you, who likes to call himself a champion of transparency, even just being touched by a little shadow undoubtedly puts it a bit agitated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To decompress a little, since they also make fun of the "Facto Quotidiano," the advice we give you is to watch a 1969 007 movie titled: Agent 007 - At His Majesty's Secret Service [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So you will see that tomorrow at the European Council you will certainly be able to go a little more smiling, a little quieter. One of the politically important issues is the long-term budget of the European Union. There are two issues that concern us here, the first of which is certainly the idea of saving around 5% on the common agricultural policy. This would mean that the agricultural sector, which has already suffered a fall in prices and which is also experiencing a situation of particular difficulty due to unfair competition with the eastern market, would be severely penalised. So, from this point of view, it takes a firm position, even in light of the resources that will be lacking as a result of Brexit. Another worrying element that I have heard little about today in this House but which is contained in the resolution proposed by the majority is the possibility of increasing the Union's budget with its own resources, so essentially by putting a tax on it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us therefore move towards the road to European taxation, in this case directed towards plastic waste. We know that plastic free is a nice word that we all fill our mouths with but we are careful, in countering the use of plastic, to avoid that then this criminalizes Italian companies maybe in favor of some companies in Northern Europe that uses composting and alternative mechanisms. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Also because plastic - I tell the friends of the 5 Stars - is a material that you can very well recycle and regenerate and instead of focusing on the regeneration and recycling of plastic you go to do the interests of some companies in the North and even China. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Maybe because in China you have some particular sympathy. Maybe that's why. I say this because to make Europeans and to fill us with fine words, even on the green new deal as I have already said, then you risk penalising our sector with the risk of losing jobs, so you are ready to give the income of citizenship, because this is a bit the logic and the closure of the circle of your policy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It would be more appropriate if we were to recover resources, perhaps cut some of the missions, some of the journeys made by the European Commissioners. A television show recently pointed out that Commissioner Mogherini spent EUR 76,000 on a trip to Baku in Azerbaijan and then on a trip to Armenia. Then we saw the famous Commissioner Juncker who spent 27,000 euros in Rome for two days. Wow, maybe it would be better to cut and even here the 5 Stars, always ready to do fleas on everything, perhaps it would be appropriate that sometimes they also point the index on the EU budget and on the waste that exists within the European Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You too, President-in-Office of the Council, although I have not understood if it is still 5 Stars; then maybe one day you will tell us, because we have not yet understood it, but we thought it was 5 Stars. To return to the climate, the idea of encouraging investment to renew production and plants to reduce gas emissions is noble. All very nice, all interesting, the only thing is that it takes strong investments and ask today an industrial sector that is strongly in crisis to make these investments on its own is really very difficult. Climate change must be countered with genuine incentive policies, but of course - although unfortunately this seems to be the direction taken in Europe, obviously confirmed in Italy - it does not go to favour some multinationals, perhaps already ahead from this point of view, to the detriment of many small and medium-sized enterprises that constitute the backbone of our economic fabric and that, if they were to close, we would send further into crisis. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the subject of immigration, I ask you to make good sense. I say this to you, President, who spoke of a significant stage, to Senator Alfieri who spoke of progress in Valletta and Senator Bressa who said that this is the way forward: Avoid. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, was much more sincere in this respect, shouting for help to Europe: do not leave us alone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is clear, in fact, that Malta's declaration of intent has been a bit shipwrecked (can this term be used?). Few acceding countries, France which says it will not take economic migrants and Germany itself which says that if they had to increase they would disappear: is this success? Is this the way to solve the immigration problem? We do not say that, but your Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Di Maio, says that redistribution is not the solution to the problem. So, please, from this point of view, try to make a little less fun of Italians and don't talk about Malta anymore, because you really make a fool of yourself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's just a big bluff, everyone figured it out. On the subject of Turkey, we have heard very great speeches, important and beautiful, full of indignation, in which it has been said that the war must be condemned and stopped. We also display all the banners and flags of peace possible and imaginable, but it is with the facts that we get the results. From what we have read in the newspapers, in fact there is the military embargo on Turkey, but only for future supplies and not for existing ones, and so this is already a resounding limit. Do you know what Erdoğan will do? Who knows how frightened he will be by this measure, since already for some years he has been increasing the internal production of weapons and that, at the same time, approaching Russia and other countries, he will buy them simply somewhere else; we hurt him terrible, therefore. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] But what you don't hear about, because you're afraid to do it, is the term "sanctions." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yet, when it came to sanctioning Russia for the Ukrainian affair, everyone was running in that direction, while as far as Turkey is concerned, there is a little problem and now I'll explain why. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Perhaps the problem is that in Germany there are three million Turks, one and a half million of whom he votes, perhaps even for the Merkel party? Let me tell you to Merkel, to the European Council: is that why we do not want to impose sanctions? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). So? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Or perhaps it is as you say, Mr President, and we will not be blackmailed by Erdoğan with the issue of refugees? Oh, please, Mr. President! If Europe is unable to defend its borders, let us forget it. Let us leave these declarations of intent alone, because, in order to ensure that Europe is strong and cannot be blackmailed, we must begin to understand that we need a genuine policy of protecting its borders. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I believe that Hungary or Bulgaria will say no, because they are afraid of the invasion of refugees. Indeed, you are also afraid of blocking funding, which is specifically given to prevent refugees from arriving in Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, this measure should also be taken absolutely forward, not to mention the need to stop the process of making Turkey enter Europe. Finally, after years of insulting us from all over the world, saying that we were ugly and bad to not want Turkey in Europe, today you have realized, as often happens with the proposals of the League - the problem, however, is that you understand it a few years later - that this time too we were right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the question of tariffs, I have heard that America has put them because of the sovereignists and their policies. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, forgive me, but after reading the tweet 'Giuseppi', I thought it was in different conditions: on the other hand, as soon as it arrived, they put the duties immediately; so let's say we didn't start very well. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Apart from that, it is not the sovereignists' fault: the duties have been put and authorized by the World Trade Organisation, because France and Germany have granted unlawful aid to the Airbus consortium, of which we are not even a member. They are harmed, therefore, because, although we do not have any advantage from the Airbus consortium, we also take the risk of suffering the duties on our products. The sovereignists are not responsible, therefore, but your friends, France and Germany. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is why we are paying today, to the detriment of our productions. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I conclude in a few seconds with a wish for good work: we hope that you will be able to bring home something, since you are the Premier of kindness and of the new relationship of collaboration with Europe and that we are all good (but how beautiful!), but show that you are not - as some say - the waiters of France and Germany and bring Italy back to a certain level and to a certain type of responsibility and decision. Otherwise, you will end up being the government of good, yes, but good to do nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u90	CRAXI (FI-BP). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, at this troubled moment of international life we have a duty, as a country and as a people, to place with force certain essential points on the Community agenda for the coming months and years. At the next European Council, the clouds of a war, the threats of a still uncertain Brexit and the spectre of a new economic crisis are gathering, yet another. The noise of the bombs coming from Syria is not only another threat to the peace and stability of the area, on which global conflicts are pouring out, but it again calls into question the credibility and the future of the Union itself, which behind the declarations of facade showed the emergence of opportunisms and contradictions. The same formula adopted by the Council of Foreign Ministers on the supply of arms to Turkey says a lot: Europe is committed to strengthening national positions on arms export policy to Ankara, says the document, adding the word "condemnation" without any decision or embargo of the European Union, and each State will be able to decide how and when to proceed. If we believe in the European project, we have a duty to say this out loud and to demand a force of European ban to intervene. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps this will not be the case with Craxi in Sigonella, but at least it will make our country more authoritative on the international stage. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Credibility is not bought: it is a rare and material commodity that you do not have and that neither the international partners nor the European partners repent in you, given the constant swings that you, President, have been protagonist in these months. It comes back to the next European Council as an expression of a new majority, as if nothing were, as if the President of the Council were just any diplomat or, worse, a contract employee. Under these conditions, it is natural that our voice is dim, that our positions are not considered and that our destinies are marked. What must we do, then, and what are the points to put on the table at the next European Council? With the constructive spirit that has always distinguished Forza Italia, I will try to highlight some points for the Italian agenda. For example, we cannot follow the complaints to the American ally, who we have long known to be engaged on another side, the Pacific, and in the withdrawal of his troops from the Middle East, but we have the duty - and, I add, all the interest - to take up a political initiative that will project the Union outside and get it out of that coalition of immobility that paralyzes it. It is not enough to say "just arms to Turkey" if we then pay a 6 billion lace to the same and we are subject to its blackmail just because it blocks the Balkan route, and perhaps with that same money we finance the Kurdish extermination, while nothing is allocated for the development of Africa and for the stabilisation of the area, from which it originates the so-called Mediterranean route of migrants. The government has confusedly said that it does not want to restrict itself to blocking flows, but rather to work to pinpoint the causes of these flows: very well; what better opportunity than this, to put this issue in the European Council? It is also regrettable that you have not even brought home a different relocation policy, given that the agreement on migrants signed in Malta has suffered a predictable setback in the Council of the European Union. The truth is that, with your cultural subalternity, even before politics, we once again risk irrelevance. That of migrants is only one of the many themes of the strategic agenda, which denotes a weakness of the Italian position. This position I hope will be corrected, not to say revolutionized, because from these benches we never support the foreigner, but we always hope in a "national crisis." The Council will then address the issue of Brexit and it is necessary for Italy to promote a broad reflection on the future of the European Union that does not prescind from the reasons, not only historical, that lead to the exit of the United Kingdom. We all agree that the European Union should choose a director of economic and environmental sustainability in its policies, provided that environmentalism is serious and does not become a new ideology. We are all also convinced that instruments are needed to ensure that the Union affirms its interests and values in the world, as stated in the Strategic Agenda 2019-2024, adopted at the end of the last European Council. But how do we do that? There is something that has not worked, and is structural, from economic matter to every other field; it creates imbalances and mistrust between states. Italy must force the issue of the rethinking of the rules, even before it thinks about budgetary balances. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At this stage, without a change of course, the resources for Community budgets will be increasingly small, because the gross national income of the States financing them is decreasing. We must therefore fight to change the attitude of some states, which inevitably also affect the action of each Commission on the budgetary policies of the States and of the Union itself. Gentlemen of the Government, do not go and place good decimals for a few tips in the maneuver or for some snacks with unchanged VAT balance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Romeo]] We need to be promoters of a paradigm shift. In the European Union's own budget, the issue of integrated investment must take shape, overcoming the logic of stewing, in order to make the Union compete with the major global players: this is something we need to address. Similarly, we cannot fail to mention the issue that the European budget also covers a part of expenditure on social protection and defence in the future. The latter is a non-demandable subject, first political and then budgetary, and a vital issue, which also implies a reflection on the role and destinies of NATO. For example, the United States is asking European partners, and they have also specifically asked Italy, for more defence resources: what do we answer? Similarly, and with equal force, Italy must address the issue of monetary policy and the role of the ECB. The Council is called upon to adopt the formal decision on the appointment of Christine Lagarde as President, in a general context that does not suggest anything good. A memorandum recently signed by six former central bankers attacked the expansionary monetary policy pursued by the ECB: we cannot ignore it, the Draghi phase is coming to an end; the European Union must play its part and Italy must urge it to do so. If the deflation trap has been partially avoided, the expansionary monetary policy must continue and an expansionary economic policy supported by the European Union and the States, especially those who have created inconveniences with their surplus, is needed. This is linked to another subject under discussion on the Council's agenda. In the final declaration of the extraordinary summit on 21 June last, once again the revision of the ESM, the State-Save Fund, and the Banking Union took place. These are two aspects on which you do not hear the voice of Italy, which is weak, not only because in the country you do not stimulate any serious debate and you prefer to talk about snacks, candy, taxes and handcuffs, but because you drop a blanket of silence as renunciations or unable to pose the issues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bagnai]] But there is a lot to say about the Banking Union: it must be done, of course; it is a necessity that has manifested itself in the crisis. Well, but under what conditions, with what rules and at what price? If we want a cohesive Europe and, at the same time, open to the world, in the concert of nations we must make our voice heard, make a contribution and play a role. The risk is that Europe will be shattered and we will be shattered with it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u93	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, Mr Conte, I have listened very carefully to your words this morning, and I agree with all of them. What it is preparing to take part in will be an extremely important European Council for the issues that will be under discussion, from events in Syria to climate change, the definition of the multiannual financial framework, Brexit and other issues. As I have already been able to support during the debate on the draft law of the European delegation, Europe is at a turning point, not only for the establishment of the new Commission, which - I would like to stress - will only be possible thanks to the votes of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the ironic Applause from Senator Bagnai),]] but also for the issues that it will soon have to address, starting just tomorrow. Tomorrow, negotiations will continue on the new multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, the first of a future Europe of 27, which will follow the UK's withdrawal from the Union. We welcome the Commission's decision to give priority to areas such as research, innovation and the digital agenda, young people, migration, security, external action and climate. However, we cannot accept the frightened cuts in the Union's historical policies, such as the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy: even in view of American duties on certain Italian agricultural products, the cuts in the CAP would risk bringing Italian farmers to their knees and, with them, a piece of Made in Italy, which represents our excellence and contributes to spreading a positive vision of our country around the world. Cohesion policy has contributed, albeit with alternating fortunes, to the reduction of differences between the countries of the Union. Italy, unlike others, has not always managed to make the best use of this instrument, but cutting it would be a dangerous signal: it would mean less attention to the development of the less-favoured areas of Europe, which in turn would result in the finding that there are European A- and B-series citizens; instead, it would be appropriate to adjust them, both in terms of the division criteria and in the obligations to be met in order to benefit from them. The distribution of funds on the basis of per capita gross domestic product alone cannot produce a correct picture of the situation in the various regions of Europe; it would be appropriate to take account of other equally important factors, such as the unemployment rate or the presence or absence of firms with a high rate of innovation in the territory. It is precisely cohesion policy that allows me to engage in another fundamental issue of our time: migration, which - as is clear to all - is a structural phenomenon, which will be at the top of the European and global agenda for the coming decades. Climate change, wars and the African population explosion fuel such a phenomenon that the time has come to emerge from the emergency and adopt a common policy that is serious, structured and subtracted from the will of individual states. Europe must finally recognise the principle that those who land in Italy land in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The agreement reached in Malta on 23 September - and I come back to this - represents only a first step towards overcoming the principle of the first port State enshrined in the Dublin Convention and this must be clear to all European partners. It is a few hours ago the news of the discovery of a sunken boat, with 12 migrants dead inside, including a mother holding her child. Italy, Europe and the entire international community can no longer remain silent in the face of these scenes: it is not acceptable that in the Mediterranean, the nostrum sea, is still dying in this way. I want to publicly thank the Coast Guard and all the forces involved in the actions to try to prevent such atrocities from taking place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, it is still not enough: politics, the one with the capital letter, that is, ours, must intervene to stop this massacre. In this sense, I believe it is right to cut cohesion policy funds to countries that refuse to welcome migrants. It is a meritocracy, therefore: those who welcome and are active must be rewarded; those who refuse must be penalized. Membership of the Union guarantees privileges, but it also imposes obligations: free riding on the skin of people fleeing hunger and war must no longer be possible. The issue of migration cannot but be linked to the Turkish aggression against the Syrian Kurds, which is causing great concern in the international community. As you said, Mr President, and Mr Di Maio, this aggression is absolutely unacceptable: we appreciate the firm condemnation of the Foreign Affairs Council, as well as the Minister's commitment to block arms exports to Turkey; however, the need to take such measures at State level confirms the European Union's cumbersomeness undermining its action, because even if there has been a firm and unanimous condemnation of Turkish action, European procedures do not allow for a blockage of exports at Community level in the short term. Although it is understandable that it is difficult to adopt measures shared between 28 States, it is essential that, at least when there is uniformity of views, as in this case, we can act quickly and without hesitation. No more hesitations: let's act. The Turkish initiative puts at serious risk the stabilisation of the Region, which can and must be achieved only with the instruments of politics and diplomacy and with respect for all peoples. The Kurds, the largest ethnic group without state representation, have more than all engaged in the fight against Daesh and are now being attacked for no precise reason for Erdoğan's expansionist aims alone. I would like to remind you that, among other things, they have about 12,000 Daesh soldiers in custody and that, if they were able to free themselves, they would pose a threat not only to the region but also to Europe. The situation is even more serious, as Turkey is still a formally candidate for accession. In this respect, I would like to mention the political criteria for accession and in particular to mention Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, the respect of which is necessary for accession itself: The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. Mr President, I do not think we need to add anything else. In view of what I have clearly read, Turkey must understand that it has little chance of entering Europe. European leaders will return to tackling climate change, another outstanding challenge of our time. Europe is committed to achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and Italy is keeping pace. It is less than a week ago the adoption of the decree-law on the climate, which has within it several measures aimed at reducing emissions into the atmosphere and therefore the fight against climate change. Added to this is the national strategic programme to combat climate change and improve air quality, which the Government is called upon to adopt in the coming weeks. This shows that the Government is playing its part, but must engage in all international forums, in particular Europeans, to ensure that similar measures are taken by each State. I would also like to point out that combating climate change is an extraordinary opportunity for economic development and growth, so it is important to invest in research and development of clean technologies to make the most of the opportunities that are opening up in this area. Finally, I would like to take a step forward on the Strategic Agenda 2019-2024, which sets out the Union's priorities for the next five years: the protection of citizens and freedom, the promotion of European interests and values in the world, economic development, the environment and another key issue for Movimento, social Europe. As we have been saying for a long time now, the development of the social dimension of Europe is essential for the survival of the Union. For the words you have just spoken and for the reasons set out above, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group's motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u94	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh, De Petris and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Assembly's work is suspended and will resume at 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u97	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I must inform you that the work of the 10th and 11th Commissions is still under way. A number of amendments have been tabled and political issues have also emerged which we are still debating in order to resolve. We therefore need a further postponement, certainly tomorrow morning. I am not able to mathematically guarantee that I will be ready in the afternoon, but I am sure that tomorrow morning will be necessary and perhaps also in the afternoon. At this moment, therefore, we are not in a position to proceed with the continuation of the investigation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u100	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Given our collaborative attitude at the Conference of the Leaders to try to speed up the work and above all our non-obstructional behavior in the Commissions gathered, sincerely at this point, if there are political nodes - as it seems you understood - unsolved, take even a week to solve your problems and, when you are ready, come and tell us. Honestly we have no intention of staying here all Thursday or Friday waiting for your comfortable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Among other things, I remember very well that, from the Democratic Party benches, you would take the floor to say "You are not ready! We're here. And the majority? You didn't find the political agreement. You're hiding behind this. Well, since you're now in the government with the 5 Stars, you're probably realizing what it's like to rule with them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Listen, then, to my suggestion to take a week's time and to come to the House on Tuesday at 4.30 p.m. and perhaps we will be ready to deal with the decree-law in question. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u103	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bye-bye! MALAN (FI-BP). Senator Airola monopolizes attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, put yourself in your place. MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we do not have the experience that President Romeo of the Government spoke of with the Movimento 5 Stars, but we agree with him in expressing the same concept: we do not see any significant and concrete hopes of being able to finish work tomorrow. Since the provision is important, I think it's also good not to do stuff at the last minute. (Exchange of apostrophes between Senator Airola and Group L-SP-PSd'Az).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u104	Senator Airola, you are admonished. Get back in your seats. Invitation to Senators Quaestors, tell me what happened. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.10 p.m. and resumed at 5.12 p.m.) I kindly ask everyone to resume their seats. Senator Malan, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u105	Mr President, I come back to saying that we support the request made by President Romeo. We do not see any real chance that the measure will be ready tomorrow. As a matter of fact, no hasty decisions must be made. We have already experienced several times, in recent months, the situation in which work was postponed, from time to time, of half a day and then of a whole day. I consider it more decent and above all more functional to the Senate's work to postpone the examination of the measure until next week or the following week. This decision will of course be taken later. In any case, to reconvene the House tomorrow morning unnecessarily, when many of us, among other things, will be engaged around Italy, it would be really not convenient for our work. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u108	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, we in the Fratelli d'Italia Group are also in agreement with the proposal of the parent company Romeo, also because we have all - and I have to say - held a cooperative attitude, as set out at the meeting of the leaders. We have examined the amendments without even knowing whether they were accepted or inadmissible. We then started to get opinions on the amendments a little bit at a time and this morning we received only those up to Article 8. I am also aware that the Budget Committee is not so far ahead with the examination of the other amendments. At this point, I think it is a matter of common sense to postpone the work of this House until next week or at least to allow all the time that is needed, so that we can, above all, work in the Commissions meeting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u111	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, taking note of what the President of the 10th Council has just told us, The Commission, perhaps - if you think so - should convene the Conference of Leaders and discuss the timing of the measure in question in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u114	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to what President Marcucci has just asked for. We are also in favour of convening a conference of group leaders to give order to our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u117	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I believe that we should restore what the Rules of Procedure of this Senate provide for, because we are talking without having someone sitting at the government desk. The government counter is empty. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. The government is here! GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Then they have to learn to sit down, because here we see a kind of behavior that everyone does what they want. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santanchè, undersecretary Castaldi is present. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Then sit in your place, sit and order at the government counter. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u118	Frankly it seems to me a useless controversy, because the members of the government were present. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments]] I don't like that there's typhoseries, in the sense that first someone applauds on one side and then someone else on the other. I'm in charge of this House. The two Undersecretaries were present. It may also be necessary for each of you to sit in place, because this also means regular management of this House. I shall immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.16 p.m. and resumed at 5.41 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u119	The Conference of the Leaders has established that the discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the protection of the job and on the resolution of the corporate crises will take place, until its conclusion, Tuesday 22 October, from 9.30 am, with sitting without closing hours. The question time, already scheduled for tomorrow, will not take place. The other topics provided for in the timetable remain confirmed. I would like to make a statement to this House, even though I do not see Senator Airola in this House. I'll check if the call I made was fair or not. Since there has been a moment of great confusion, I may not have seen well what happened. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bernini.]] In this case, however, I want to better verify the situation, because from my position it is really difficult to understand what the dynamics are. If I'm wrong, I'll say it clearly the next time I see you. I'm sorry Senator Airola isn't here.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u120	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Tuesday, October 22, 9.30 - Drawing of Law No. 1476 - Decree-Law No. 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution (expires on November 3rd)]] [[Tuesday, October 29, 16.30-20 - Doc. XXII, n. 4 - Establishment of a monocameral commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing-up office) - Motions on the establishment of an extraordinary commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence - Drawing of law n. 1493 - Decree-Law n. 104, Reordering ministries (date n. 20 November) - Trade union inspection Wednesday 30 " 9.30 Thursday 31 " 9.30]] The calendar of the week can be integrated with the communication of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Syria. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1476 (Decree-Law No 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministeri) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u123	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the competent Ministry and of the instrumental body which has competence in the field of road transport in relation to a problem which is struggling with road traffic between Abruzzo and Molise. We are faced with a street reality called Istonia which is the responsibility of the two Provinces of Chieti and Isernia, which currently lacks the ability to guarantee safe circulation. Italy is the only country in Europe that, at the level of the road code, guarantees the circulation with the specific safety code. Since this state road, which - I repeat - is called Istonia, today the competence of the two provinces already mentioned, is not in a position to guarantee a safe passage and since there is a rule that allows the verification of the legal status of the roadway and possibly the assumption of such roadway to the competence of the ANAS and therefore of the State, I have undertaken activities of inspection union; this in order to determine the verification by ANAS, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Directorate-General for the supervision of the state roadway, the conditions of assumption in the state of the legal condition of such roadway that today does not guarantee safety. Moreover, this stretch of road, which is about 90 kilometers, is currently very used by the Sevel Val di Sangro plant, located in the municipality of Atessa, for the transport of the products of FIAT Ducato to the port of Naples. It is therefore a very stressful road, which also affects the towns. For this reason, I hope that the Ministry will collect the initiative of inspection union and verify, if possible, the transformation of the legal rank. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u126	MANTERO (M5S). Mr President, I am asking you to vote on the request for urgency, pursuant to Rule 77 of our Rules of Procedure, of the Senate Act 1324, to regulate the sale of industrial hemp flowers. The request for urgency has been signed by more than 40 senators, as provided for in the Rule of our Rules of Procedure, and the request for a vote has already been made several times in the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups by our Parent Company. I am therefore asking you to vote as soon as possible, not least because it has been two and a half months since I submitted the request for urgency in July. I also wonder whether we can still talk about urgency, since we are taking two and a half months for the vote on urgency to be scheduled, partly because it is indeed an urgent matter. I am sorry, Mr President, that you are distracted, partly because I am addressing you directly and I am standing before you. I would urge you to put to the vote the urgency, in accordance with Rule 77 of our Rules of Procedure, of the Senate Act 1324, to regulate the marketing of industrial hemp blossoms. The request was signed by more than 40 senators and at the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups we asked for it to be scheduled. Although it was tabled in July and therefore two and a half months have passed, the vote on urgency has not yet been scheduled. I therefore wonder if we can talk about urgency. There are 3,000 companies that, after a judgment of the Court of Cassation that has highlighted a legal vacuum on the issue, are in fact hung by a thread and do not know whether they will have to close or not, whether they will be seized or if they can be accused of dealing, pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990 (the so-called single text on drugs). There are 3,000 companies and 10,000 workers waiting for this regulatory vacuum to be filled, so we have a duty to provide it. I repeat my request that the vote on the urgency of the Senate Act 1324 be set as a matter of urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u127	As you will know, we have already addressed this issue at the Conference of the Leaders. Having however the urgency to give precedence to the decrees-laws in expiration, it did not end up in oblivion, but was only for the moment set aside, in order precisely to give precedence to urgent questions, therefore to the decrees-laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u128	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Classical High School "Torquato Tasso" in Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u131	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on an important infrastructure for our territory, for the North-West of our country, for Piedmont and the province of Cuneo, the Granda. On 18 March 2018, seven months ago, the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte visiting the shipyard of the Asti-Cuneo motorway promised: The works will start by the summer. Today, like Cuneo and Piedmontese, we ask the President-in-Office of the Council to return to that section of the Asti-Cuneo, also because the work did not start at all and everything is as firm as it was before. We ask President Conte to apologise to the Cuneans for promising the impossible, because the people feel caught up in the background. We also involve the Minister of Infrastructure, Paola De Micheli, because her own political side protested for months and months, when we were a government force, saying that we were not taking action to accomplish that work. That work also went through the deliberations of the last CIPE, then it was again transferred to an opinion at European level. As far as we are concerned, we do not need walkways or words: we want to see the facts; we do not want to see the construction sites. We are talking about 9 kilometers of motorway that for too many decades we have been waiting for them to be built: it is since 2012 that in that section of highway there is no longer an active construction site. They are seven years of perennial waiting and slow agony of the infrastructures of the Province of Cuneo. For all these reasons and, above all, to avoid further waste of time, we ask that the Government take this dossier immediately. Although the parliamentary majority has changed, this project must be completed quickly, since it also involves an important infrastructure such as the new Alba-Bra hospital. It is not acceptable that we still lack this trade. Let Prime Minister Conte take responsibility for explaining to all of us Cuneans, to us Piedmontese, what the intentions are: if there are problems, we understand it, but we do not accept to be mocked. Sabaudi did, but fools didn't. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-156.ana.u133	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 October, at 9.30 a.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.50 p.m.
