ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, since the opinion of the Budget Committee on the amendments to Decree-Law No 32 of 18 April 2019 has not yet been received, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time; at 5 p.m. the discussion of the Decree-Law will continue, as established at yesterday's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u5	Senator Marcucci, I have actually suspended the session, but if you wish to speak on the order of business, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, thank you for your magnanimous attitude. Things are going very differently than the timetable: I was in the Budget Committee just now, where a new amendment came in and, therefore, it takes time to submerge; but in fact, the most important issue is that the President of the Budget Commission has announced that there is still no technical report on all the recent amendments by the Government and the rapporteurs, and therefore it is absolutely unlikely that the Commission will be able to complete the work by 5 p.m. Mr President, I am obliged to ask you to take seriously the possibility of convening the Conference of Leaders by the Presidency, because the organisation of the work, as defined in the previous one, seems objectively impossible to me. I therefore call, with a constructive approach, for a Conference of the Leaders to be convened in order to verify the progress made.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u7	Thank you, Senator Marcucci. Your request seems absolutely correct to me, so all I can do is report it immediately to the President, Senator Alberti Casellati.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u10	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I agree with the request: it is not possible to manage this kind of work, not least because this is not the first time it has happened, on the contrary, I would say that it would be an exception if we proceed normally, according to the decency that should characterize the work of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u11	Thank you, Senator Malan. Without prejudice to the fact that I will inform the President of the Senate of what you have just said, I inform you that the sitting for the discussion of the decree-law at our examination will resume at 5 p.m., without forgetting that at 3 p.m. the question time will be held in any case. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.08 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u12	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism Policy and the Minister for Defence will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-00865 on the provisions of the Ministry of the Interior applying the prohibition of movement with vehicles registered abroad for residents in Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, the safety decree introduced a novel in Article 93 (1-a) of the road code, which, subject to limited exceptions, provides for the prohibition of movement for vehicles registered abroad and available to persons who have established their residence in Italy for more than sixty days, resulting in heavy penalties in the event of infringements. Circular No 245 of 2019 of the Ministry of the Interior, implementing this rule, has inexplicably provided for European citizens to be able to take into account also the so-called normal residence. The definition of normal residence, introduced in our legal system by Article 118-a of the Road Code, is actually derived from European law and, in particular, from Article 12 of the 2006 European Directive No 126 on the issue of driving licences in order to facilitate their purchase. This is a special rule, so to speak, which has nothing to do with the personal residence. To date, due to the circular of the Ministry of the Interior and such use of the definition of normal residence, the competent authorities sanction foreign workers, the so-called seasonal workers - those, for example, of the hotel sector with employment contracts in Italy lasting more than sixty days - who, not being resident in Italy, should not be included in the prohibition and, therefore, not sanctioned. As a matter of fact, the ban particularly affects regions located in border areas, including the Südtirol, where the risk of penalties is more widespread and the adverse effects associated with the application of the rule in a distorted manner are more felt by citizens and workers, especially cross-border. At an informal meeting with his ministry's technicians, we had been reassured about a change in this circular, but nothing has yet been done. In addition, Minister, it must be said that the discipline currently in force appears completely inadequate, especially if it is applied to certain situations which have nothing to do with tax avoidance. I am referring to the hotel manager who parks the property's client's car or the White Cross driver who has an agreement with the road rescue insurance and who has to drive the car of the person involved in an accident. There are many examples and I have mentioned only some of the reports received from the territory. I therefore ask you, Minister, first of all, whether you intend to prepare a corrective action for Circular No 245 of 2019, excluding the inexplicable use of the definition of normal residence. In general, I would also like to ask whether it is not appropriate for ad hoc legislative action to be taken, so that all parties and groups who are currently unfairly involved and penalised will also be definitively excluded from the ban. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Member. It is clear that the amendments made to Article 93 of the Road Code last December, when the so-called safety decree was converted into law, did not want to punish the drivers of the White Cross or the waiters of the border hotels - it seems clear to me - but they had and have the objective of countering the phenomenon of the so-called foreign clothing, that is, the circulation of motor vehicles with foreign plates in the national territory, in order only to circumvent the insurance and tax obligations, and to avoid the application of the sanctions of the road code (this has happened in thousands of cases). The prohibition I have referred to is tempered by some exceptions explicitly provided for. These are therefore important provisions which, as reported by the police themselves, are already making positive results that I am sure will be consolidated over time. In any case, since no rule is born perfect and if problems come from the territory and from this House it is our duty to address them, the offices of the Ministry have already provided operational indications with circular of last January, obviously not yet sufficient to limit the contraindications which you, honourable Member, have spoken of. The problem of applying the ban not only to Community citizens but also to so-called normal residents (i.e. those residing in the national territory for at least one hundred and eighty-five days a year for professional or personal interests) may be overcome by administrative means, specifying the exclusion of Community citizens residing abroad from the scope of the prohibition of movement and the possibility for them to move abroad on national territory for a maximum period of one year. With regard to the situation of foreign seasonal workers - to which you have referred, Mr President - who could be banned because of the potentially long-term nature of their work, however, we are already considering a number of possible solutions which, as you mentioned, will have to be introduced into the legal system by means of a regulatory measure. One solution therefore requires a circular, while the other requires a regulatory measure. Finally, I can assure you that the criticalities reported and emerged in the first phase of application of the legislation are adequately addressed in order to safeguard the few, but obvious situations worthy of a specific exceptional treatment, without prejudice to the objective of hitting the thousands of conducts elusive of the legal obligations. In conclusion, Senator Unterberger, thank you and I assure you that we are absolutely at your disposal to solve the remaining problems reported, since we adopt the decrees to simplify the lives of decent people and complicate them to the sly and perverse people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Wolf and Piarulli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u15	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u16	Mr Salvini, as you will know politically, I am not of your line, but I think you are a person with great common sense to solve practical issues. Imagine that from us, in South Tyrol, is about to start the season, but we have a shortage of workers: many people have been stopped and violated who have their residence abroad and come to us to work for five, seven or eight months, because they have been kidnapped cars, many have already canceled, saying that they no longer want to come to this country. It has been a long time since we have tried to take action against the violations, to the point that the judge of peace has given us reason and suspended them; however, we cannot advise those poor people to turn to a lawyer to challenge these measures. The solution would therefore only be to remove from your circular the reference to normal residence, which legally has nothing to do with the personal residence. Minister, let us trust you and your common sense: help us to resolve this situation. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u17	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-00863 on the establishment of the Single National Commission for the Price of Wheat in Foggia for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u18	Mr President, we would like to ask our Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism what is the situation of the Single National Commission introduced into our legal system by Article 6a of Decree-Law No 51 of 5 May 2015, which introduced the principle of transparency in the mechanisms for the formation of prices at the origin of agriculture. The creation of a CUN in Foggia for the price of durum wheat has been in question for a long time, since July 2016, and is even part of the plan of former Minister Maurizio Martina for the relaunch of Italian wheat, an excellent product from which we obtain bread and pasta. The same, among other things, in a ministerial table at which I participated had the opportunity to say that from Ismea data on the development of prices for durum wheat there was no correlation between the international and national markets, thus allowing the presence in Italy of distorting prices and therefore competition. From then until today many tables have followed the Ministry, as you know, without any results. The need to establish the Commission in the capital of the Capitanatata is given by the fact that the prices of durum wheat that can be pastifiable both at wholesale and at origin continue not to be profitable for our producers, so the farmers of Daunia, Belice and the GranoSalus association in these weeks have protested for the wheat paid only 17 or 18 cents. Farmers obviously denounce the Community policies which disadvantage Sicilian, Apulian, Lucan, Molise and Abruzzo wheat, forcing them to abandon their land, since the costs are increasing in excess of their earnings. It therefore seems obvious that Foggia should be able to identify the location of this Commission on durum wheat, without delay to the trials, as has also been announced a few days ago by some members of the Government. In view of the fact that, despite the aforementioned law, the implementing decree approved in the State-Regions Conference and the resolution of the previous legislature, this commission has not been established, also because of obstacles put in place by some organizations, there have also been appeals to the TAR and the Council of State to cancel the lists of goods exchanges of Foggia. This serious delay in the implementation of the CUN on durum wheat in Foggia penalises the process of transparency and aggravates the conditions of cereals companies in Italy and the Mezzogiorno in particular, without allowing consumers to have guidelines on the toxicological quality of products. The agricultural and consumer sectors are therefore waiting, from this point of view, for a clear signal from the Minister to quickly call on the Commission and, above all, to entrust the Antitrust with an investigation that surrounds the distorting phenomena of prices and competition and to verify compliance with national and European rules in this area. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u19	Mr President, the Italian cereal system is of great importance within the entire national agricultural sector, both for the extension of the crops and for the formation of a significant part of the turnover, and for the strong identity it expresses. To this end, the Ministry is committed to supporting the wheat-pasta supply chain and to strengthening relations between processors and farmers, in order to ensure maximum protection for consumers. The intervention measures also include the operational availability of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism to launch the creation of the Single National Commission on durum wheat. This instrument, which is launched pursuant to Law No 91 of 2015, provides for an agreement between the buyer and seller party for the formation of a reference price valid at national level, which exceeds the current system of listing of freight exchanges. In order to progress in the procedures and in the face of a supply chain request, the Ministry has already held on 14 March 2018 a technical table and on 21 March 2018 sent to the participants a questionnaire to establish some fundamental characteristics of the constitution CUN on durum wheat, among which the choice of the seat. At this technical table the agricultural organizations and the representation of the industrial part of transformation were invited, precisely in order to identify jointly a useful path of formation of the CUN, and the representatives of the association GranoSalus also participated in the meeting. The Ministry received only three replies to the questionnaire, two of which containing the request to interrupt the formation of the CUN by the representatives of the future buyer party, no reply or indication on the other hand, was sent by the association GranoSalus. Convinced of the importance of the objective of having a more transparent indicative price for those who produce outside the supply chain contracts, last December, at the table of the wheat supply chain pasta, I reiterated the willingness to create a single national Commission for durum wheat as part of a series of actions for the sector and in this direction is continuing the work of technical dialogue with the parties. With regard to the transposition of a grid for toxicological evaluation of the quality of wheat, including for the protection of consumers, requested by the honourable Member, it should be borne in mind that the one placed on the market must comply by law with all the safety and health characteristics laid down in the relevant European and national legislation. As far as antitrust investigations are concerned, I would remind you that they are the responsibility of the Competition and Market Authority, which, in the case of unfair practices, provides it of its own motion. However, I repeat the Ministry's commitment, as far as its competence is concerned, to avoid speculation, fraud and price volatility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u20	I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u21	Minister, this is not exactly the case, because it is absurd that agriculture is the only sector in which the buying-in prices of raw materials are the strong counterparts, i.e. industry, processing and traders. I have deposited a bill to overcome this obstacle, because this CUN will never happen, since some trade associations of industrial part do not want a process of transparency, which even the Italian State has started, after years of hard battles. It is thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars that we have introduced, even at our request, this rule, which establishes the principle of transparency. If therefore the obstacle is the ostracism on the part of the industries, it can be removed also by accepting the proposal that I have submitted, that you can transform into an immediate decree: it is not with the questionnaires, in fact, that we will succeed in convincing the industries to share equally the added value along the supply chain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u22	Senator Biti has the right to explain the question 3-00869 on the possible revision of the CETA trade treaty with Canada in the agricultural field, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his presence. We can say that today's is the third episode of our personal serie on CETA (Comprehensive economic and trade agreement). In the Commission, I have already had the opportunity to ask you what you think of it as Minister for Food and Forestry Policy of the Italian Republic. I was able to provoke you again in this House when we talked about agriculture. This is the third episode and, since the citizens are watching us from home too, I hope that you will finally have the opportunity to explain to everyone what you intend to do about CETA as Minister of Agricultural Policy. In fact, I remember his statements a year ago, when he asked to wait to see the results of CETA, at that moment in force provisionally, and to have the data in hand to figure out whether to make revisions (which we know are possible). On the other hand, we hear ministers of your own government saying different things, taking a clear and clear stand against this free trade agreement with Canada. As I have said on several occasions and as I say now, however, the Minister is you, and it is you who chooses the policy of the agricultural and agri-food sectors. We then ask you, Minister, what you really think about this fundamental instrument of bilateral agreements with an important country such as Canada. It is a political response that we want, because it is a choice that the government must make. We want to know, then, whether or not you agree with the ratification, which has not yet taken place, even if the Treaty is in force and in operation and the data described and reported are important for the agriculture sector and especially for the agri-food sector. We would therefore like to know what your opinion is regarding ratification, with what forecasts and when or not you want to do so and also how, that is, if you think of a revision. We don't need you to list the data for us, because we can find them on our own, but we need you to tell us what this government wants to do. Although we are used to everything on double tracks, we who are particularly interested in agriculture with our colleagues in the Commission would like to finally know what the government's unique position is, which you represent as the pro-tempore minister of agricultural food, forestry and tourism policies, and know your position on CETA. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u24	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u25	Mr President, I had an answer that had been prepared for me by the relevant offices, which I thank for being a technical answer, but at the moment I am giving you a political answer, because I believe it is necessary to do so because we have been talking about the CETA for too long. As you well know, CETA is in place at the moment, so our companies can benefit completely from it without any problems; those who say otherwise know they are lying. As we have said on several occasions, the objective we have set ourselves was to assess, together with trade associations, farms and the agricultural world, the continuation of this agreement. Over the past few weeks we have started to meet some of the professional associations, so we started to see together with them how CETA is going. We know very well that there will now be a mid-term review and as a result there will also be the opportunity to talk to Canada to see what can be changed. At this moment we are seeing - personally it is true that the data are many positive - that those who can export to Canada have the possibility to make volumes and therefore business; therefore in this sense we consider it positive. We have already clarified the negative aspects on more than one occasion. I am referring to the fact that not everyone can export because this agreement is only for a limited number of Italian products. The other of the two aspects that we want to reconsider in the mid-term review because we do not consider it positive is the fact that italian soiling in Canada is still allowed. These are the two reasons why I would still give a negative opinion at the moment. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u26	Senator Taricco may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the frankness of the answer: at least now we have a fresh answer from which to start with the reasoning. I'm just allowing myself to make a point. As you well know, in recent months it has been added to the list of protected names also that of the ham of Carpegna, certifying in a plastic way that what many had said, namely that this protection concerned only a small number of designations of origin, in fact it is not supported because the agreements say different things. In my opinion, we urgently need the clarification that you referred to, because I believe that the issue is not so much about how to manage the continuation of the path on CETA, but, in the light of this speech, to understand what strategy to use at international level to protect our designations of origin. The main issue is that in this case we will have limited safeguards, and that is true, but we have to wonder what other way is there to protect designations of origin. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that the clarification to which you referred is certainly fundamental for CETA, but I also believe for all the Italian sector voted for 'export, that (just yesterday we experienced a moment of deepening on this topic) has in the designations of origin an extraordinary patrimony both in economic terms, and in terms of the impact of image on Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u29	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-00866 on the protection of the Mediterranean diet compared to the programme proposed by the international commission Eat-Lancet, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u30	Minister, let us bring to your attention and to that of the Members of this House a problem which is being posed after a little more than five months after the approval by both branches of Parliament of a motion by which we asked the Government to defend the Italian agri-food sector in the appropriate international fora, particularly within the framework of the UN and its main agencies. Thanks to his speech and that of our graduates, the UN has come back to its steps and has had to admit that our agri-food products and our excellences of Made in Italy are not as harmful to health as they said. Today we have to discuss this subject again. On 19 January, the Eat-Lancet Commission on nutrition, planet and health was presented in Oslo, which aims to transform the global system of nutrition. This commission has extraordinary economic resources, is linked to a foundation that manages over 30 billion dollars and intends to propose food styles far from our model of the Mediterranean diet, styles based only on epidemiological studies, without having at the basis any clinical foundation that certifies its effectiveness and health. This model appears to have serious shortcomings. The steps by which this committee would like to implement its plans are seriously detrimental to the freedom of choice of the consumer, to the point of providing first a guide to choices through incentives, then a guide through disincentives (which would mean taxing certain foods), then the restriction through the exclusion of some products from the market and finally the elimination of choice, on the basis that it would be the State to tell the consumer what the healthy foods are. It is natural to think that behind this umpteenth attack on Made in Italy there are many other interests and that under the cover of human health you want to hit agriculture and the agri-food chain. We therefore ask you whether and how you intend to take action again to protect the Italian food chain once again against a model that is contrary to food habits and traditions. It should also be done through targeted information campaigns, which allow consumers to assess objectively the initiative of this committee, whose propaganda unfortunately has already taken place in different media abroad and, some, also in Italy, in order to prevent consumers from carrying out food behaviours harmful to their health. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u31	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry has always worked in response to the motion adopted unanimously by both branches of Parliament. This is precisely why, in order to represent the Italian position at the last session of the Food Labelling Committee of the FAO Codex Alimentarius, which was held in Ottawa from 13 to 17 May, together with the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Health and Economic Development, we have developed a position that has modified the original position that the Commission would have presented on behalf of all the Member States, once again against the Italian agri-food industry. The Italian delegation's action was aimed at countering the possible approval of new guidelines on package-front nutrition labelling, which legitimize labelling systems based on the classification of healthy foods/unhealthy foods, color FIFG labelling systems (the famous traffic light), systems that attribute a synthetic assessment on the overall quality of food (Nutri-score) and systems based on indicators of harmfulness. With regard specifically to the Eat initiative, a non-profit startup dedicated to the transformation of the world food system, the Eat-Lancet Commission's report is now known for its healthy diets from a sustainable food system, which affirms the need to change world food habits towards more dietary diets, not only in terms of public health but also and above all in terms of combating climate change. This model pays attention to a worldwide increase in the production and consumption of foods considered healthy (fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes and dried fruit) and a drastic reduction, or total elimination, of the consumption of foods considered harmful (in particular red meat, but also white meat, dairy products, sugars and refined cereals). There are various public intervention gradations to change the global food system, including softer measures and more drastic measures, such as the adoption of incentives for certain food categories identified as healthy, and disincentives for other commodity categories, until the total elimination of consumer freedom of choice. The Commission report states that the food industry should even withdraw inappropriate products from trade and diversify its business. The above report has given rise to great concern, not only by the Italian Government, but also at the level of business within the agricultural organizations of category and agro-food producers. The main concerns focus on the inadequate scientific justification of the report and, above all, on the prescriptive nature of its conclusions and recommendations. In fact, in line with the most established scientific guidelines, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies have always considered fundamental the whole diet and not the individual food, avoiding to classify food in good and bad, because such food must be commensurate with the needs of the individual and not judged in the context of a simple standardised evaluation. Italy has promoted, promotes and will always promote the Mediterranean diet, recognized on 16 November 2010 intangible cultural heritage of humanity by UNESCO [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , a nutritional model remained constant over time, consisting mainly of olive oil, cereals, fresh or dried fruit, and vegetables, a moderate amount of fish, dairy products and meat, for its positive health effects and encourages producers to maintain the excellent quality of traditional Italian products. The conceptual position expressed in the Commission's Eat-Lancet report could have discriminatory effects especially on those Italian products recognised at European level as national heritage (PDO and PGI), which are legally obliged to maintain certain levels of nutrients, provided for by the production regulations to protect traditions and consumers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In September 2019 a further initiative by the promoters of the Eat-Lancet campaign is planned in Paris as part of a think tank to which several representatives of the European Commission were invited. There will be no shortage of action to counter these attempts to influence governments and the competent regulatory authorities in various parts of the world to impose a vision not supported by convincing scientific evidence and certainly counterproductive for the agricultural world and producers of healthy and quality food such as Italian ones. The above does not exhaust the protection of national agri-food excellences, because we intend to maintain high attention in all international fora, including FAO, in which health policies are defined with potential impact on the production and marketing of food products, with the aim of impressing incisiveness and determination on the role of Italy, safeguarding the made in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u33	Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, we believe that, with all the problems that Italian agriculture has today, we once again find ourselves having to discuss this subject and once again have to defend our Made in Italy sincerely is destructive, not only for this House, not only for consumers, but above all for our farmers and our producers, who are already fighting against continuous climate change and unfair competition, first and foremost for European countries and then for non-European countries. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you - and thank you - that the resources made available to agriculture and the agro-food sector by this Government in the last six months amount to more than EUR 1 billion. This is in order to promote Italian productions, which are of absolute quality. It is recent news that, with over 55,000 farms led by under 35, Italy is at the top at European level. The return to earth is undoubtedly favored by all this. The problems, of course, are not lacking, but the attention you will put to this issue is crucial for our productions, for the profitability of our farmers and, above all, for the final consumer. First Italian products, always. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u35	Senator Rauti has the right to explain the question 3-00867 on the theme chosen for the military parade of 2 June 2019, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, inclusion is the theme chosen this year for the traditional military parade at the Imperial Forums on 2 June. An event that in itself is inclusive, precisely because it takes place on the occasion of the Feast of the Republic, an anniversary that unites all Italians. But among the tasks of the Armed Forces we remember: the defence of the State, the security and the national sovereignty, the protection of the borders of the Homeland, the construction and the maintenance of peace in international missions, interventions in case of natural disaster, collective defense in operations in complex environments. In short, the Armed Forces are not non-governmental organizations or voluntary associations, and it is not their institutional task to combat social exclusion, nor to exchange rifles with scholarships for peace, as President Conte has asked and proposed. The parade of June 2 is, or should be, an opportunity to celebrate and honour the commitment of the military and strengthen the sense of national membership. It is precisely this specificity of the Armed Forces that should be honored and respected on the occasion of the anniversary of 2 June, always remembering, every day, that the military are servants of the State and ambassadors of Italy on missions abroad. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Having dedicated the parade on 2 June to the theme of inclusion seems to us, Minister, an ideological hypocrisy, a political alteration and also a lack of recognition of the main vocation of the Armed Forces. While we share the view that the dual use strategy could not be different, we believe that the choice ends up favouring civil engagement with a decrease in military values that are precisely what a parade of the Armed Forces should celebrate. In short, Minister, more than a parade will be a parade, more rainbow colors than the colors of the Tricolor. Happy good party, Minister. Peace and love! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Defence, Mr Trenta, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u37	. Peace and love to her, Senator! (The Minister addresses the so-called peace and love gesture [[Senator Rauti's address. Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u38	Minister, I don't understand this gesticulate. Talk to the House and talk to me. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It's from the FDI Group. A minister who makes the gestures of the Assembly! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister of Defence... [[Protests from the FdI Group.]] , Minister of Defence. I did not do the gesture of the horns, but the gesture of peace and love. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have just said that I do not understand this kind of gesture, which is not suitable for this House. I just said that. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). Tell them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u39	Mr President, the answer to the question we are debating today allows me to clarify precisely an issue of particular interest and media evidence, in the hope that this intervention will dissipate all doubts and not give space to exploitations and partisan interpretations. The Feast of the Republic is the feast of all the citizens and all the military who represent the Republic and the values of unity that it underlies. For this reason, as an essential part of the Republic, the military represents the very embodiment of the principles and constituent values of the State. The concept of inclusion is internal to defence. Inclusion means considering as an integral part of the defence team all the soldiers who risked their lives for the service and who, for example, became ill as a result of their employment in the operating theatres. These soldiers have not found formal recognition for so long and only now, at last, is there any clarity on the genesis of the pathologies related to the exposure to harmful agents, with the precise intention to minimize, or even eliminate, any risk factor for the health of the military employees. The occasion of this special occasion for the history of the Republic forced me to keep everyone in their due consideration, so that no one, in the defense, should remain behind. For this reason, during the parade we will have with us representatives of the victims of duty and of the families of those who have fallen for the good of the Homeland. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Inclusion means that, for the first time, the defence civilians will participate and for the first time the reserve selected. The diversity of choices and skills is a common patrimony and respecting the self-determination of people is necessary for a country to remain alive and competitive, even in the consideration of solidarity for those who have paid most for their commitment. These considerations and arguments allow me to say that the dedication of the parade of the Feast of the Republic to the theme of inclusion cannot constitute a sort of deminutio of military values or a lack of recognition of the main vocation of the Armed Forces. Indeed, it is a thanksgiving to all those who have given their lives and sacrificed an important part of it to serve their homeland. It is the feast of the heroes of the country, also of those who, sick for the service, have passed to the civil role. From this point of view, the theme that inspired the organization of the celebrations for June 2 seems to me completely consistent with the vocation of the armed forces and in perfect harmony with the constitutional dictation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u40	I give the floor to Senator La Russa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u43	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I have always appreciated the defence ministers of the last governments, starting with Senator Pinotti. This time, however, we are just not satisfied, because the patch that Minister Trenta tried to put in the hole seems colorful and makes it even more visible. I understand, Minister, that you were ashamed to have made it clear that this story of inclusion was an attack on those who have other visions, for example on the subject of immigration, that it was an attack on your alleged ally Salvini. Now you've tried to fix that story, but it didn't go as you say. Angelo Tofalo, his Undersecretary, of the Movimento 5 Stars (who applauded without reading the press releases), said an hour ago that he tried for a year to stand beside Minister Thirty and to explain to her that the enemy is not Salvini or who knows who else but that, unfortunately, the Minister has decided to make different evaluations. I'm not saying that. Your Undersecretary says so. And don't worry: Gianfranco Paglia and Luca Barisonzi, gold medals wounded in Afghanistan and other missions, do not need his inclusion, because they are already in the heart of the armed forces and all Italians, without needing you to dedicate them on June 2. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You see, when the President of the Council, who said he was selling seven rifles to create a scholarship, asked what the seven soldiers would do without a rifle, he replied that he would put them in the rear to talk about peace. And you did not say a word; almost as if it were not all the military, with their commitment, to defend peace every day in arms! They're not war lovers, the military! [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Dear Minister Thirty, we, rather than the rainbow flag, love the Tricolor. We love the Tricolor. (The Senators of the FdI Group expose the Tricolor. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u44	No, I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u45	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). And since, as the proverb teaches, after thirty will come thirty-one, we hope that you will pass soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u46	I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 3.46 p.m. and resumed at 3.48 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, on behalf of the Group of the European Forza Italia, I would like to ask you about the long-standing and controversial issue of the weapon allocation relating to the renewal programme for our air fleet through the introduction of new generation fighters, called F-35. As you know, the Forza Italia Group has never doubted the strategic and industrial importance of Italy's participation in the F-35 programme. On the part of the government, however, there is no clarity, there has been no clarity and we do not think it is on the horizon. On the subject of the F-35 in fact, as on many other issues, an unusual dynamic is happening: even when you are two you can express three positions. Mr Salvini said that the F-35 programme was indispensable; Di Maio on January 31, 2019 said that absolutely no, you can not throw away the money with the F-35. She has been more cautious, stating that she is studying and evaluating (and she has been studying for a year). Since we believe that the programme is useful and indispensable at the industrial level, in terms of technological development, employment and the improvement of the defence capabilities of Italian airspace, we ask three things: the official position of the Government with regard to the programme, if it exists; the assessments to which it has come in a year of contemplation and reflection; if it considers, in line with the technical opinions that come from the Air Force and the Ministry of Defence, that the program of development and production of new generation strategic fighters, called F-35, can represent, as everyone says, an excellence on the military level and can also be an opportunity for the technological and economic development of the Italian defence industry. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u48	The Minister for Defence, Mr Trenta, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u49	Mr President, the Joint Strike Fighter programme, which started some 20 years ago and continued by the Commissions which have continued to date, is extremely complex both for the technical reasons linked to the characteristics of absolute technological innovation of the aircraft and because it presents a peculiar contractual structure of the international partnership system through which it is proceeding. The choice to participate in the programme from the outset must be read in two ways: to meet the priority needs of national defence and allied through a weapon system with high technology capable of performing advanced multirole functions, allowing the Armed Forces to maintain an adequate margin of technological superiority over possible threats, as well as to ensure access to innovative and state-of-the-art technologies to the national industry with related and appropriate industrial returns and relative employment growth. It should also be said, however, that the financial commitment to the F-35 programme, as originally conceived, is of absolute importance in the defence and public finance budget, and therefore needs to be carefully analysed from the perspective of an overall cost-benefit assessment. Therefore, since my establishment, I have asked the relevant technical offices for an in-depth evaluation of the programme which takes into account the needs and capabilities of our armed forces and the related employment input, the important entrepreneurial repercussions and further variables useful in order to determine a comprehensive reflection on the dossier. At the moment, the Dicastery is authorised to complete the first phase of the project, which will see the construction and delivery of 28 aircraft by 2022 (the aircraft delivered so far are 13), whose contracts have been fully financed as required by the Joint Program Office. The different articulations of the Ministry of Defence involved are, as I said, examining the consequences - in terms of capacity and industrial and employment - of the possible scenarios resulting from the possible remodulation of the profile of acquisition of aircraft, or the level of participation in the program. I think it is absolutely clear and acceptable that any political assessment that precedes an in-depth technical evaluation risks appearing superficial, approximate and reckless. In conclusion, I feel it is my duty to point out that decisions on the future of the programme cannot, in the light of the strategic international, industrial and employment implications, be entrusted to the Ministry of Defence alone. I believe that there is a need for a choral assessment to enable the Commission to consistently support a representative position of a long-term commitment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u50	Senator Causin has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it seems incredible to me that we should open an evaluation on issues that have already been assessed and are in progress, but this is just a parenthesis. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which, however, I consider not exhaustive and unsatisfactory. I would remind you, Minister, that Defence is not a secondary sector of the State, but a common good of the State and of the citizens and, as such, must not only be preserved, but must also be the subject of correct and fair investments. I think it is on the basis of these assessments that, on time, it was decided to implement the F-35 programme. We know that the gap between Italy and its investments and objectives is wide: we spend 1.25% on the average of 2% on the NATO countries. Even the reductions that you have put on the multi-annual budget of Defense, of 600 million euros, certainly go in the direction of further penalising this program and therefore lead us to fear that you want, perhaps, to make the program F-35 the end that you have made to the program of drones of Piaggio Aerospace, an already ongoing program that has been stopped. For Christ's sake, they are chosen but we do not share them at all. On the contrary, we believe - and I would like to stress this - that the F-35 programme will enable us to assume, increase and improve our defence capacities; it will enable Italy to progress from a technological point of view and will also be a major response in terms of scientific developments and employment. For this reason, on behalf of the Group, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with your reply, with the hope that you will be able to devote time to this issue and finally reach the further assessments necessary to give a definitive response to this programme, also because we have become the laughing stock of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u52	Senator Maiorino has the right to explain the question 3-00868 on the protection of the military affected by pathologies contracted during missions to the Balkans, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u53	Mr President, kind Minister, the case broke out in 2001 with the emergence of the first episodes of Italian soldiers sick or deceased on their return from missions to Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, two countries where NATO, in 1995 and 1999, had used depleted uranium bullets. According to data from the Military Observatory, there are at least 4,000 veterans in our country affected by asbestos-related diseases and 359 deaths. It is also confirmed by scientific research that these bullets are dangerous, both for the radioactivity emitted and for the toxic nano-dusts released into the environment. In addition, touching human events related to pathologies contracted due to pathogens continue to occur, to which constant attention must be paid and a necessary search for the truth ensured. Moreover, in recent days, news of a military man who took his life has appeared on some media outlets, because he was affected by a disease related to exposure to depleted uranium during some missions abroad; he had been forced to face a long and painful dispute with the Ministry of Defence. Finally, the Minister had the courage to break the wall of silence on the responsibilities of the Defense, announcing the creation of a technical table and legislative measures precisely to protect our military. All of this, therefore, is asked to know what are these concrete measures that the Minister intends to take to address a problem that has caused so much suffering and continues to provoke in military personnel, which has put at risk their physical safety in order to serve the State and which the State has the duty to protect. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u54	The Minister for Defence, Mr Trenta, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u55	Mr President, I would like to thank the senator for this question, which allows me to explain the position of the Defense and my staff on a very sensitive subject for the lives of each of us: the protection of health. It is an issue that is all the more important for all those workers who are most exposed to occupational risks and, among them, the military. Identifying the causes of the pathologies that have affected or may affect the military is an absolute priority for us and, to the same extent, we are concerned to manifest every possible form of solidarity to those who have become ill, finally giving an answer to those who have been waiting for it for too long. Since my inception, I have considered it a priority to protect the military affected by diseases in relation to exposure to harmful agents and to break that deafening silence which had been denounced by the Committee of Inquiry chaired by Mr Scanu. For these reasons, the conclusions reached by that Commission were considered to be the point from which the work of the technical table started, in order to deepen the criticalities that emerged in relation to the exposure to particular environmental risk factors in the Defense field. In recent days the table has concluded its activity with the proposition of a final report and a possible legislative text, which only after receiving the concordance opinion of the Dicasteries concerned will begin its process of approval. The solutions identified to respond to the requests of those who have become ill during the service due to exposure to harmful substances, including uranium, will act on several fronts. Firstly, it is proposed to reverse the burden of proof, thereby lifting staff from having to prove that they have contracted the disease as a result of exposure to harmful substances during the service. It will now be the Administration that must demonstrate, beyond any reasonable doubt, that the disease comes from other causes, other than those of exposure to risk factors. It is also proposed that procedures should be adopted to ensure that the procedure is as objective as possible in the territorial or central medical committees in order to avoid any difference in treatment between similar cases as far as possible. It is also considered necessary to intervene on some critical issues related to a heavy regulatory stratification determined over the years, drawing new operating methods to streamline the procedures and reduce the waiting times for the personnel concerned. The recent news from the newspapers about the discovery of uranium in the marrow of a military confirms - if ever needed - that we must respond quickly to the tragedy of the many military and their families and make the relationship of trust between the Administration and its staff ever stronger. Moreover, with great satisfaction I have learned that recently the Council of State has identified the legal nature, assumptions and scope of application of the provisions of the Military Order Code (COM) and the single regulatory text of the military order (TUOM) which protect the civilian and military personnel who are ill from certain serious cancer diseases because they are exposed to particular risk factors. Therefore, in order to clarify with the above judgment - as I have always argued - the health committees competent to recognize from the medical-legal point of view the existence of the requirements for the special allowance today will have to demonstrate in concrete terms what are the causes of the pathologies that have affected the staff other than those automatically attributable to the situations of danger covered by COM and TUOM. In the same direction the draft law is being drawn up by the technical table mentioned. The draft law will only be able to respond favourably to this judicial arrest and make finally usable, objective and fair the recognition of the special compensation for all those who during the service have been exposed - for example - to risk factors deriving from participation in operational missions, to stress from particular environmental and operating conditions and of course also to working environments polluted by the so-called depleted uranium. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u56	Senator Maiorino has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u57	Minister, thank you for your reply and, above all, for the initiatives you have already taken and which you are taking, which demonstrate the attention which unfortunately has so far been sadly lacking. These are important steps that meet the needs of our military personnel, who have remained inequitable and unheard for too long. It is an even more important change of direction because his assurances arrive just on the eve of the Feast of the Republic, an anniversary that will be dedicated, by his express will, to the victims, including the Italian military returned from the operating theatres suffering from cancer due to depleted uranium and which deserve from the State of the answers. We, despite the evil interpretations and scenes that we have had to witness in this House by professional opponents, are very grateful for the initiatives of the Minister and we are very proud of his choice. A bill to protect the rights of the sick military is an innovative and ambitious objective which demonstrates, once again, the sensitivity of this Government and the Minister on issues that have long been ignored. I only hope that on such a delicate issue, which concerns the life and health of the many servants of the State in uniform who, in the service rendered to the country and to the institutions, have never failed in the performance of their duty, Parliament does not prove to be divided. I hope, however, that it proves to be compact and cohesive in supporting the initiatives proposed by the Ministry. I can assure you that the Movimento 5 Star Group, too, will be ready to support and protect our military personnel. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Rufa and Pianasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u58	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume after the Conference of Leaders, which will be convened at 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.21 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, following the rewording of amendment 1.7 on the decree-law unblocks yards, the Conference of Leaders set the deadline for submission of sub-amendments at 12 noon tomorrow. The continuation of the discussion of the decree-law will continue, until its conclusion, Tuesday 4 June, from 9.30 a.m., with sitting without closing hours. The other topics provided for in the timetable remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u60	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Tuesday, June 4 h. 9,30 - Following bill n. 1248 - Decree-Law n. 32, Unblock yards (decades on 17 June) - Drawing of law n. 920-B - Concreteness of the actions of the public administrations (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (connected to the maneuver of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawings of law n. 980 and 885 - Contrast to the circonvention of the elderly - Drawing of law n. 1088 - Ratification with Kenya on the Space Center Luigi Broglio - Doc. XXIV, n. 5 - Resolution of the 9th Commission on the invasion of Asian marble wire - Motions on the fight against climate change (Wednesday 5) - Motions on Radical Radio - Immediate response questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 6:15) Wednesday 5 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 6 " h. 9.30-20]] The week from 10 to 14 June will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, June 18 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 35, Urgent measures for the health service of the Calabria Region (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on July 1st) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 20 and 21 June 2019 (Wednesday 19, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Minimum hourly salary (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Common detachment of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 20 hours 15) Wednesday 19 h. 9.30-20 Thursday 20 h.]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 35, Urgent measures for the health service of the Calabria Region) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The terms for the submission of amendments to the draft law n. 310 and related (Minimum hourly salary), n. 897 and related (Videosurveillance) and n. 1144 and related (Common detacco of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna Region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, June 25, h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 34, Economic Growth (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on June 29) - Vote for the election of two members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data (vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 26, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of law n. 944 - European delegation law 2018 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. LXXXVI, point 2 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 2 - Consumative report on Italy's participation in the European Union, relating to 2018 (where concluded by the Commission) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Drawing of constitutional law n. 214-515-805-B - Reduction of the number of parliamentarians (approved in first resolution by the Senate; approved without amendment in first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies) (second resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1089 - Provisions on popular legislative initiative and referendum (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1200 and related - Protection of victims of gender violence (from the drafting seat) (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union - Immediate questions, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 27h.15) Wednesday 26 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 27 " h.]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No.... (Decree-Law No. 34, Economic Growth) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and constitutional bill No 1089 (Provisions on popular legislative initiative and referendum) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1248 (Decree-Law No 32, Unblock yards) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 920-B (Concreteness of Public Administration Actions) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 35, Urgent measures for the health service of the Calabria Region) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 June 2019 (2 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours, of which: M5S 29' FI-BP 20' L-SP-PSd'Az 20' PD 18' FdI 12' Mixed 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 34, Economic growth) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 2 and Doc. LXXXVII, No 2 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u63	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that yesterday was the seventh anniversary of the earthquake that hit the territory of Emilia-Romagna on 29 May 2012, causing deaths and destruction. It is our duty to remind this House of the 28 victims of that disastrous event, the many injured, displaced persons and the damage suffered by the territories of the Provinces of Modena, Ferrara, Bologna and Reggio Emilia. During these years, thanks to the spirit of self-denial of citizens, businesses, associations and institutions, Emilia-Romagna has managed to recover in those areas, starting again with even more positive economic results. Great progress has been made in the reconstruction process and enormous effort has been made in recent years to rebuild homes, businesses, public works and historical and artistic assets. I remember that, from the day of the event, not a day of school was lost and all the pupils in September entered school, with continuity and tranquility. Certainly there are still issues and issues to be resolved. Since January 2019 the state of emergency has ceased in 29 of the 59 municipalities affected by the earthquake, while the state of emergency remains active in the 30 most affected and damaged municipalities forming the restricted crater. The good work put in place by the central-left government in recent years has unfortunately been frustrated by the immobilism and inability of this government. We are talking about the unblocking of yards, which will probably want to unlock the yards, but it will have to stop the reconstruction and I remind you that if the amendment on Invitalia is not approved, the people who are working on the reconstruction will return home. I believe that these areas should not be abandoned at all and, since we will discuss this during the examination of the so-called decree unblocking yards, I would ask that the work begun should continue. Only the intervention of the Emilia-Romagna Region has allowed to draw, again for this year, a positive balance of the things made. I think that the cooperation that we - both as senators and as MPs - have always offered to the government in the previous parliamentary term has led to excellent and positive results. We never stopped in front of this. Sure, there's still a lot to do. Such a complex reconstruction will still take a long time to be properly completed, but the political, economic and social stalemate in which this country lies and the future prospects increasingly confused and uncertain evidently do not help even this great step that has been taken with the reconstruction. The Democratic Party, of course, is ready to continue working together to complete the reconstruction process. I hope that the government will also continue to help us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-116.ana.u65	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 4 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.26 p.m.
