ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u6	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, in view of the subject, I would ask you to observe a moment of silence. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government, Massimo Bordin died a few hours ago, the voice of Radio Radicale, so familiar to all of us and to many Italian listeners who followed him every morning, with his unmissable press review, and who followed him on special justice, on correspondence of various kinds, from the United States, from Israel; Massimo Bordin, the voice of the radio that has also and for a long time authoritatively directed. His disappearance reminds us how much Radical Radio has represented for the entire Italian political information, and not only for the audiovisual one, from the second half of the seventies of the last century until today. Massimo Bordin then goes the memory - grateful, I believe - of all of us. [[Applause]] To us remains regret for his illness and death, therefore a heartfelt mourning to the family and to the editorial staff all. I am convinced that this Senate will find a way to remember it more appropriately than I can do in such a summary way at this moment. Massimo Bordin is gone, he is gone: let the earth be light to him; but a part of all of us also goes away. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u7	Personally and as President, I agree with your memory and, as you have rightly requested, Senator Bonino, there will be a time to remember that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u10	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wanted to associate myself with the memory of Massimo Bordin. I say this with the utmost human and professional respect for the current director Alessio Falconio, but for me Massimo was Radio Radicale and it was politics. Starting every day, since politics became an interest for me, listening to the press review conducted by Massimo Bordin, was the way to start with politics. It wasn't just a press review, it was an opportunity for analysis, ideas and insights. Massimo was an old man in the trade and, as few, he had a political culture. It should be said that this is one of those gaps that can hardly be filled. I consider symbolically emblematic the fact that he wanted to leave his microphone at a time like this, in which politics, for so many reasons and because of all of us, is touching its lower levels and Radical Radio risks being closed. I really associate myself with the heart, as well as with reason, with the memory expressed by Emma Bonino and I hope that something will change at least for Radio Radicale. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u13	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party is fully aware of the words that Senator Bonino has spoken with great emotion. I think it is really appropriate to plan an initiative that allows us to tell well and in depth how great was the contribution that Massimo Bordin gave to civil journalism in Italy. I would like to stress, in this very little time that I am allowed, that Massimo Bordin's morning press review was, for many Italians, an opportunity and an exercise of intelligent education to the duties and rights of citizenship: it was not only the story of what was written in the newspapers, but a way to have reasons not to follow a simplistic and demagogic approach to political debate. To inspire it was the principle that in order to be politically orientate and to decide well it is necessary to know; and it is only well known if we make an unfavorable comparison between the many opinions that of course are in the field, in a pluralistic democracy like ours. From this point of view, he was indeed an excellent journalist and I am particularly pleased to mention not only Massimo Bordin, author of the morning press review, but the cursor who for years and years, with great consistency, defended, even when it was more difficult to do so, the reasons for guaranteeing against the false ones of a liberal, culturally subalternal and demagogic justiceism, which in my opinion has done so much harm to the democracy of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Bordin did this battle with sobriety, conviction, great vigor and energy and really making a significant contribution. I believe that for these reasons an initiative should be envisaged to remember this adequately, even at a distance from an event that disturbs us all in this way. I believe it is right and acceptable, especially at this time the wish expressed by Senator Bonino and Senator Cangini that this event is also a reason to reflect on the opportunity to block an operation that would result in the end of a great experience of democracy such as that of Radio Radicale. I consider it a commitment to be undertaken with great force in memory of Massimo Bordin. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u16	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I join in the words of mourning and affection for the family and the people who were close to Massimo Bordin. His press review kept me company in the morning for many years, even when I performed other functions, those of magistrate, because it was not a mere reading of the newspapers, but a way of dealing with the news of politics and the chronicle with irony, with comments that emphasized the news and with a political passion that I had the opportunity to appreciate personally, as President of the Senate, during meetings that I had with him recently. April 1st was the last day that I could hear his voice and still I am dear to that attempt to search the pages of the newspapers, to give value to the news in relation to the page in which it was placed by the editorial staff and a series of details of his activity that made him unique in my eyes. On behalf of the Group of Free and Equal, I therefore join in the mourning towards family members and all Radical Radio, which I hope from his death can not say rebirth - because she is still alive - but survive: that her death can serve to keep Radio Radicale alive: this is what we all hope. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u17	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause]] Senator Di Nicola, I saw only after the beginning of the minute of recollection that he wanted to intervene: he could do it another time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u18	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1165. The rapporteur, Senator Di Piazza, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Senator colleagues and fellow Senators, the Finance Committee has concluded its examination of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 22 of 2019 on urgent measures to ensure the security, financial stability and integrity of the markets, as well as the protection of the health and freedom of residence of Italian citizens and those of the United Kingdom in the event of their withdrawal from the European Union. The work in the Commission has been positive, balanced and often shared. I would like to thank the senators, for their contribution and for the smooth and smooth progress of their work, as well as the Commission's officials for their crucial technical role. The decree-law was issued at a time when there is still uncertainty about the timing and the modalities of exit from the European Union of the United Kingdom, which reached an agreement of withdrawal on 22 November 2018, which however was rejected by the Parliament of the Kingdom on 29 March 2019, date coinciding with the expiry of the two-year period from the notification of the determination to withdraw. At the extraordinary European Council held on 10 April 2019, devoted to assessing how the United Kingdom intends to proceed following the non-approval of the withdrawal agreement, it adopted conclusions in which, in particular, on the basis of the United Kingdom's requests, it agreed to grant a further extension of the deadline under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union to allow the ratification of the withdrawal agreement. This extension, in any case, will not go beyond 31 October 2019, nor will it allow the smooth functioning of the institutions of the European Union to be undermined. It has also been established that during the extension period the United Kingdom remains a member of the European Union with full rights and obligations and may revoke the notice of withdrawal at any time. The provisions in question mainly address the need to provide a clear legal framework for the financial relations between Italy and the United Kingdom. To these are added some that, although not directly related to Brexit, are aimed at ensuring the security of citizens and financial stability. Chapter I, in Article 1, announces Decree-Law No 21 of 2012, laying down rules on special powers over corporate structures in the fields of defence and national security, as well as on activities of strategic importance in the fields of energy, transport and communications. In particular, the standard aims to update the rules on special powers, as a result of technological developments, with particular reference to 5G technology and related risks of misuse of data with implications for national security. These powers are assisted by a notification obligation applicable to Contracting Parties to contracts or agreements enabling the Commission to exercise its veto in good time. In Chapter II, the Decree-Law creates a scenario in which Italian entities operating in the banking, financial and insurance sectors are allowed, unless otherwise foreseen by the United Kingdom, to continue their operations, while operators in the United Kingdom are required to narrow the scope of partial action (banks, investment firms and electronic money institutions) or total (payment institutions, funds and their managers and insurance undertakings). In particular, Article 2 lays down the transitional rules applicable in order to ensure financial stability in the event of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union in the absence of agreement and provides definitions of certain expressions used in the text of the Decree-Law, such as that of the banking, financial and insurance companies to which the rules apply. Article 3 governs the continuation, during the transitional period, of the activity by banks, investment firms and electronic money institutions already authorised to provide the relevant services. The possibility to continue to operate is conditional on the notification to the competent authorities and the submission of an application for authorisation to carry out the activity within six months from the date of withdrawal. The rules distinguish between persons operating on a stable basis, using the right of establishment, from those operating under the freedom to provide services. In this second case, without prejudice to the need for notification, the following activities are excluded: for banks, the possibility of collecting savings; for investment firms, the possibility of operating vis-à-vis retail customers. For the electronic money institution, however, full operation under the freedom to provide services is excluded. The article also provides for two special business continuation schemes: one for banks and investment firms in the United Kingdom empowered to participate in the auction of government bonds on the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law under consideration, which may continue to carry out banking services and activities, with the exception of the asset collection activity, as well as services and investment activities without the need for notification; one for the management of life-cycle events of particular categories of derivative contracts over the counter in existence at the date of withdrawal. During the examination, Amendment 3.2 was approved, which aims to clarify that banks and investment firms operate in accordance with the provisions of the TUB and the TUF until the day before the withdrawal. Article 4 instead lists the entities of the United Kingdom operating in Italy that are required to cease the activity by the date of withdrawal: payment institutions, fund managers, collective investment bodies of savings, electronic money institutions operating under the freedom to provide services or through agents or affiliated entities. The collection of savings and the provision of investment services, where carried out under the freedom to provide services, must also cease without a permanent establishment in the territory of the Republic. The list shall also include persons authorised to continue the activity which we have not notified of the intention to do so to the authority and who do not give an application for authorisation six months after the beginning of the transitional period. In order to ensure greater transparency and customer protection, a reporting obligation has been provided for those who cease these activities, aimed at ensuring the cessation of those activities. Article 5 indicates the Italian entities for which, in compliance with the provisions laid down in the United Kingdom, the continuation of the activity is permitted during the transitional period. The continuation shall be conditional on notification obligations to the competent authorities and the submission of an application for authorisation to carry out the related activities within 12 months of the end of the transitional period. Such obligations are not necessary, however, if the parties have submitted an application for authorisation to the competent authorities by the date of withdrawal, as required by amendment 5.1. Article 6 regulates the possibility that operators of Italian trading venues (e.g. Borsa Italiana SpA) may continue to operate in the United Kingdom and that, on the other hand, operators of trading venues in the United Kingdom may continue to operate in the territory of the Republic. This option is granted subject to the submission, by the date of withdrawal, of an application for the extension of operations in the United Kingdom by the Italian operators and, vice versa, of one in Italy by the United Kingdom operators. Article 7 lays down the obligation for banks, investment firms and payment and electronic money institutions to maintain their adherence to out-of-court dispute resolution systems with clients governed, as regards banking services, by Article 128-a of the TUB and, as regards investment ones, by Article 32-b of the TUF. Article 8 establishes, for banks and investment firms that may continue to carry out banking and investment activities and services during the transitional period, the right to join the Italian depositor guarantee schemes and investor compensation schemes. The legal accession shall also apply to entities operating in the system of freedom to provide services, fund managers, banks and investment firms which cease services and activities as provided for in Article 4, except where such entities submit to the Italian system (guarantee or compensation) a declaration of that of the United Kingdom, certifying that their investors will continue to be protected for the period following the date of withdrawal. In addition, information obligations are established with regard to depositors and investors, which allow them to be properly informed of the protections applicable to them. Article 9 relates to the insurance sector and provides for the cancellation of UK insurance undertakings operating in the territory of the Republic, both in their establishment and in their freedom to provide services, from the list of undertakings in the European Union after the date of withdrawal. During the transitional period, UK insurance undertakings continue to operate within the limits of the management of existing contracts and current cover on the date of withdrawal without entering into new contracts or renewing existing contracts, including tacit renewal. According to the following Article 10, insurance or reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom, i.e. persons active in the distribution of insurance policies operating in Italy, also cease their business by the date of withdrawal and are deleted from the relevant register. In order to protect the customers, the operations necessary for the orderly closure of the distribution relationships already in place, no later than six months from the date of withdrawal, are subject to. Article 11 instead provides for the continuation of the activities of Italian insurance or reinsurance undertakings operating in the territory of the United Kingdom under the conditions of establishment or freedom to provide services. Article 12 provides that UK investment funds are to be treated as European investment funds throughout the transitional period. Italian pension funds are therefore allowed to continue to invest in UK funds. Article 13 contains a general provision and provides for the maintenance of existing tax legislation during the transitional period provided for in the withdrawal agreement reached on 22 November 2018. In particular, it is expected that national tax provisions in accordance with the membership of the United Kingdom of the European Union will continue to apply to entities in the United Kingdom operating in Italy until 31 December 2020. Articles 14, 15, 16 and 17 contain rules on the following subjects: residence in Italy of nationals of the United Kingdom and their family members who are not nationals of a Member State of the European Union; granting of Italian citizenship to nationals of the United Kingdom; strengthening of Italian consular services in the United Kingdom; health and social security benefits under social security systems. In the airport field, amendment 10.0.1, aimed at maintaining the existing air tariff system between Italy and the United Kingdom, pending Brexit, was approved in order to prevent the increase in tariffs resulting from the loss of Community status to the second country. A provision has also been introduced which, on condition of reciprocity, safeguards the legal position of students and researchers from the United Kingdom who are present in Italy on the date of withdrawal or who will be present within the academic year 2019-2020. Article 18 authorizes the subscription of capital shares of the European Investment Bank (EIB) by Italy, amounting to approximately €6.9 billion. The subscription of Italy is made necessary to replace the capital subscribed by the United Kingdom and thus ensure the Bank's operation, solvency and credit quality. Article 19 lays down provisions for support for the international activity of the Government. The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be able to recruit staff, linked to the Italian Presidency of the G20 in 2021 and to the European and international negotiations on economic and financial matters. During the work, two provisions were introduced concerning international accounting standards, in particular Amendment 19.0.3 and Amendment 19.0.4. Another important novelty concerns the possibility for the Cassa depositi e prestiti e i equivalent strutture europeo, to carry out own-account trading activities in the wholesale trading venues of government bonds. In conclusion, in Chapter III, Articles 20 to 23 of the Decree-Law allow the continuation of measures to support the disposal of outstanding claims in bank accounts, through the granting of State guarantees in the context of securitisation operations which have as underlying outstanding claims. To this end, the mechanisms governed by Decree-Law No 18 of 2016, to which some amendments are made, are used. The framework under which only so-called senior securitisations, i.e. those considered to be less risky, are eligible for the State guarantee is confirmed and the most risky securities cannot be repaid if the tranches of securities covered by the State guarantee are not repaid in full first. Guarantees may be requested by banks against the payment of a periodic fee to the Treasury, calculated as an annual percentage of the guaranteed amount. The price of the guarantee is expected to be market-based, in order not to give rise to State aid, and increasing over time, in order to take account of the higher risks associated with a longer duration of securities and to introduce an incentive into the mechanism to recover credits quickly. For the purpose of the issue of the guarantee, securities issued against the securitisation must have previously obtained a rating equal to or greater than the BBB rating from an independent rating agency and included in the list of those accepted by the ECB, according to the criteria that they are required to observe. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u20	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the measure is better known as the Brexit Decree seems to put the content of Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which deals with fifth generation technologies, more known as 5G, into the background. Of course, the issues of Brexit and the banks, which were dealt with extensively by the rapporteur, are also important, but I do not think that there has been enough discussion of Article 1. I believe that we need to focus on fifth generation technologies, which are part of the area of so-called digitalization, which today goes beyond the Internet and sees the centrality of artificial intelligence, not only to improve the productivity of our country, but precisely to reposition its industrial model on a new paradigm. I therefore believe that this issue must be considered in depth, which is that both Italy and Europe are not doing properly, and above all with a vision, thinking of a European industrial policy, which sees digital technologies as central, in addition to industry. I would like to mention one thing: the World Economic Forum claims that the combined value of industry and digital is more than $100,000 billion - these are impressive numbers - in the period between 2016 and 2025. We are discussing so much about how to increase GDP in the country and the data are not comforting: why not make a thorough thought about these issues at European Union level? I am thinking above all of the Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers. Just yesterday Vice-President Salvini, for example, guest of the television broadcast conducted by Giovanni Floris, said he wanted representatives of the Italian people to the European Parliament, who could bring the interests of our farmers and those involved in fishing. Of course these are important areas, but I think that we should also send someone to Europe who is in charge of these matters, which are indeed those of the future. In this respect, the data I have mentioned above really need to be reflected. On the Horizon Europe programme for the period 2021-2027, so it seems that Europe has allocated EUR 7 billion - it is again extremely important figures - I believe that Italy must play an important game. I think it is well known to all that the three macro-phenomenons of globalisation, immigration and digitisation, which are international in scope, have not been well governed at European level and cannot be governed by a single country. Going back to digital technologies, I remember that the president of Asstel, the association of telecom companies, Guindani, said that we have to reason on digital ecosystems, open and permeable, that we cannot block, nor regulate too much. Today, however, we are concerned about this (and this happens not only in Italy but at European level) without doing anything to stop the concern, the legislation and the various regulations on the protection of networks and data. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing can be done about this: digital and real are so permeated with each other that, if we think about what telecommunications have done, we fully understand that the phenomenon is unstoppable, including what we want to stop. There has been talk of a moratorium on fifth generation wireless technology, based on the opinions of the Scientific Committee on Environmental and Emerging Health Risks. This must make us reflect once again on the time we are losing without thinking about a European player. The United States and China, on the other hand, are thinking about these matters: the war between these two great countries is well known on these issues, precisely because they have both understood that today is the central figure in the real economy. We've always talked about capital and work, which is then joined by finance as a factor in a country's development. Today we must also start talking about central data in the real economy, given the generator of new wealth, around which we are going to build an important piece of our GDP. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] While the United States has a lot to do with players and large groups (think of Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple), but they do little about regulatory power, China deals with both large players and regulatory power (think of players like Alibaba and Huawei and the regulatory power that revolves around government domain data). This is my personal thought: the Chinese model needs to be studied. I am not saying that the data should be public rather than private, but that it should be the property of those who produce it and not of those who manage it or store it. The owner must be who, in the production of the data, is able to create wealth. It is clear that we must set rules and rules to protect citizens (we must always do everything in the interests of the people) and data. We certainly cannot think of not regulating this matter, but we must not waste too much time in sophisticated regulations, in reasoning on the security of data and networks and in very complex coordinated risk assessments, on which - I repeat - we are doing a great deal of chaos both because of lack of competence, and because we are neglecting the importance of the data, which is central to the economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] CALIENDO (FI-BP). Bravo! TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Colleagues, I'd like to tell you one more thing. In the last two or three years we have generated 80-90 percent of the data compared to the total of those generated from the beginning of humanity up to a two-year period, three years ago (i.e., only 10-20 percent). That is what we need to think about with Europe, but Europe, through the Commissioners who will lead it, will absolutely have to redefine industrial policy better, which it has not done in the last twenty or thirty years. Let me add one more thought. Italy can play an important game right now; let's not let it play either France or Germany. We must have the courage, vision, strength and determination to disassemble this axis. Let's get in there. Let's get in there. We have a player who has been very important, whose brand is still world-wide; I really say that, not only for belonging to the territory, but because I really believe it. [[Call the president back.]] I'm done. This brand is Olivetti. Olivetti industrial plants can truly become the home of a European digital platform, where we can build everything that revolves around big data, smart data, digital technologies, all that innovative world that serves to give a response to future generations. I really invite you to reflect more deeply on these issues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u22	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u23	Mr President, I greet the Government and colleagues and wish them good afternoon. I very much thank Senator Tiraboschi, because he touched on one of the two topics I wanted to address in the general discussion, which concern the draft law under consideration, of converting a decree-law known only - I don't know why - as Brexit decree, while in reality he touches on two other issues that are vital. I will not intervene on the issue of Brexit. I will, of course, listen to my colleagues in the Commission and to Senator Fantetti, who for us is the best expert on this matter, also for the relations he has with England and I will focus on two other issues. Rightly, Senator Tiraboschi introduced the question of technology. Let us remember that in December the problem arose with the question of 5G technology, which is essentially held, as we know, by one of the largest Chinese companies, which completely dominates the market. In particular, a problem arose with reference to Infratel, which is a partner company of the Ministry and therefore of the State, regarding the supply of technological equipment. In practice, the country suddenly discovered that it could be faced with a Chinese management of its sensitive data. If I remember correctly, it was more or less the time when Di Maio was wandering around - in the sense that he was ‐ in the United States of America and was also warned from this point of view. For this reason I imagine that it was then introduced in this decree-law ‐ and not by chance in Article 1- the game relating to the possibility of exercising what is called the golden share on 5G technology. I believe, however, that it is appropriate to add, because it is a relevant issue, since we also want to talk about security, that the problem connected to the presence of this Chinese giant in all the sensitive points of our economy has certainly not arisen now - indeed, in fact, the green light has been given by the central-left governments - and sees a significant presence in societies such as Enel, Terna, Fastweb, Ferrovie dello Stato and Poste Italiani. I believe that, in addition to the forecasts that have been made - I assume on the wave of warnings that the United States has given to Vice Prime Minister Di Maio - perhaps more attention should be given to the indications that are given in the national security documents, which each Member had attached to the annual report (it is also written in the 2018 report) and refer to the issues related to espionage and acquisition that can be made of all data by foreign powers. Then, we can also decide to stay with one or the other - from this point of view, the foreign policy of this Government seems somewhat mysterious to me, so I do not say - but the awareness of the framework that, in my opinion, goes beyond the possibility of simply exercising the golden share with reference to 5G, should at least be the subject of correct information towards the Italian people. There is another aspect that I would like to touch on about the issue of credit securitisation. This is an issue on which colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars should give me some explanation. Why? You have rightly fought for the protection of savers; I can understand that, in fact, some kind of cheerful behavior is sometimes carried out by banks. However, you have to explain to me why, in the end, the legislation that has been recalled, in a concise but timely manner, by the rapporteur, on how to fix the deteriorated loans of the banks, both in terms of meaning, translates in substance into a risk that is transferred not so much to the State and to the guarantee funds, but to those who will subscribe to those products within which there will be credit deteriorated with the bubble perhaps of the three Bs. I believe that this is absolutely incomprehensible, taking into account the kind of policies that the forces of the majority want to pursue. The problem is that, in fact, even with the state guarantee - and we could discuss this too - we are going to make a securitisation of suffering. This means that a bank can make a transaction whereby the famous non-performing debts (which weigh in banks' balance sheets) are securitisation: securities are issued that would have as collateral for loans, but the risk is transferred to the final bond subscribers, who may not see the repayment of interest or capital due at the time when there was no effective collection of loans. Frankly, I believe that a policy according to which, on the one hand, we go to tell that we defend the savers and, on the other, we set up a system in which the saver risks finding the product prefabricated by his bank, with the certification of the three Bs (although articulated, annexed and connected) that eventually falls on the old man in turn who does not know well where to invest something, is not in line with what has been said and proclaimed in all sauces by this Government of change. I do not discuss the fact that banks are full of this stuff because people do not pay, but I discuss the fact that you cannot have a two-faced head: on the one hand, to provide a guarantee fund and to say that swindled savers must be repaid and, on the other hand, to put in circulation tools that can allow the perpetuation of this approach. Keep in mind that civil society, what you would simply call the people, prudent and a little familiar with the mechanisms, is perfectly aware that this stuff comes into circulation with a whole series of consequences that can be negative for individuals. In conclusion, I believe that we need a little more clarity of ideas, with reference to the issue of 5G, and a little more consistency with regard to the protection of savers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u25	Mr President, the Brexit Decree-Law, which regulates banking, financial and insurance services in the event of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union in the absence of an agreement, sees the Democratic Party essentially in agreement with the safeguard measures in relation to certain problematic areas resulting from the possible withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without a default deal. The decree-law intervenes, among other things, with a series of guarantees for the activities of the operators of the United Kingdom active in Italy and the Italian ones active in the United Kingdom. We believe that this is a rule of law, which allows the Italian legal order to function, allowing us to continue working, to study, to invest, to be treated, in essence, to operate, both to the Italians present in the United Kingdom, and to the subjects of His British Majesty who are in our country: all this as a result of the rupture of the communitarian concord resulting from the exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union system. The rules aim essentially to allow British banks, investment firms and electronic money institutions, operating through branches of the United Kingdom, to continue their business in Italy even during the transitional period, which the Decree-Law provides for in eighteen months, after notification to the competent authorities three days before the date of Brexit. The UK banks, which carry out savings collection activities, cannot conclude new contracts or renew existing ones. No notification is required for banks participating in government bond auctions, with the exception of the asset collection activity. In order to continue to operate in Italy, even after the transitional period, or to form an Italian intermediary, these entities will have to submit a specific application within six months of the start of the transition. The decree-law also strengthens the golden power on 5G technology, even after the controversy followed by the agreements with China on the new Silk Road. The 5G network is a backbone of our digital infrastructures and it was therefore essential and important to intervene in this area. Especially as a result of the agreements that have developed with China, the Government has decided to include these rules alongside the preponderant ones on Brexit. With this choice, the operator or telecommunications operators who wish to acquire 5G networks will have to inform the Presidency of the Council of Ministers beforehand, so that the Government can decide whether to veto the operation or impose specific requirements. I believe that it is very important - and it was also essential to do so quickly after the agreement with China - to regulate these delicate aspects. The decree-law under discussion also regulates health benefits in case of no deal for British citizens. The text provides that, subject to reciprocity with Italian citizens, the European Regulation No 883 of 2004 for health and social benefits should apply to those persons until 2020. The Decree-Law provides that banks in the United Kingdom, investment firms and UK e-money institutions shall operate in accordance with the banking and financial provisions and shall be applicable to them from the day prior to Brexit. This provision shall apply without prejudice to the provisions of the decree for the transitional period. Once the authorisation has been granted, operators will be able to operate definitively in accordance with the applicable national provisions, without prejudice to the provisions for the authorisation authorities for banks and investment firms established in the United Kingdom and empowered to participate in auctions of government bonds, for which no notification is required, except in order to continue to exercise the asset collection activity. The banks and investment firms of the United Kingdom which, on the date of withdrawal, provide investment services and activities, with or without ancillary services, on the Italian territory under the freedom to provide services, may continue to carry out the same activities in Italy only with regard to qualified counterparties and professional customers. The decree-law also stipulates that within fifteen days from Brexit the obligation to communicate to the customers, as well as to the other subjects with whom they maintain relations in the provision of the services to the competent authorities, the initiatives taken to guarantee the orderly cessation of the activity by those subjects of the United Kingdom that operate in the Italian territory and that for the decree-law they will have to stop own actions in Italy within the date of Brexit. These are the payment institutions of the United Kingdom, the managers of the funds of the United Kingdom, the OICRs, as well as the electronic money institutions operating on the Italian territory under the freedom to provide services or through agents or entities affiliated, as well as the banks and investment firms of the United Kingdom providing investment services under the freedom to provide services to retail customers. After Brexit, operations for the closure of existing reports are allowed, but in the shortest possible time and in any case no later than six months from the date of withdrawal, with compliance with the notice periods for the termination of contracts. Within six months these subjects continue the activity carried out previously to the date of Brexit only for the management of the relationships in existence to the date of withdrawal, without possibility to conclude new contracts neither to renew, also tacit, those existing. Another rule of the Decree-Law provides that Italian entities operating in the United Kingdom may continue their activities after Brexit in the transitional period of eighteen months after notification to the competent authorities in accordance with the provisions laid down in the United Kingdom. Such notification shall be made within three working days prior to Brexit. Italian entities may continue to operate in the territory of the United Kingdom beyond the transitional period if, within 12 months of the end of the same transitional period, they submit a special application to the competent authorities. Italian entities that have already applied for the Brexit will not be required to notify in order to operate in the transitional period. I believe that the action we have taken in the Commission to analyse the amendments, including our proposals, as well as the debate we have developed on those tabled by other Members, has certainly made it possible to improve the measure. We are pleased that the rules relating to the Interministerial Committee for the Digital Economy have come out of this measure. We have said that this is important for us too, it must be dealt with and developed, also in line with what is now the competence of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning and that for Credit and Savings, and we believe that there should be another forum where we can discuss these specific and important rules. We believe that it is important and important that the rules that had a connection with banking operations and, in particular, with certain specific types of banks have been removed: they were intruder rules that we are pleased to have been sidelined by this measure. On the other hand, the issue of Linate airport remains open - I hope that in the general discussion we are developing there will also be positive elements of new developments. I am Lombardy and Milanese and, therefore, I believe that there must be a focus in this decree and must allow those who today manage the airport system in Lombardy to continue to do so in the best possible conditions, taking into account what is happening with the operation of Brexit and what could happen without an agreement. I hope that this debate will lead to an agreement and a positive conclusion on these issues as well. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Classico "Cagnazzi" in Altamura, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u27	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u28	Mr President, I take very little time away from this House, because I would like to stigmatise a fact that I have also highlighted in the 8th Commission. Reading the reading form, which the Senate sends to all senators regarding the acts that are at the attention of the Commissions and the House, the first thing that jumped to my eyes was this: normally, within the reading card, in Article 1 there are the object and scope, but in this reading card the object and scope have been inserted in Article 2. I thought it was a mistake, but it is not, that the issue of 5G was shot with a slingshot at the last minute in the Brexit document, which has absolutely nothing to do with the measure that this House is about to vote on today. We have not asked questions, except those mentioned earlier by my colleagues, about the Brexit measure. There is some need for adjustment, but the element 5G, which Mr Tiraboschi described very well just now, has absolutely nothing to do with the measure and you pretend nothing? This theme had to be isolated for intensity, quality and caratura: in a year and a half we turn off the 700 Megahertz and we end up on the 5G. Europe closes this channel - which also concerns Italy and which is worth about EUR 2.5 billion to us - and we share. Moreover, on the subject of what I said to the President of the 8th Commission, I would remind you that we are faced with a specific competence of the Commission for public works and communications, which is precisely the 8th Commission. This Commission did not give an opinion in the referee, where we could have taken action and made a serious argument on the subject, as the last-minute argument was included in a decree-law that had absolutely nothing to do with it. We have tried to remedy this and I do not say it because it is a problem of Forza Italia (if it were a problem of Forza Italia it would solve everything), but because it is a problem of this Parliament. You spoke in the Finance Committee this morning (among others, Senator Conzatti). (The rapporteur spoke with the government representative.) If you want, I'll stop. If it disturbs you that a Senator of Forza Italia says something about these matters, I will stop. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Since it's 5:10 p.m., I can go for tea at this hour, if you like. Instead, I wanted to talk about you, undersecretary Villarosa (to address me to the Presidency, otherwise I am being redacted, as it should be). We have tabled amendments, the first of which is to delete point 1, because we wanted an ad hoc measure to be made, and you, who are those of ad hoc measures - because every time we call for an argument you say that it will be discussed in an ad hoc measure and you have done so in all the Commissions - this time we are asking for it to be put in a decree a measure of EUR 2.5 billion, which will cover the lives of all citizens, native and non-native digital people, as my fellow Senator Tiraboschi says very well. We have proposed that two representatives of Parliament's branches should be included in the committee to verify the requirements of companies that will be eligible for service 5G and that we have been asked for a text 2 by the Commission, and we have diligently prepared a new text, Amendment 1.11 (text 2), in which we have written that the coordination group referred to in paragraph 4 transmits a quarterly report no less than to the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic (which, it is well known, are scalmanates that run for Parliament). Well, you said this morning (it is in the report) that yes, it is interesting, but the committee wants to have free hands. What do you mean, the committee wants their hands free? I say this to you senators: the committee - not the parliamentary committee, but the committee that sits at Palazzo Chigi, which is not made up of representatives of politics but of officials, generals, admirals, scientists - wants to have free hands. What do you mean, he wants his hands free? Is it because Parliament is allowing itself to go into these matters? Woe to you parliamentarians if you are interested in the fate of the country, because the committee wants to have free hands! Absolute honesty: hands free. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You must be ashamed, you must be ashamed to say these things in the Commission and if I had been there this morning perhaps it would not have ended well. You cannot allow yourself to say before Parliament that the Committee of Palazzo Chigi wants to have its hands free of a request from the Senate of the Republic, from the Italian Parliament, which only wants to govern the trials. ENDRIZZI (M5S). You governed the trials! MALLEGNI (FI-BP). This is shameful, and that is what you must dwell on, because it is not a problem of Forza Italia or Senator Mallegni, but it is a problem of the democratic structure of a country. This is the system. To sum up, concluding before we have exhausted the time allocated to me: such an important intervention on the fate of the future of the country, where it will pass all that will be our life, because our life is managed by our smartphones, which are our black boxes, is inserted with a shot inside a measure that has absolutely nothing to do with it and speaks of Brexit, which is an equally important topic; the Commission is exonerated of merit; we are not allowed to discuss the substance of this topic, only Senator Tiraboschi has raised with great detail such a topic and she, at a request of ours to insert a control of Parliament, says: "We want free hands". You must be ashamed! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law solves a mistake, an error of presumption or perhaps an underestimation of the implications that the vote on Brexit has brought about. To date, we have few certainties and many doubts: this legislative text we are debating has been drawn up to provide a useful tool for the many workers, Italian and British, and for the many companies to counter the uncertainty that would be generated by a British exit from the European Union without the ratification of agreements that limit its impact. I speak of underestimation, I could also speak of lightness to refer to the vote that British citizens expressed in June 2016, fomented by short-sighted political forces that even suborcing the difficulties related to the outcome of the measurement victory (just 52 percent to get out, against more than 48 percent to stay) have then virtually disappeared within a couple of years. What remains, however, is the damage done to Britain and to Europe as a whole. Among other things, a non-agreement exit is a very strong slap at almost half of the British, 48% of the citizens, as I said earlier, who have spoken in favour of the European Union and are now totally forgotten by their political representatives. Representatives who, I remember, were able in a few days to vote against a non-agreement exit from Europe, three times against the agreement itself, closed by Prime Minister May, and also against a new referendum on Brexit. It is basically the surrender of the weapons of those who have been called to represent the voters and must make some decisions, for good or for bad. Who's shopping for it? Of course, all citizens, both European and British. The links we have with the UK are close and very important for hundreds of companies and professionals. The role that London has played in recent years, as an economic and financial centre throughout Europe, now confronts us with the need to redefine and reorganize the entire intra- and extra-European financial market. At the beginning of my speech I spoke of very few certainties that we have in this phase of transition and, unfortunately, they are all very negative certainties. First of all, we are talking about the banking and financial sector: already in the last two years all large banking groups have had to relocate their headquarters, move staff, spend hundreds of millions of euros to counter this situation. Secondly, people: there are hundreds of thousands of Europeans who are working in the United Kingdom and who live in a period of extreme uncertainty. Finally, trade: as a country we have an export to the United Kingdom of more than 23 billion euros while we import goods for only 11 billion. A trade balance of more than 12 billion in our favor that unfortunately will suffer from a contraction for our companies, that they will certainly suffer for this situation. Preventing is better than treating. How many times have we heard that? That is precisely why the text we are debating today has been proposed: to prevent the implications of a hard Brexit, because it would be too late afterwards. While it is true that the main agreements are coordinated at European level, providing us with flexible instruments for a transitional period is very much needed. In particular, banking groups, intermediaries and operators will be protected in order to ensure financial stability, market integrity and investor and client protection. For British citizens who have been resident for at least five years in our country, it is possible to apply for a special residence permit, which will allow them to stay on the Italian territory, at the same time as safeguarding health and social rights. Rightly, after many years of organizational difficulties, the consular offices of the United Kingdom are being strengthened, given the amount of work they are engaged in every day. Honestly, let me say, it is scandalous that this strong strengthening of the offices and staff needed to manage the practices has not been done before, by the last governments. The Italians registered in Great Britain are over 330,000. But if we count those who are not registered at AIRE, the number of our compatriots reaches 700,000. An impressive number of people who, to date, have not been given equal commitment by our institutions. But back to the text of the measure, I want to launch a warning bell. Here there are two fundamental elements missing, but I am sure that the Government will integrate them into future measures: the first is an incentive for the return of many Italian citizens who have emigrated to the United Kingdom and who constitute a heritage of experience and capacity that our country must enhance. Today we are thinking about brains and researchers, but we must broaden our horizons. For those who have gained important working experiences abroad, even in the absence of a degree, it is our interest to return to our country to enrich our working and productive fabric. The second element, no less important, is a shield for the many companies exporting goods to Britain. The agri-food sector in the first place, but not only. We need to think in advance of tax rules for the many realities that will certainly suffer from Brexit, even in the presence of agreements with the EU. I will conclude with a hope. My personal opinion is that if the British vote in the next European elections on 26 May, they will do so to give a very strong signal to their government, a signal of unity, a European signal. They will go en masse to the seats to symbolically attribute to May 26 the date of the second referendum, that referendum not yet granted and repeatedly requested by the square. There are many ways to lose the right way, but only one way to find it: to return to one's steps. An anonymous writer wrote: It takes courage to fall in love, but it takes even more courage to go back and repair what is broken. Here, I would like to paraphrase this anonymous: it takes courage to leave but it takes even more courage to go back and rebuild together a new Europe, which also sees the British citizens in this great community. They can still return to their own steps and I hope they can find that courage that waits for nothing else to be revealed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u31	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u32	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on a very dear subject of my own, as an Italian resident of the United Kingdom for a couple of decades, an issue on which we have lost all the certainty we had. We thought the British were an extremely practical people, interested in pursuing the public interest, with clear programming. These cornerstones of the thinking of us Italians in the United Kingdom have been put to the test by the management of the so-called Brexit, of which history will tell us whether it was one of the biggest post-war failures by the United Kingdom or the opportunity to make that leap forward that the Brexit proposers have sold. I would point out that the possibility is still open for the United Kingdom to gain independence in trade policy, which could enable it, for example, to enter a free trade area, such as the highly efficient North American area, and to serve as a platform for Europe in that market. The Trump Presidency has always supported this possibility, which remains one of Brexit's strong arguments. We'll see how this ends. Certainly, in the situation in which the May Government finds itself now, with the need to gather consensus within the Westminster Parliament, across the aisle, on the other hand, then in the Labour opposition, the principle of customs union, of the customs union, is worth denying this possibility. So, to date, no one has any certainty. It is not yet known whether it will be that huge failure that is being sold in the international media or the possibility of making a leap forward. I would remind you that the United Kingdom entered the European Union, the European Single Market, in 1974, because it felt that it was commercially useful for its businesses to be the cornerstone of non-European companies, particularly Japanese ones, in order to get them into the European market, which, in the meantime, had become an example of success. Not for nothing, all the Japanese factories that have arrived in Europe have settled in the United Kingdom. Behind the thought of the Brexitheers, that is, the toughest faction (the so-called European reform group of the conservative party, there is above all this objective that, one must be objective, could also be a great commercial opportunity. We'll see, history will tell us where they went. But what is already in the present and which we must consider is that Brexit, sincerely, produces in the present a series of disasters. The first is at the constitutional level; as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the British do not have a written Constitution, but it exists and ideally sees the action of the British Parliament, the House of Commons. On the basis of the principle of absolute sovereignty of what they consider a prestigious and ancient Parliament in the world, that of Westminster, the Brexiteers fought this battle. However, we have all verified that the British Parliament itself, compared with the Western tradition of the tripartite division of powers from Montesquieu to the present day, suffers a condition of functional inferiority compared to government action. One of the discoveries we have all made is that within Westminster there is a regulation under which the Government business, that is, government activity has a primacy over any other activity of Parliament, and this is something that we, who have a different parliamentary tradition, look at with horror. This is surprising for those who have heard Brexit moving forward on the basis of the demand for the centrality of the British Parliament. Only now, after three unsuccessful attempts by the Government to obtain approval of the exit agreement, are we now to verify that the British Government has begun to respect Parliament a little more. Similarly, we check that there is a constitutional crisis within the United Kingdom. In fact, only England voted to leave: the majority of British residents of Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales voted to stay. There was therefore a problem of the integrity of the United Kingdom, with particular gravity of the situation in Northern Ireland. This has been exemplified several times through the so-called hard border, that is, the border that would be created between Ireland and Northern Ireland and that the peace agreements had now been cancelled by thirty years. So we'll see. We are not yet in a position to decide what will happen; let us verify that a whole series of principles that we used to lay down have been missed. These include, alas, freedom of movement within the European Union. There are four freedoms that the British have tried to squeal in Brussels and which the 27 countries have defended, demonstrating that Europe, when united, can be extremely effective. The British had underestimated the ability to react and the unity of the reaction of Europeans and continue, in a certain way, still undervalued. The European Union and the common market are based on those four freedoms, including the movement of people, which affects so many, so many of us Italians. I would always like to remind you that the figure of the 700,000 Italians resident in the United Kingdom is not a fake news, but comes from the English authorities on the basis of VAT matches and tax codes open to Italian citizens by the English authority: they are national insurance numbers attributed to Italian citizens. So there are indeed 700,000 Italian citizens who have moved to the European Union freely, as they have done in other countries of the Union - lively - and this is the great success of the European Union, of the European design. Too often we underestimate the positive effects of being part of the European Union, including the freedom of movement of people. Well, this is bound to fail. We have been very generous, with this decree-law, in recognizing the rights of the British in Italy. We have an interest in doing so, because they are a fraction of us in the United Kingdom, that is, less than a tenth of us; we want to see the same rights recognised with reciprocity and therefore we do well to extend them. However, in the action of this decree-law (apart from the appropriateness of some arguments with the Brexit question, on which consistency is not within, because of course it is quite different), we underestimated the rights and needs of Italian citizens in the United Kingdom. I would point out to you that, in some twenty articles, there is only one that concerns the many (700,000) Italian citizens in the United Kingdom and that there is a need to increase the consular services at their disposal. On this point we have tabled a number of amendments, which we will then be able to put forward and which, however, the Government has not considered to accept (and this is serious), to specify that these resources must go to the citizens, so if you hire 50 additional consular officials for the network, these officials must go to the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom there is a consular official for every 6,000 members: 6,000 compared to 330,000, so there is one for every 12,000 employees, compared to one for every 90 in Italy, in a municipality, for the provision of the same services. If you do not write that, out of the 50 additional officials who will be hired, a substantial share hopefully must go to the United Kingdom, you are simply forgetting Italian citizens in the United Kingdom. If you do not write that some extra money in favor of the consulates must serve for the reopening of the consulate of Manchester, which covers a huge area of the country, with about 40,000 Italians converging there (consulate of Manchester that, alas, in the last legislature, the previous Governments have reopened four or five times, but that if you go to Manchester there is not), here, if you do not write it, you forget an important piece, you forget to fulfill your duty, as Government, to provide the services to this great community: the Italians resident in the United Kingdom. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u33	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u34	Mr President, I will try not to take too much time, since this is the second speech I make on the subject of Europe, after yesterday's. Maybe I'll try to be better, since we're in the holy week. However, Mr President, you cannot prevent me from believing that this Brexit decree and this matter really represent a milestone in the failure of this European unity. The emergence of one of the founding and essential countries of Europe, of one of the most important countries of our continent, I believe, cannot but be recognized as the failure of the Europe of Eurocrats, the failure of the Europe of bureaucrats, the failure of a Europe that does not belong to the peoples of Europe, but rather belongs to other consortia. Brexit means, therefore, first of all to reflect on why there was this referendum, which brought out an important European nation, and perhaps also to reflect from the perspective that no further spills occur, in other words, that Europe from 26 May onwards can strengthen itself and no longer have Brexit, Italexit, Germanexit, but can rather have a new vitality, in the light and spirit of those Treaties that gave here from Rome the "la" to a Europe that had very little to share with what unfortunately today we have before us. On the merits, Brothers of Italy - let us be clear - is in solidarity with the English people, is in solidarity with England, is in solidarity with a people who, assuming responsibility, risk and consequences, have decided to leave European unity. A people who did not accept, as we said yesterday, that Franco-German-led Europe, which did not guarantee equal treatment and did not guarantee European peoples to compete with a labour cost, a cost of money and a cost of equivalent energy, that Europe which, in essence, has only affected some interests, which favoured some countries rather than others and which has not been able to give equal opportunities to the Member States of the European Union. That is why we support and understand the English people, although we certainly do not want other nations to be forced out of this Europe. If this is not to happen, however, it is necessary - and we will forcefully repeat it and ask for it in the squares and all the Italians - to have a Europe other than the centre-left Europe, which has characterized the last years of our Community political life. Brussels, however, again with regard to Brexit, has hindered the agreement. Let us be clear: if the deal has not been concluded today, it is because someone has done everything to ensure that this does not happen, because they wanted to warn the European countries that, once they have entered Europe, they can no longer leave, perhaps as in certain more or less legal consorteries, from which, once they have entered, it is not possible to leave; those consorts that so much weight have in certain environments close to the Eurocrats and bureaucrats of Brussels. Well, if that was the message that Europe wanted to give, if that is why the deal, the consensual agreement, has not yet been found, then we are doubly in solidarity with the English people. Double Brothers of Italy will work to ensure that the agreement is not punitive, but is respectful of a people, who had good reasons to say no to this Europe. On the other hand, I would like to remind myself, first and foremost, that the English people are a people who have not been frightened by Napoleon or Hitler and certainly have not been frightened and are not afraid of Mr Juncker or his colleagues in Brussels and the European Union. Therefore, full and total solidarity with a people and a nation that will have to find a good and constructive agreement with Italy and the rest of Europe. Brexit also means giving answers to the issue of immigration and to those immigrationist policies which the United Kingdom did not accept and which, as I said amply yesterday, featured the policy of the European Union, which was centre-left. Brexit also means greater respect, from now on, for the patriots, for the territories and for national sovereignty. If we really want to build a Europe of peoples, we should start with respect for the national peoples of Europe, respect for the traditions and needs of the European territories. So we really hope that Brexit will mean as soon as possible, possibly in the expected autumn times, a non-punitive agreement - I repeat - that can respond to the emergencies that Brexit entails. Of course, I am thinking of emergencies for our Italian citizens living in the United Kingdom: there are over 300,000 people enrolled in AIRE, but there are actually more than 600,000 Italians living in the United Kingdom. We must be concerned that these fellow citizens of ours will be protected when there is no agreement on the exit of Britain. We must protect our exports, our Made in Italy, our products with protected geographical indication. We must have regard to communications, roads and railways, and our young people, who have been so protagonists of Erasmus programmes. All these aspects must be taken into account in relations with a European State that is moving away from this European Union. On the substance, we agree with the approach taken by the majority to this decree-law, which we discussed and discussed in depth in the Commission. However - here is our regret and the reason why we will not be able to support the draft law on Brexit with our vote in favour - we would have liked the majority to be more responsible and attentive to the advice and suggestions that oppositions have made constructively in the course of the Commission's work. We Senators of the Brothers of Italy Group have tabled some amendments, which have been rejected, even to extend the golden power to the Government, in essence to protect more national security. I do not go into the substance of the amendments, which we will examine and vote on in the course of the work, but I believe that if the majority had a constructive attitude and, as a fellow Member of Forza Italia said earlier, had been able to have a relationship with the opposition that was really close to the interests of the people and the nation, it would have been possible to find a cross-cutting agreement on the measure, which would certainly have honored the individual Members of Parliament and the entire Parliament. Mr President, in keeping with my ten-minute time, as I promised, I shall conclude with a final consideration. We all need to work forward from now on to ensure that the agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom is found and, therefore, should not serve the Brexit decree, but above all because the next Europe - the sovereign Europe which will change from 26 May next - makes European peoples feel proud of a European unity and not prisoners of a two-speed cage that favours some children over others. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u35	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet students and teachers of the Technical Institute of Economics "Macedonio Melloni" in Parma, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u36	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to share a reflection and a consideration with the House on the measure under consideration, which, perhaps almost obsessively, focuses on the technical aspects of a very delicate passage, almost due - indeed, I would say due - but is missing an opportunity to make a serious reflection on what it means to face and look in the eyes of the first real crisis in the construction of Europe. We are talking about a country which, at a certain point, has joined the original core of European states and has then shared the fundamental choices, so much so that it has an impact on one of the most important steps in the growth of European construction. I am referring to enlargement, at the end of the 1990s, when there were, on the one hand, those who pushed to deepen the construction of Europe (i.e. to strengthen its powers and increase the subjects in which majority decisions are taken) and, on the other hand, those who - the United Kingdom at the head - pushed to have a large area of free trade, with the Eastern European countries, which freed themselves from Soviet influence and could become attractive from the point of view of exports and financial services. The United Kingdom insisted on moving towards that model, which certainly enlarged the Union and made it more difficult to strengthen European integration. It was decided, in a compromise, that the subjects for which the majority decision was made were many less. A country like ours, which has been among the founders and has pushed for an extraordinary supranational body, unique in its kind, has made a fantasy effort to face the challenges of the future, those that are not able to face with merely national measures; for epochal challenges such as the exit from economic crises, the management of migratory flows, the fight against climate change, the fight against organised crime need broad shoulders and a wider dimension. A country like ours, which has always been in the front row of the states that have pushed for the construction of Europe, cannot face this step as if it were purely technical. It is certainly right to discuss how to secure insurance and banking institutions, payment authorities, how to strengthen the consular presence and services offered to Italians residing in the United Kingdom, but this must also be an opportunity to reflect on what this transition means for Europe. It means questioning the fundamental principles and values that have led to this being an extraordinary experiment: the issue of the integration and free movement of goods, services and persons, the fact that care can be taken in all hospitals and health facilities in European countries, the use of a connected payment system (it is one of the points that are actually addressed), the possibility of moving from one country to another by air. It is taken for granted that this will still be the case and, instead, Senator Beginini, working with the Commission, has done well to put the issue, for example, of how, in the absence of clear rules, flights with the United Kingdom, which would come out of the common space, in which there are shared rules, will be put at risk. This is true of so many other examples that we could make. It is not only an economic issue, but also a political and symbolic one: the fundamental principle is broken, for which there is a space within Europe, which is economic, but in which the same freedoms, the same rights and obligations are also guaranteed. This is a fundamental point that we must have in mind when we talk about Brexit, otherwise it becomes a purely technical question, which is certainly right, on which we must intervene to safeguard, but we must not risk losing an opportunity to reflect on what this passage means to us. I think it is different from some of my previous colleagues: this is an extremely worrying signal. In addition to this reflection, we need to understand what are the other acts to be accompanied by such a measure; in the case of no deal, in fact, the difficulties that our business system might encounter would be considerable. I would remind you that Italy' s export to the United Kingdom is worth 23 billion euros, while import is worth 11: it is one of those countries where we have the largest difference in the trade balance. What would happen the next day? Would the most-favoured-nation clause be worth it? Would the rules of the World Trade Organisation apply? What do we do to guarantee and protect the business economy? If we go to the average, we are talking about 5.7% more duties: our goods on average would cost 5.7% more. But if we analyze our export to the UK, we find that it is composed of instrumental mechanics, chemist and agro-food. On non-agricultural non-instrumental mechanical products, duties are even more than 10%, not to mention agri-food, which is above 12%. In the field of dairy products (many of the products we export), the main product, for example, has 35% of the duties. If we do not intervene from this point of view too, if we do not move within the World Trade Organisation, we risk putting into difficulty an important part of our economic and business system. This also applies to non-tariff barriers: very often we underestimate what this means, because it has now entered our way of being and moving, in our way of doing business within the European Union. Non-tariff barriers would be included, and that would mean customs; it would entail major bureaucratic obstacles for our business system; issues that we no longer posed and which we would now face again. All this also applies to Italian citizens who move for work, study, study abroad or have a short professional experience. It is clear that for many it will no longer be possible because for about 700,000 people - a huge number - that is the main landing point: for our young people who want to go abroad, and not just for work experience. Only half are registered at AIRE because many go for a short period, for a training experience as well as professional: they learn a language, and in this flexibility, in the ability to move within a single European space that guarantees these freedoms, they can do so. This will not be the case in the future because it will take much more complicated rules to be able to work, to study, to go to form, and this - if there is no important action on the part of our Government - will be difficult. I also welcome the fact that we have managed to extend part of the meshes on residence permits and on the issue of absences, because if we are more open, we also force, within a system of reciprocity, the UK partner - if he does not agree - to give this type of guarantee. I will end with an appeal: this is not only a technical measure, but it is accompanied by a debate and a serious debate because Brexit risks being a boomerang for those parties and populist subjects who speak of our own first. In the end, with these types of policy, the promises they make to the electorate at the time of the election campaign risk turning back to those who are most in difficulty and most exposed. First, our people risk meaning that they will be the first to pay for the evil choices of the populist parties. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Conzatti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u39	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 22 of 25 March 2019, which contains urgent measures to ensure security, financial stability and integrity of the markets, as well as the protection of the health and freedom of residence of Italian citizens and those of the United Kingdom, in the event of the withdrawal of the latter from the European Union. We have said this on several occasions both as a parliamentary majority and as a government: Italy will be ready if the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. We have kept our promise, and I thank the members of the Government involved and my colleagues in the Commission for their valuable work. The search for stability, protection and security of Italian interests remains for us the central objective of our political action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I should like briefly to explain the content of this measure, which introduces, as I said, urgent measures to ensure financial stability and market integrity and aims to strengthen the protection of depositors, investors and policyholders, in the light of the rapid evolution of the international environment and the situation in the United Kingdom. The Decree-Law, in particular, contains provisions governing various specific areas, such as the exercise of special powers in areas of strategic importance, measures aimed at regulating the consequences of the possible withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and, last but not least, the maintenance, with some necessary modifications, of the scheme for granting the State guarantee on the securitisation of suffering. The measure was originally made up of 24 articles, then supplemented by a number of amendments introduced during the Commission's work, which improved the text under consideration. The first part of the measure contains provisions on those special powers relating to 5G technology-based broadband electronic communications services. They are included among the activities of strategic importance, and therefore subject to the government's golden power, broadband electronic communications services based on 5G technology. An important change, which takes into account the evolution of the international context (and this is the reason for the inclusion in this decree-law) that protects the integrity and security of the networks and data passing through it, recognizing the strategic importance of this sector. The second part of the measure deals with a number of measures to ensure financial stability. As evidence of the government's foresight, which has chosen to be prepared for a no-deal hypothesis, a whole section deals exclusively with measures in the event of the UK leaving the European Union without an agreement. In particular, this section contains rules on the provision of services and activities in Italy by entities in the banking sector of the United Kingdom after the date of withdrawal, with particular regard to the transitional period. It also provides rules to ensure the operation of Italian operators of trading venues in the United Kingdom during the transitional period. It also provides for provisions for the protection of depositors and investors, establishing that the banks of the United Kingdom that on the date of withdrawal carry out activities admitted to mutual recognition in Italy are considered by right to adhere to the guarantee systems of Italian depositors. The measure also includes provisions for the protection of Italian citizens. Citizens of the United Kingdom are to be treated equally as EU citizens for the purpose of granting citizenship, if they have resided in Italy for at least four years. In addition, a number of appropriations are provided for the strengthening of consular services in the United Kingdom, as well as additional provisions for the protection of Italian citizens residing there. In the third part the measure aims to pursue the objectives of the Government on the protection and protection of the banking system, regulating the extension of the guarantee on the securitisation of suffering. When I come to the conclusion, I would like to make a political move on the Brexit affair. On 23 June 2016, through an advisory referendum, the citizens of the United Kingdom voted by majority for the exit from the European Union. We immediately witnessed a host of intellectuals who, together with the international media system, shouted at the scandal, at the ignorant and devoid of the means necessary to understand such complicated political dynamics, and criticized the legitimacy of the vote. In recent weeks, it has been said more and more often that these future European elections, in which the United Kingdom will also participate, will be a veritable second referendum. In the event of the defeat of the Conservatives, the change of mind of the UK people on the Brexit issue would be clear and clear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As proof of these arguments that want to discredit the outcome of the referendum, the UK Parliament's lack of agreement on the way out of the Union is mentioned. I want to say this loud and clear: it is not possible to give rise to such absurdities. It must be made clear, without fear of denial, that the policy's manifest inability to translate the voices and wishes of citizens into concrete acts, legitimately expressed through a referendum. It cannot become an excuse or an alibi for those who want to reverse the June 2016 vote at all costs. Democracy and popular will are sacred concepts. They are concepts that must always be defended, not only when they are convenient to someone in particular. They are the basis on which our democracies are founded and it is our duty to respect them. With this measure we show that we respect the English people and the Brexit process and we adapt our legal system to protect and guarantee the economic security of our citizens and our businesses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u40	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u41	Mr President, perhaps little has been noticed, but this decree-law is indeed a masterpiece of originality. It is Kafkian so much that it is almost self-harmful: it is written for a hypothesis that will not be realized and instead it is able to achieve very well some things, that is to say to expose and render ineffective some political assumptions on which the political action of this majority was based; I speak of the enormous annoyance towards the European Union, of the annoyance towards the competent technicians and of the annoyance towards the world of finance. What does this majority, which is very annoyed by the European Union, do in this case? He takes a command from the European Union and writes a decree-law in three acts: in the first part, as well as the Tiraboschi and Modena colleagues who preceded me, he transposes the adjustments envisaged by the European Union on the Gacs, i.e. on guarantees and the securitisation of credits; in the second part he puts a noose around the neck on the free market of 5G, even creating this coordination group that will slow down trade relations and everything that should be fluid, denying even the possibility of Parliament to be informed (so really a masterpiece); finally he writes, getting help from technicians, a measure that will never happen, because we know that the Brexit decree will apply only in the case of no deal. Now there was an extension until October, and a deal in some way will certainly be there. The second political question is that this majority, so bad with the technicians, had all the articles of the Brexit decree written by the technicians. We audited them in the Finance Committee: we audited the MEF, the Bank of Italy, CONSOB, IVASS, CONSAP. The majority, questioned by a pressing minority who wanted to be sure that from the economic and financial point of view there was everything that had to be there to prevent any kind of regulatory hole, said: "Yes, yes, of course: the technical table of the MEF has taken care of it. Fantastic, this is political news: now we all know that the majority have esteem and trust in technicians. We who, as meritocrates, of the competent technicians have always trusted and have always collaborated in a profitable way, but we ask the technicians one thing, since the interlocutors of this decree-law are them: why did not they modify Articles 3 and 4 of the decree-law? I refer here to investment services, because they may have been a little confused and there is a gap in the standard. It is only envisaged here that the investment services will be carried out by the banks. In fact, they are carried out not only by banks, but also by financial intermediaries, SGRs, OICRs, regulated market operators. If, therefore, in the meantime that writes the last amendments, they correct and transpose also this useful suggestion, perhaps from the technical point of view the decree-law will be perfect, as the technicians have of course written it. But the really incredible thing is that this majority, which has campaigned for the previous five years against banks and the finance market, has written, approved and is solidly satisfied with a decree-law that protects the basic interests - rightly from our point of view - of banks, markets, stock exchanges. But, as Mr Fantetti said earlier, she completely forgot to regulate the whole part of services, fundamental freedoms, freedom of movement, welfare, health care, air mobility, recognition of qualifications and qualifications, which have a real impact on the people, on the livability of this European Union. This is such a serious shortcoming that we deserved a written and formal reference, which we read in the 6th Commission this morning by the President of the Senate, who rightly pointed out that the decree-law, from the point of view of case law, should have been comprehensive and exhaustive in relation to the cases that might have occurred. A series of agendas were also presented just because they realized that they had completely forgotten the only important thing in Europe and, that is, the people. From this point of view, I believe that what happened was really Kafki because this majority with this decree-law did not make any progress because it will never apply. He has, however, made a huge operation of truth by saying that he is denying all the political presuppositions for which the citizens voted for them. Well, that's news. I come to a second equally important news: this decree-law is self-harmful. It is true that it was written by technicians talking about banks, markets and finance, but in fact rightly - because the technicians write it this way - it does not deal with the real interests of finance and markets. It does not deal with this because this is a decree-law of "divorce"; it is a decree-law that regulates the cases of divorce between the United Kingdom and the countries of the European Union and, in this case, Italy. From the strategic-political point of view, perhaps the only suggestion that the majority should have given is how to regulate the specifics so that operators operating in Italy can continue to do so in any case. We are not talking about anything at all: we are talking about 70 British banks, 223 payment institutions, 100 e-money issuers, 21 funds (which then provide 12% of social security benefits) and 58 insurance companies. We are talking about the cornerstones of the bilateral economic and financial relations between Italy and the United Kingdom. From this point of view, something serious had to be done, for once: instead of criticizing France for Germany, we had to go and see what they were doing. Memories of the fact that MIFID regulates cross-border relations, i.e. between EU operators but that nothing prevents States from having bilateral relations, have rightly ensured that UK operators operating in France and Germany could continue to do so by not demolishing an existing operating model. What did Italy do instead? He wrote a hypothesis of divorce; after the DEF and everything else he did, he further put in trouble consumers and businesses denying them in perspective liquidity, services and so on. She really managed to make a mess. That's a very short-sighted approach. However, we must not be alarmed because, fortunately, this decree-law does not operate and, therefore, is not particularly serious. We all know that there will be an agreement in October and that, if we vote now, the people of the United Kingdom would know how to vote well and know that they will have to vote: 'Remain'. From this experience we can draw two lessons, one of which is political: the popular referendums on technical matters that concern the stability of the State and the European Union are not made; we do not listen to the men of marketing and we do not follow on this nonsense. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The second lesson is that it has been an exercise that has, however, succeeded badly and also in dangerous terms. We, in fact, in the Committee on Finance, have seen amendments to the first signature of the President of the Budget Commission, on which an opinion had been expressed contrary to Article 81, which had been rejected or on which an invitation to withdraw had been made. Gentlemen, it was a very bad exercise, but luckily for Italy it will never apply. We in the United Kingdom wish one thing: [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the great European countries, Italy is among the least exposed to England, both in terms of trade and investment, weighing the United Kingdom on trade in goods just over 5% on Italian exports, against 7% in France and Germany, and over 10% in the Netherlands and Ireland. However, Italy, having a substantial trade surplus with the United Kingdom - over 10 billion euros per year - is constantly increasing, with Brexit it would suffer an important impact on the economy, in particular on some of the top sectors of our export, such as instrumental mechanics, textiles, chemist and agro-food. In order to ensure financial stability and market integrity, to protect investors and customers, the Decree-Law provides for a transitional regime differentiated according to the nature of the entities and the type of activity. Banks, investment firms and Italian branches of electronic money institutions established in the United Kingdom are given the opportunity to continue to operate for another eighteen months, provided that they notify the competent authorities within three working days before the date of withdrawal of their will to continue to operate (submitting their application within six months of the date of withdrawal). These banks and investment firms which are empowered to participate in State bond auctions shall not be required to submit the notification, except in order to continue to raise savings. In this case, after submitting the request for authorisation, intermediaries may continue to carry out the activity for eighteen months from the date of withdrawal. For banks operating in a way that provides services without establishment, there is a limitation to the collection of savings - permitted only for existing relationships - pending the possible granting of authorisation to operate as third country banks. The activities carried out by these entities are subject to European and national banking and financial legislation, including anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing, systems for out-of-court dispute resolution, usury, transparency and fairness in customer relations. The recognition of banks and investment firms in the United Kingdom to continue their operations also applies to the rating of government bond auctions and the qualification of a specialist in government securities and the profiles of participation in post-trading infrastructure. The possibility to continue to provide investment services - within the limits of the transitional provisions - allows to manage the potential consequences related to a no deal for the service of derivative contracts over the counter (OTC) concluded by intermediaries of the United Kingdom with Italian entities. These intermediaries, who are not allowed to assume the status of non-EU country intermediary and therefore to be able to operate in Italy with a branch or in a non-establishmental service, will have to proceed in six months to the cessation of the activities or the transfer of the relationships to authorized subjects. To protect savers, for loans granted the termination of the relationship does not alter the terms and methods of payment of interest and repayment of capital. A special regime is introduced for the management of OTC derivative contracts between Italian counterparties and investment firms in the United Kingdom that do not intend to apply for authorisation to operate in Italy or to transfer the relationships established to an Italian intermediary. With regard to contractual continuity, the European Commission has approved amendments to the Delegated Regulations on the clearing obligation and the exchange of collateral on a bilateral basis for OTC derivatives, which encourage the replacement - through the novation - of counterparties to the OTC contracts of the United Kingdom with counterparties established in the Union, providing for a 12-month window, starting from the date of Brexit. The decree-law also provides for specific provisions for the insurance sector to protect insured persons, in order to allow companies in the United Kingdom, that on the date of entry into force of the decree-law are already empowered to operate in the territory of the Republic, to continue the activity limited to the sole management of the contracts and cover in existence, until the eighteenth month following the beginning of Brexit. In order to ensure the continuity of services and prevent adverse effects on policyholders during the transitional period, companies will have to manage their contracts alone: they will not be able to conclude new contracts, nor renew existing contracts, even tacit, because they lack the requirements for access and exercise in the Italian market required by the legislation because of the changed legal framework of reference. By Decree-Law No 18 of 14 February 2016, following the decision of the European Commission, a scheme for the granting of the State guarantee on the securitisation of non-performing loans, not qualified as State aid, was authorised with the aim of enabling the opening of a competitive secondary market for the disposal of such impaired loans. This is a painful chapter for Italian banks and citizens, with the assessment given following the BRRD Directive and the bail-in that led to the bank resolutions of 21 November 2015, putting in the middle of a road 130,000 families, equal to 17.6 percent (this is the assessment). The deal of the century for vultures and other intermediaries who profit from thriving profits on the citizens' skin, who, if expropriated, cannot even help to buy back the securitisation goods, whose rate of recovery for banks is more than 45%, compared with 26 percent of the vehicle companies. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from this euro-based European cage, a people-free currency costs EUR 73,605 to every Italian and EUR 4,325 billion of non-growth over the last twenty years (we do not say this but the report of a German foundation), it is difficult to get out even for those who had retained the pound as an identity monetary sign. But, as happened with the referendum in Greece, sovereignty no longer belongs to the peoples but to the financial consortia that decide and continue to decide on the destinies of the world to which asphyxiating hegemony we try to resist by evoking Article 1 of the Constitution. Sovereignty belongs to the people, not to the oligarchies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u44	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to make a brief reply to some of the speeches. Senator Modena expressed some concerns about Chapter III on the securitisation of suffering. It is clear that Chapter III has been included in the decree-law to help credit companies to free themselves from the suffering of the so-called NPLs and to create the conditions for these structured bonds to be placed in the market. So, when the senator refers to savers, I would like to tell her that these products that will come out and that will be built by the vehicle companies are not actually products for savers but for investors, that is for a figure different from that of the saver. They are products that will be attractive for savings management companies, for OICRs, for fund managers, that is, for a series of figures that will use these products in order to help investors who want to derive from this a greater return. For the same principle, I would like to reply to Senator Conzatti when he refers to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, complaining that this article provides for the possibility, for the banks that request it to the Bank of Italy, to be able to continue to operate with the customers while the same prediction is not made with respect to the managers of funds and the OICRs. This is for a very specific reason, because the decree-law refers to retail customers. We know that customers are divided into three types: institutional customers, professional customers (private and public) and retail customers. The OICR, as well as the savings management companies, can directly place the products and have relations with the professional clientele, but not with the retail clientele: with the retail clientele, they can do it only and exclusively through the banks. Therefore, the person who has, for example, EUR 500 000 of savings can directly have relations with the OICR or the savings management company, but also outside the European Union. Therefore, in the event that the United Kingdom should leave, the UK savings management companies and the UK OICRs will still be able to continue to have relations with the Italian customers, but not with the retail customers, because the retail customers deal exclusively with the banks. Finally, I would like to make one final remark with regard to those who expressed great concern that the principle of reciprocity should not be respected in the Brexit Decree. In the meantime, the government will have to be more concerned, should the United Kingdom leave the European Union, to protect our companies with regard, for example, to exports. Therefore, protection in bilateral agreements. As far as the agreements are concerned, let us not forget that the English people are probably, by history, among the most democratic in the world. Senator Fantetti, you can comfort me on this. Let us not forget that the English people are the ones who had the Magna Charta in 1215 and it was the only people who had the ability, on June 30, 1688, to make a parliamentary revolution at a time when there were popular revolutions. IRON (FI-BP). Conclude! DI PIAZZA, rapporteur. I think we can do without these concerns. I receive an invitation to conclude from intolerant friends. I have not been particularly intolerant, but I conclude by thanking the Government to which I trust. I am convinced that you will manage your bilateral relations with the United Kingdom well if you leave the European Union without agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u46	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u47	Mr President, I do not want to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u48	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u49	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u50	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u51	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senators Urso and De Bertoldi. Senator Puglia, I invite you to hurry to your place. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Urso and De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senators Urso and De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Urso and De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senators Urso and De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mallegni and Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u52	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 3.1 and to Amendments 3,100 and 3.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u53	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u54	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u55	Mr President, I am against Amendment 4.1 and I am against Amendment 4.2 (text2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u56	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u57	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u58	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u59	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u60	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 5.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.1 to 6.5 have been withdrawn. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u61	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 8.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u63	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 8.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 10.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u66	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 10.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u67	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 13,200, 13.0,100 and 13.0,101. I call on you to withdraw Amendment 13.0.3 (text 2) as the subject is dealt with by Amendments 13.0.100 and 13.0.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u68	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u69	Amendment 13.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 13,200, tabled by the Commission, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.0.1 (text 4), 13.0.2 and 13.0.3 (text 2) have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.101, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u70	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 14.3 and against all other amendments. I am voting in favour of the G14,100, G14,101 and G14,102 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u71	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u72	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Alfieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 14.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.6 tabled by Senators Marino and Alfieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.7 tabled by Senator Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.8 tabled by Senator Alfieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.9 tabled by Senators Alfieri and Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G14.100, G14.101 and G14.102 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u73	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 16,100 and against all the other amendments. I am in favour of the G16,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u74	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u75	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.3 tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators, until the words "at least" are put to the vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 16.4 and 16.5. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G16.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 16.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u76	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 17,2000, 17.1 and 17,100 (text 2). I call on the Government to accept the agenda G17.100. I also support Amendments Nos 17,01000 and 17,0.1, which are essentially identical to Amendment No 17,0100. For Amendments Nos 17,0.2, 17,0.101 and 17,0.102, which are quite similar to each other, I am in favour of them, provided that they are reworded as follows: In order to ensure full compliance with the existing air traffic distribution system on the Milan airport system and to allow an orderly transition in the air transport sector that avoids disruptions to passenger and freight traffic, Community and United Kingdom carriers may, on a transitional basis and in any case not later than 18 months from the date of withdrawal, continue to operate point-to-point line connections through aircraft of the single corridor type, between Milan Linate airport and other airports of the United Kingdom, within the limits of the defined operational capacity of the Milan Linate airport and on condition of reciprocity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, to give his opinion on the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u77	Mr President, on the basis of the analysis made this morning in the Budget Committee on similar amendments and the technical report received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, we can say that there are no impacts on public finances. On this occasion, I would also like to say that on Amendment 14.3 (text 2), which we have previously voted on, there was the nullity of the 5th standing Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u78	I would ask the authors of the amendments for which this reformulation has been proposed if they agree with the rapporteur's proposal. LUPE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr. President, all right. COMINANCES (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u79	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u80	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 17.2000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 17.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 17,100 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G17.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 17.0.1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 17.0.1, tabled by the Commission, which is essentially identical to amendment 17.0.100, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u83	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, on the basis of the conditions given, I believe that the wording proposed by the rapporteur is the one that can make it possible to limit, at this stage, the possible damage and the possible criticalities that Brexit may entail at Linate airport and, more generally, at the Lombard airport system. I hope that in one of the next measures of the Government there will be a space in which Brexit can build, in agreement with the technicians of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, a more precise and punctual rule, which can better cover the consequences of Brexit and therefore allow, despite the United Kingdom's escape from the European Union, to ensure that from an important airport such as that of Linate you can continue to reach the destinations of the United Kingdom. This is not only until 30 March 2020, but also in the future. Therefore, I will ensure that this can also be done and I will cooperate with the majority and the government so that the best solution can be found.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u86	IRON (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to understand why only for Milan Linate airport. What about the other airports? I ask the majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferro, we are examining an amendment, there is no open discussion. IRON (FI-BP). I get it, but I want to pose a problem. We have an airport system that works, let's protect it all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u89	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this amendment is necessary because the operation of Milan Linate airport is only related to the European Union. Therefore, in the event of no deal, i.e. a non-agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, the Milan Linate airport would automatically be unable to secure connections with the United Kingdom (we are talking about a load of 1,800,000 passengers per year for Milan Linate airport, which being a city airport that connects Milan with the United Kingdom is very important). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, in addition to the proposal for a reformulation, I support the amendment on behalf of the League.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u90	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,0.200, tabled by Senators Wolf, Pergreffi, Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 17,0.2, 17,0.101 and 17,0.102 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 19 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u91	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 19.1 (text 2), 19.0.3 (correct text) and 19.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u92	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u93	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 19.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 19.2 and 19.0.1 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 19.0.3 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 19.0.4 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 20 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u94	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u95	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u96	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.2 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u97	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 21.3 (text 2), 21.4, 21.5 and 21.6 as well as the agenda for G21.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u98	Mr President, on Amendment 21.3 (text 2) the opinion is in favour, provided that the following proposal for rewording is accepted: in paragraph 1-bis, between the words "30 June" and "30 June," we insert "and transmit it to the Chambers." In point (a), after the words "transferee', we add "vehicle company' (SPV), service provider (SPV). In point (b), we write down the value of the loan before the gross book value adjustments of the loans transferred, the net value of the sale, the nominal value of the securities issued. On the remaining amendments, the opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur agree with the rewording? DI PIAZZA, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to comment on the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u99	Mr President, on Amendment 21.3 in the reformulation proposed by the representative of the Government, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u100	Amendment 21.1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 21.2 (text 2) has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G21.2. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 21.4 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 21.5 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 21.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G21.2 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u101	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 22,100 and 22,1 and the G22,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u102	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u103	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22,100, tabled by the Commission, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 22.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G22.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments Nos 22,0.1 and 22,0.2 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G22,100. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 23 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u104	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 23.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u105	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u106	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 23.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the amendments have been dealt with, I propose that we postpone the explanations of vote for one hour and ten minutes until tomorrow morning, and the final vote on the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u109	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, in fact, in view of the progress of the work, we would have some difficulties for the first morning of tomorrow and we had assumed that we would conclude them this evening. Maybe by calling everyone to stay within the time allowed for the interventions and also trying to reduce them, I would suggest to continue in the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u110	Since there is no opposition from the other Leaders, let us continue the examination of the bill. Of course, the speeches on items not on the agenda are postponed until tomorrow, hoping that everyone will respect the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u113	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we can also accept the President of the PD Group's request to shorten the timetable and conclude at an acceptable time, but not to cut off the speeches at the end of the sitting, because some of them, including that... PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. It's either one thing or the other. CIRIANI (FdI). But why do I have to stop intervening at the end of the session to do PD a favor when PD can't do us a favor? I don't understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you want to do the end-of-session surgeries, too? I'm fine with that. CIRIANI (FdI). I personally want to do so, because I would like to speak on a topical issue which is of some urgency. I don't think three minutes kill anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u114	Okay, so let's do the end-of-session speeches, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u117	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of a measure which rightly aims to protect the interests of Italians and Italian companies living in Great Britain. It is not our job to enter into the debate and decisions that another country will take; however, some reflections are necessary. I agree with what Mr Fantetti said in general debate about Britain's entry into the European Union: the reasons were completely different from those of the founding countries - Italy, Germany, Benelux, France - who wanted European integration; they wanted greater cooperation; they wanted the single market. The British, however, in 1974 had above all the idea of a platform where to put together the interests of Europeans with those of non-European countries, then to become an important bridge in the world. That was the target. We have seen this in recent decades: when it came to integrating Europe more, it was always England that was a strong brake. We need to know this story to understand why we have reached this point by a friendly country such as the United Kingdom which, as I said, has different interests than those that Italy has had up to now, for example. The measure shows how strong relations are now within the European Union; how well-established the exchanges, the presence of citizens and businesses of one State in the other. A net so dense that it has become impossible to melt unless, as is happening, you want to bring back the hands of history. 18.51 (Follow Steger). Europe is such a consolidated reality in our daily lives that we almost no longer pay attention. We are a unique space, so the only way is to improve it and not destroy it. It is not true that the European institutions have been too present, depriving the national States of their sovereignty. The problem is that, on the one hand, national states have been an obstacle to giving institutional and political uniformity to what already exists in society and in the economy; on the other, Europe has set itself a wrong agenda, pursuing issues and imposing rules that have appeared incomprehensible to its citizens. As an Autonomy Group, we call for a new Europe, stronger and truly united: a Europe that sets aside selfishness and plays a leading role in the world. A Europe that is the sum of so many minorities and where everyone is respected and protected, where they are proud of diversity and their specificity, because all the great democracies are born and grow only on this basis. Demography, even before economic data, tells us that every European state in the world would have no chance of counting anything. Only with a united Europe, only with a continent of 500 million people, can our communities aspire to have a role in relation to the great themes of the future: the theme of the environment and environmental sustainability of the Planet; that of security, which every day is more understood as cyber security; that of the new industrial revolution, with the full automation of production processes. Sovereignism, as the English story shows, does not protect a people, but produces damage to one another: a damage because when more elements have merged it is almost impossible to separate them without trauma. The story of that referendum says a lot about the caution with which the instruments of direct democracy must be used. The referendum is a clear choice, it is the impossibility of putting together a framework, it is the end of any possibility of confrontation and mediation. A referendum produces decisions that do not take account of the consequences, especially when one of the two choices is not real, but it is only the start of an unexplored path full of unknowns. In conclusion, Mr President, our hope is that Brexit will be a warning to all European citizens and also to Italian citizens. I hope that Italy will rediscover its centrality in Europe. A different, stronger and cohesive Europe cannot exist without the centrality of a founding country, the third economy of the Continent, of a decisive subject in the great passages for European unification. Italy rediscovers this role and puts itself at the centre of the project for a new Europe. It is with this hope that I will renew the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u120	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Senators of LEU and the Joint Group on the conversion of the decree-law in question, I am obliged to make a series of reflections: the decree-law is a kind of act due in case of no deal. We all hope that at 31 October we will not be told by the United Kingdom 'Trick or Trick', but many issues, such as the extension granted by the Commission, suggest that in the end Brexit may not be there without agreement. How did we get to this? We need to reflect on this, also because we are now in the election campaign for the renewal of the European Parliament and we need to think, out of the rhetoric, about what Brexit was and how it got there. Let's be clear: everything was born from the clash within the British Conservative Party in the elections at that time (see what effects propaganda temptations always have), because Cameron promised that if he had had in the coalition the absolute majority would call the referendum to confirm the United Kingdom's presence within the European Union. All in the wake of a path that until then had been a growing among the forces that strongly hoped for the exit from the European Union and a part of the Conservative Party riding this wave for electoral purposes. These were the conditions and now there is a vengeance of history because one cannot reach a vote and a reasonable outcome precisely because the clash within the Conservative Party continues. Why in a country that has always been somewhat Eurosceptic, has there been this wave of opposition to staying within the European Union? The United Kingdom has never entered the euro, has never formally joined Schengen and has certainly not been one of the founding countries of the European Union. This was done because certain European policies were strongly affecting the most fragile fabric. We all think of London, where it did not win the pro-Brexit referendum, but apart from Scotland for other reasons, the old working-class realities (think of Manchester and Liverpool) have suffered greatly from the wrong choices linked to austerity policies in Europe. For this reason the wave was ridden, in an even more horrible way, from the populist point of view (I say it in a not certainly positive sense) and produced that reaction. This is not a warning to those who want to go out, but it should be a warning to remind all of us that we absolutely need to change in Europe; to change certain policies and to ensure that social and environmental justice can really be combined in Europe, at least as far as we are concerned. Greta will be in the Senate tomorrow. It is no coincidence that yesterday in the European Parliament he called on the European Union and Parliament itself to take stronger responsibilities towards the energy transition and against climate change. The new Europe must be closely based on the values of social and environmental justice. So the warning must be to those who, lightly, have thought to use Europe in a certain way and to be able to assume an exit always for electoral purposes. But the different social problems, outside the well-being of a large financial capital such as London, have been perceived as the result of the wrong choices that Europe has made over the years: I am thinking of fiscal compact, of the lack of commitment to a strong social and environmental investment policy, even if environmental objectives have always been important. Therefore, when examining this decree-law, I would just like to recall quickly some effects on the Italian economy resulting from a hard Brexit, also remembering that for us the United Kingdom is an important market. With a no deal the trade would be regulated by the rules of the WTO and, for the very first and medium term, on the made in Italy this would have a very strong impact. But let us also consider the impact on travellers, consumers, students and residents. We have between 700,000 and 800,000 Italians within Britain, most concentrated in London. Protecting and guaranteeing the British resident in Italy and, at the same time, being prepared to protect our interests in the very strong relations with the United Kingdom is an absolutely necessary act. As for the other points of the decree-law, we could not fail to agree on the transition from the golden share to the golden power with regard to the 5G. All the more so, the rules arising from the Commission's work have made it possible for there to be a wider sharing. For all these reasons, I confirm our vote in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u123	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, this decree-law unknowingly, at least as far as perhaps the Government's expectations are concerned, contains in itself what is changing in European politics, international politics and the problem of our country. It contains it in the title, which rightly concerns urgent measures to ensure security, financial stability, market integrity, and above all to protect our citizens and our companies in Britain after the likely exit (when there is, we will see it). But it also encloses it because unknowingly the Government, thinking of using this decree-law as a vehicle, inserted the other great frontier of our country's international politics, the other great threat, which is that of Article 1, which apparently does not concern Brexit and was inserted as a vehicle to make it fast. Article 1, in fact, extends the powers of golden power also to the ultra-wide band telecommunications network, and specifically to 5G. In doing this - which we have strongly requested - he included in this decree-law, unconsciously and with ignorance, the other great frontier of Italian politics: China. That article in fact concerns China and the possibility that our Government may possibly exercise, to block, hostile activities against us for the control of the country system that, through 5G technology, anyone can achieve for various purposes such as economic or political dominance. We would have liked to improve this article and, compared to the unknowingness of the Government we have consciously presented some hypotheses of modification in order to extend the possibility of protection to the entire broadband technology: it is the faculty of protection and not an obligation of the Government. Given the possible threat to our national security, the data and, therefore, the knowledge economy, which today basically presides over and pervades every economic, political and social form (as evidenced by the cases of direct democracy and also of electoral raid), we would have wanted to extend it to all that concerns the broadband sector. At the same time - and I say this to my fellow Members - we have referred to French legislation, which is more advanced than our own legislation in this area. I regret to say this, but France has more advanced and more specific legislation in the field of national security because it is a country where the nation and the state are at the heart of the political action for which the security of the state is perhaps better guaranteed than we are. France, which is a more advanced state, has legislation in this field which allows it to protect in a specific way all the technology used by the security, protection and defence services of its nation. These are our two amending guidelines which - I do not know whether consciously or unknowingly - the majority rejected. We gave the Government and the Minister of the Interior the power to better protect national security, also with regard to the aspect of technology, precisely using French legislation, which on this is much more pregnant than ours. Unfortunately, it was not possible because perhaps this majority lacks the ability to listen and understand problems. There are, however, two issues in the field. I am referring to how to defend ourselves from China - the new Asian perspective enters Europe through Italy and Article 1 opens this huge window and this great challenge - and to Brexit, which is the second challenge we have in European and international politics. The exit of the United Kingdom from Europe creates an imbalance and, in fact, the first act after the announced exit of the United Kingdom was the Treaty of Aachen, in which a Franco-German axis was formed or, better, a German-French axis - because the centre of gravity is Berlin - not secret but public, which completely changed the nature of our European Union, which had taken its place in Italy with the Treaties of Rome on the basis of three nations which at the time had the same demographic, economic and political dimension. I am talking about France, Italy and West Germany (after German unification). Those three nations had equal dignity along with the three smaller, so-called buffer countries, namely the Benelux countries. The initial architrave of Europe was based on three equal nations. Then, the entry of Britain to some extent, helped us because it was a fourth nation on which we often leaned to prevent the European axis from being unbalanced by German reunification, that is, by the German magnet to which the French often subject themselves. For so many years - those who have made politics in the European Council know this - we have supported Britain and Britain has relied on Italy (I am thinking only of the western politics of Berlusconi, with Blair and Aznar, beyond the position of the governments and the Atlantic politics of those nations). This rebalancing, determined from the beginning by the founding Fathers (no longer three, but four countries in some way more significant that guaranteed substantially a balance to European architecture) will jump with the exit of Great Britain and in fact the Franco-German axis was formed immediately and we are no longer among the three or four, but we have disappeared from European politics, as unfortunately the cataclysms that are happening. We will talk to Prime Minister Conte tomorrow about what is emerging: we opened up to China and consequently lost Libya, because we were expelled from the European context where this new axis of Aachen was formed. The European elections in a few days will perhaps allow us to take another director, but it is absolutely necessary for Italy to do so, because it is the only country excluded from the founding countries that can actually put in motion a joint balance between the European nations, a new architrave with a new project. I think that for this reason this decree-law, unknowingly containing is the Chinese threat (i.e. the new border of the East entering Europe) that the exit from Great Britain, requires us to reflect on what the role of Italy will be in the coming years and what - if there will be - the future of our country in Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u126	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, we have come to work in this House after an important preparatory work in the Commission, which has been recognised not only by the rapporteur, but also by the representative of the Government from time to time present in the Commission. We have worked to facilitate and facilitate the emergence of the legal profile of this decree-law, ensuring that it is kept clean and protected from amendments and interferences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator D'Alfonso, if I may interrupt, but I would ask colleagues to leave the government benches free. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] D'ALFONSO (PD). We have applied ourselves to defend the integrity, homogeneity and univocity of the decree-law in view of the fact that the provision has an order value and we have gone from about 90 proposals of amendments to 50 votes referring to amendments considered appropriate from the point of view of the investigation. However, I would like to point out, Mr President, that here we also have the problem of how a ruling class gets to know the issues that are raised from time to time on the national and international agenda. A first truth emerges: it is not said that every time, in order to know, to find out and to become aware, there is a need to slam the snout on the story of what relationship to keep with Europe and of what charm, indeed of what secular attitude to keep with respect to the exit from Europe. We have now come to the conclusion that, with regard to Europe, a sovereignist, ideological attitude which does not take account of reality is bad and then leads to an awareness which, unfortunately, arises from the harshness of reality. Do you remember the months of 2016, and at the beginning of 2017, when the new concept category of the Exit was in vogue in Italy? Each territorial reality tried to configure itself with the category of the Exit. I was able to read in an important international magazine that even theorized the Vatican Exit. It was like the posture of a new way of being modern: the important thing was to get away, to deviate, to question. We have now noted that it is not true that absolute evil is Europe, but it is a question of combining a new reading of what we have to expect from Europe. Let us question the quality and quantity of European citizenship, which means reflecting what we need to do more, what it brings more than national citizenship, or the whole lot of infrastructure that needs to ensure more quality in transport, or even imagine, for example, the configuration of an international security through investigation and intelligence agencies that are truly capable of operating internationally. This decree-law secures the ability to continue to live and operate people, businesses and infrastructures; people in their different declination: when they study, when they invest, when they care, when they want to carry out a life project. For the infrastructure of the air connection, too, we have made sure that the wording of nationality does not result in difficulties of international connection with the new third state which is the European Union vis-à-vis Great Britain. We will have a new legal structure in the relationship between the United Kingdom, the Member States and Europe. This fact, which has been discussed, has led to a regulatory solution in relation to access to heaven, to the European space of heaven. Similarly, we have discussed digital infrastructure related to information that needs to be speeded up through 5G without losing security, sovereignty and national integrity. We have worked on this in relation to Article 1 by ensuring that the 5G technological and digital investment projects have, yes, the information and authorization of Palazzo Chigi, but we also agreed on the presentation, shortly, of a decree of the President of the Council to ensure that the time of investigation is set, in order to prevent investors from moving away. The lesson that comes from this decree-law is a lesson - allow me - of political morality related to those who never wanted to suffer the heterogenesis of the ends. It is extraordinary that a sovereignist, nationalist government had to find a solution with a decree-law referring precisely to the overcoming, the removal, the exit from Europe. In fact, today we have refocused the relationship between the system of national realities and Europe. This involves a lesson and makes us say that we must protect the constitutional, institutional and legal elements from the ideological debate, that it undermines reason and that it makes sure that everything is put to rest, save then being forced to find a remedy. We have worked with discernment and that is why the votes on the amendments were 90% in favour. In terms of investigation and also of merit, we have worked to ensure, for example, that the airports of the Italian system, but not only, are not blocked by Brexit because it is not right that these services suffer from an issue concerning a madness of the ruling classes. In fact, it is a question of madness when it is decided to submit to referendum without adequate information the exit from Europe for a kind of submission to the crazy ideality of sovereignism. Try to read what the international press tells about the path between illusion, disillusionment and, now, what is hatred towards that ruling class in Britain that had fertilized Brexit's hypothesis as the way out of every problem. It is on this that starts, significantly, a collection, a patrimonialization of the Italian ruling class and of the Italian national community. Let's not reduce everything to some sort of typho-series confrontation. We try to cultivate merit, deepening what happens next. If you do this, what happens next? We have learned, for example, that the ethical question is also a question of the consequences. The ethical dimension must be cultivated. If you do this, to a nation, at the moment perhaps you attract sympathy, but after what happens? Is there an advantage for citizens, for businesses, for the ability of the economic system to be competitive or do we lie down on the ground and throw the country into that uncertainty that is now in Britain? Try to estimate who, now, in Europe still tries to smile stickily compared to the scene of the exit from Europe. Instead, the game is to discuss the substance, to configure better, to specify, to seek, in short, that, from a framework of cooperation, more rights, more certainties, more functionality and not the respect for a mad ideology, which already made us measure the error. For this reason, we vote in favour of the Brexit decree converted into law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u129	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote firmly in favour of this decree-law, with which the Government has put order in a complex matter, a matter - I would like to say - unnecessarily complex. Perhaps we should also question why the untangled skein was so complicated. I would like to start from the many interesting requests made in the previous explanations of vote, to clarify that there is no paradox if a majority, which has set itself as the principle of political action the protection of the national interest, intervenes to protect the national interest on conditions of reciprocity. On the other hand, what seems a bit paradoxical to us, and from which we must learn, is probably the attitude of what I, not for pedantry, but for the minimum of clarity that is needed in a forum like this, I continue to call the European Union. So I'm talking about a unionist project and not a European project. Europe is something else: there was before us, there was before the European Union, there will be after us and there will be after the European Union, which is just one of the ways we have chosen to organize ourselves politically; perhaps not the most efficient way. I would like to recall, just to clarify the side of the crazy ideology, a nice statement of 20 May 2016, which you still find on the Reuters website, when Jean Claude Juncker expressed himself this way: "the British deserters will have no discount from the European Union." Such belligerent tones, on the part of a project that is still being seen, by the minority of this Parliament, as an irenic and responsible for the famous seventy years of peace (which in truth gave us NATO) are at least incongruous. This threatening attitude has created a rather strange situation. You see, ever since things turned out the way they were supposed to be, it was clear that the unionist project was at a crossroads and had two equally wrong roads in front of it. In fact, the unionist project could either respect the choice of British citizens, who were simply exercising a right guaranteed to them by the Treaties, and who, therefore, did not deserve to be threatened by the highest European authorities, who were the defenders of those Treaties, and who should therefore have favoured this path, or did not respect that choice. But obviously the emulation was feared: it was necessary to give an exemplary punishment, but at the time when it was spoken it proved to be a clear thing, that is, that this project was not as attractive as it was intended to be proposed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] On the other hand, moving forward with the threat (this is the path you chose) you have done even worse damage, because you have created unnecessary transition costs: we have been here to untangle a whole skein with the instrument of the decree-law to untangle which would take two years. Then there was evidence, the evidence that we are involved in a profoundly and substantially illiberal project that lives on the threat. The negotiator, Mr Barnier, has taken on the philosophy of those who put him there, Mr Selmayr, who has reached the important position he occupies through a procedure on which we should all look and on which the Ombudsman of the European Commission has expressed many doubts, but then he acted in the spirit of those who had put him there. It is a culture that does not belong to us, the culture of Strafexpedition: the culture against the United Kingdom had to be a punitive expedition, but wanting to punish the United Kingdom has already proved to be a rather serious mistake on the part of those behind this negotiator, that is, from the hegemonic power, Germany. In this strange game of chicken, as in the scene of the movie "Young Burned" instead of James Dean we have Barnier behind the wheel, but we did not give it to him; on the car there are us and the burned youth are our children, whose future is put at risk by this unjudged way of conducting political action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I would therefore like to make it clear that when we think about the relationship to be held with Europe, we must reflect on the real lesson that comes from this episode of European history; we must really take into account the fact that unfortunately the European Union once again proves to be a particularly inefficient place for the mediation of national interests, of the interests of communities that are gathered under a Constitution within a State, represented by democratically elected parliaments. European mediation is particularly inefficient and transforms a zero-sum game into a negative-sum game. That's what I'm saying. On the other side, just see what happens. We are here with the paradox of a system to which we call for prosperity and peace, which mourns the mourning of a financial market, that of London, which is thus proving not to be capable, not only of creating politics, but also of creating a market. Here we are faced with the paradox of people of liberal intonation mourning a monopoly, that of the London stock market; therefore the aggression by Europe (especially Germany) to the United Kingdom is something that reveals the profound irrationality (for which we naturally love our German brothers, but which has often characterized them), their profound idealism and their total absence of pragmatism. Let us not forget that the United Kingdom is a customer of Germany and has never seen a trader in the world who kicked his butt or threatened his client. This is the spectacle that our German brothers give us, with which to ally sometimes in our history, from time to time, has proved to be a mistake. Then, in the face of so much irrationality and inability to manage for the good of the European community a process that the Treaties did, however, regulate and foresee, it is clear that there can only be a look of deep critical attention to the project. To foresee an irrevocable project, whose objective is not defined, because this Union is increasingly narrower but to get to what is really not known, it was a gesture of great hybridism and with great humility we should all think seriously and serenely about how to manage the situation in which we came to find ourselves. In this particular contingency the Italian Government has dealt with with with a sense of responsibility the potential damages that could come from a contrasting and punitive attitude towards the United Kingdom and has been able to do a job that has managed to keep the country safe, as the oppositions have recognized us, for which we are grateful, also reciprocating the recognition for their constructive contribution. However, it is clear that, if there is a threat as it may be about to happen, that is, the exit of a country from the European Union, the threat is not so much in the choice of who has done it, but in the attitude of those who, on the other hand, did not accompany it, but managed it in a spirit of opposition, in order to give an exemplary punishment that, as a political method, we believed and hoped belonged to epochs that we thought we had left behind. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u132	SCIASCIA (FI-BP). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration today provides for provisions which should be adopted in the event of the Kingdom of Great Britain leaving the European Union, without any agreement being reached (so-called no deal). A short premise: the British Government has requested and obtained more referrals for its decision. A few days ago, the Heads of State of the European Union proposed a further extension of the decision, even to 31 October in the near future, but, in my opinion, with major problems for the functioning of the European institutions, given also the conjunction of Parliament's elections for the period from 23 to 26 May. In this connection, I recall that Mrs May said on 8 April that, in the event of a favourable vote in favour of her Parliament when we leave with agreement, this event will take place on 22 May and therefore the United Kingdom will not participate in the European elections. To those who write it seems that this continuous postponement is posing a real farce: those who say "we stay," those who say "we go out," those who fear problems of public order, those who even make catastrophic predictions of decisions for autonomy by Northern Ireland. I mean, real chaos. It should also be borne in mind that, as reported days ago in one of the most important national newspapers, one of the principal advisors of the Kingdom of Great Britain has said that from the economic point of view, his country, which goes out without agreement, would suffer an increase of at least 15% for food and 8% for textiles; a real damage to the consumption of the middle-low class. In addition, the United Kingdom will have to pay the European Union as much as EUR 40 billion, largely in the period from 2019 to 2025. I will not go into the substance of the measure, consisting of 24 articles, already clearly illustrated by those who preceded me. I just remember that the provisions, which I hope will never enter into force, tend to protect the banking institutions and assimilated of both nations, always obviously in the case of withdrawal, the provision of services in Italy and in Great Britain by both Italian and English subjects, the protection, also tax, of the citizens of the two nations and the rules for their stay in the two nations even in the case of subjects not citizens, but long-residence. Finally, the replacement of the capital paid by Britain in the European Investment Bank - which is of considerable importance - is envisaged, by accepting this pro rata burden to the Member States. Another negative element is what, always in non-deal hypothesis, will involve, for both citizens and entrepreneurs, a series of initiatives not always simple and pleasant, having to bring perhaps more and more times to their embassies or consular offices, in order to regularize their stay or activity in their respective countries. A further negative effect will, almost certainly, be felt for the national economy, as duties and other bureaucratic leaps will be imposed on imports into the United Kingdom, with a not positive impact on our exports to Great Britain, which, moreover, according to the EU estimates confirmed by Istat, are not of particular importance, being only 5% of the total. On the basis of all these arguments, confirming the wish for an exit from the United Kingdom with a special agreement, I declare the vote in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u135	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, the order of speech in explanation of vote allows me to use the in-depth and inspired comments that have been made so far, to try, if possible, a summary of today's debate, so as to leave the Chamber this evening perhaps with a bit clearer ideas. As all my colleagues have said, we are at a difficult time in Europe's history, because this is certainly the Europe of discontent, that is, Europe which is not content with itself and its political identity. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on colleagues to turn down the volume. LICHERI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, this is a Europe in which many or few people, by vocation or, if you will allow me, by electoral calculation, say they are discontented, because they do not feel content and represented within this Europe. These are subjects which, in some way, express a sort of rebellion against this Europe, but I wonder how genuine and spontaneous this is and how much the next electoral round affects, in speaking badly of that Europe, to which we have also contributed, both at the stage of its conception and at the stage of its implementation. Certainly the title of this measure is not optimistic, because it speaks of a Europe of the future or the future of a Europe in which the United Kingdom will no longer exist. And so it is as if, again this time, a curse has fallen on us, because we have a political problem, namely that a European people has chosen to leave a European political union. Instead, we have to deal with economic issues. It is the economy that is in step with politics; it is politics that sometimes, as in this case, cannot even manage economic events. That is why we are here with this measure. I am not going to dwell on the technical content of the decree-law in question, because they have already been widely debated and - however - this is a necessary and appropriate measure to secure the subjective rights and legitimate interests of our citizens, consumers and companies. It is with pride that I claim that Italy has arrived among the first countries to legally defend the interests of its citizens in front of the Brexit event. The question I'm going to ask is another one. Has the Europe that remains sufficiently reflected on the reasons why the English people decided as they did? Listening to the debate that took place in Italy, I heard that the decision of the British was of tummy, humoral, impetuous and ignorant, as if the English people were suddenly caught by a collective madness. In fact, those who have closely observed the English debate know that the British have weighed that vote and that decision and that two currents of thought have been democratically confronted. In fact, what has happened, gentlemen, is that we have witnessed the culmination of a process of mistrust that has affected a part of European citizenship to the point that it has no longer been able to see a prospect of growth. What has happened in England is a kind of condition of malaise that has affected all social classes - from working class to middle class - in a cross-cutting way, from wealthy to poor. It would be a very serious mistake to regard the British vote as the result of a written decision. In any case, those who have decided to remain within this Europe, which Europe do they want? What Europe do you want? Did you ask yourself that question? Do you want Aachen-style Europe? Vertical Europe? A top-down Europe? Europe made up of axes? Intergovernmental Europe? What does the German Minister expect to be part of the French Council of Ministers on a regular basis? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The one who says that the French Minister can be a member of the German Council of Ministers? Is this Europe you want? Or do you want the Europe of Visegrád, a distant, cold, insensitive and incommunicable model? That kind of Europe that says, "I'm fine at home, so I don't want anyone else?" This is the second Europe that is expected. Colleagues, these are important issues, on which we must reason because here we measure Euro-optimism or Euro-scepticism and the comparison between the diversity of legal culture. In fact, here we measure whether there is actually harmony or disharmony between values, laws and institutions. I am not going to go back to the case of international treaties, but can we all agree that there has been a deviant practice in the application of the Treaties? I am thinking of the fiscal compact, which we have incorporated in Article 81 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which imposes the obligation to balance the budget, but which at the same time - but you have all forgotten it - safeguards the hypothesis of parliamentary power, which in any case remains an expression of the will of the people. But this second part of the fiscal compact we have completely forgotten. In conclusion, in Aachen and Visegrád there is only one model that can stand up to it: it is the unitary Community model of Rome. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] Of that model we were the origin, the home, the vital soul. It is that model that we, in the coming months, will have to defend before the 27 countries that remain and before the whole world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For these reasons, Mr President, I declare, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, with the bitterness of those who are greeting a friend, our vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u136	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: In the case of withdrawal from the European Union, conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 22 of 25 March 2019 introducing urgent measures to ensure the security, financial stability and integrity of the markets, as well as the protection of the health and freedom of residence of Italian citizens and those of the United Kingdom. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u137	The Presidency informs that the Assembly will return to meet tomorrow, at 3 p.m., for the discussion of the 2019 Economy and Finance Document. As has already been agreed in the short term between the parliamentary groups, explanations of vote will take place at 7 p.m., with direct television transmission. The President of the Council of Ministers will follow the latest developments in Libya.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u140	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I take the floor, I cannot hide my emotion, as well as my sense of frustration, as far as the provincial road that connects the well-known Corleone with Partinico and San Cipirello, in which yet another car accident took place. This time the victim of the tragic impact is James Randazzo, fifty-seven years old. My deepest condolences to the family. A sense of frustration as an institutional figure, but at the same time a sense of frustration as a Sicilian. Believe me, it is not easy to witness the death of members of one's own community and neighboring municipalities in the way - now known among my fellow citizens - of death, following the long and perverse game of remissing responsibility between regions and provincial bodies, distracted in ensuring the simple maintenance of provincial roads, which are trazzere, death traps, of course even with negative results in terms of economy on neighbouring municipalities. Our government has committed itself, has inserted a specific norm that previews a commissioner that will have substitute powers in order to accelerate the procedures, in order to be able to skip the bureaucratic pastries, that hold blocked some hundreds of million euros destined for plans for the disastrous Sicilian road. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u143	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read a few passages from a dramatic letter that Riccardo Morpurgo, a sixty-four-year-old engineer, builder of Senigallia, wrote to say goodbye to his loved ones. He killed himself. He is an entrepreneur who took his own life and who perhaps could have had a little more attention from the political world and the journalistic world in general, also because in a sense he wrote it himself, where the sense of his dramatic gesture could be perceived as a scream. Some passages, however, I want to read them to you: I have humiliated myself as long as I never believed I had to, power and know how to do, still designed, still related, still humiliated, I even mortgaged the future of my family and my future, and I still unnecessarily proposed what would positively resolve, only wanted to. And again: "I make the bomb explode loudly, confident that finally my scream will be received, desperate." That is why I would like to read your letter in this House. It continues: "Many are the mistakes I have made in my life (...) but I have never failed to dictate correctness and honesty. So I leave with the clean face of the person for good. (...) With the tragic, and certainly senseless, gesture, I hope to finally be able to awaken numb consciences and blinded souls: I address therefore to those responsible, absolutely irresponsible, of credit institutions, but also to public administrators and to those who, by abusing his infamous power, arrogant the right to have fun playing with the necessity, anxieties, emotions of neighbor, without capacity (FORSE) that his fun can be tragically received by those who suffer it, and still to those who suffer this unjust situation wrapped in their deafening apathy and indifference or, worse, to those who aggravate it with their cynical and supposed covetousness. It was important that I bring the meaning of this dramatic letter so that we can all reflect on what the media are making disappear from their pages but that we absolutely cannot make it disappear. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u146	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, in Trieste, in the margins of the screening of the film "Red land" dedicated to the victims of the foibe, a gentleman distributed leaflets of a very vulgar and trivial character, with which he invited the children not to participate in the screening, defining the film so that it cannot be referred here. The problem, President, is that that was not just any gentleman, but the teacher of those boys: the professor of the nautical institute of Trieste invited to the screening of the film. I would like to say this in a very frank way, Mr President, and I take responsibility for it: that professor is unworthy of being a professor of Italian school. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Fantetti]] It is not a question of freedom of education or freedom of thought, but of understanding whether a person is adequate or not to play the role of educator and this person obviously is not. Two months ago in Basovizza, in front of the foiba that gathers thousands and thousands of Italian citizens of every political faith, infoibati only because Italians, all the political forces present (and were present all the political forces) have said "never more dead of series A and series B", "never more negationism", "never more justification for the tragedy of the eastern border." But there is someone who does not give up and does not give up in front of anything, not even the pain, the blood, the tears of the dead, their relatives and their descendants. She does not even stop in front of the tragedy of a poor 20-year-old girl, Norma Cossetto, who was kidnapped, tortured, raped and finally thrown alive into the foiba. In front of these people I wonder: what would have happened if such a leaflet had been distributed in the margins of the screening of a film dedicated to the Shoah or the victims of terrorism? Mr President, time is up. I just want to say that this gentleman, who I don't even want to quote because I would give him too much importance, had to choose whether to be a professor and therefore an educator, or become a miserable propagandist of hatred. I believe that he has chosen his own path and I therefore call on Minister Bonisoli to kick him out of the Italian school. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Fantetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u149	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there was a disagreement between me and the Presidency this afternoon, and I was unable to speak. I do this now with sincere and heartfelt words, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, to express to the great family of Radio Radicale our sorrow and our closeness for the loss of Massimo Bordin. Many of us in this House, too, have been able to follow parliamentary activity (and not only) through his voice in recent decades. Massimo has accompanied us for years with his speeches on newspapers and in voice, his passionate Sunday conversations with Marco Pannella, his unmistakable press review. Impeccable in the daily panorama, polemic, wisely ironic, but always characterized by an original point of view, sometimes expressed with a necessary comment, a whimsical nail, a joke or one of those characteristic and unmistakable coughs, more or less suffered, which were almost always worth more than a long editorial. We will miss this voice, which has now become the flag of the radical and panelling universe, voice and sharp pen even with the daily column that every day fed on the printed paper, not always acceptable even by those who speak to you, but yet precious and rich element for our pluralism of information, alas it is still too poor, inadequate compared to the expectations of citizens. We therefore join in the words of Senator Emma Bonino with this last memory and homage to the journalist and colleague Massimo Bordin, so that the precious memory and hope that the earth will be eternally light to him remains in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u150	Thank you, Senator Di Nicola. The Presidency and the whole House join in mourning. [[Senator Rampi exhibits a sign with the inscription "Salvate Radio Radicale." Comments from the M5S Group]] Senator Rampi, don't put the presidency in trouble, otherwise I have to ask the assistants to withdraw the cartel immediately. We withdraw the sign, albeit small.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u153	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I want to start with these words: With much sadness and recrimination I have to withdraw my candidacy for the mayor of the Municipality of Agnadello due to heavy threats repeated in recent weeks to me and my family. So begins the letter that is forcing a candidate mayor of the League in the Province of Cremona to review his candidacy a few days after the end of the electoral term. In the face of his words, it is not only the candidacy of a man who wanted to make himself available to his country. In the face of his words, the democracy of our country fails. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It leaves room for hatred, fear, ignorance of those who will never distance themselves from facts of this kind, of those who enjoy defining the League dispenser of hatred. Colleagues, it's time to end these useless stories. Tell me once, just once, that someone has been harmed on behalf of and name of the League! There has never been any such fact in all these years of politics. It never happened! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If anything, our headquarters were attacked: mine, in Cremona, was even hit with paper bombs in the previous weeks; they painted the walls; they attacked the gazebos. And then we're hate dispensers? We're the ones who can't put a mayor candidate in a small municipality of 3,800 inhabitants. Is this the 2019 democracy of Italy? I'm ashamed of these things. To keep going on such things, what happened does not happen only to one of us in the League, but to anyone who can run for mayor or city councilman today. I hope that the police and the forces of order will intervene and immediately find the person responsible and that there will be a strong, heavy condemnation of those who are guilty of such acts. Then we find ourselves here and make laws when the facts have happened and when maybe serious things have happened, I would be very sorry and I think of all of you as well. So I hope that the police will take their course, that they will quickly close the story and that this person will be put where he belongs: in jail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-109.ana.u155	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 18 April, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.03 p.m.
