ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.33 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to remind the House of Filippo Penati, a political leader who has left us. He died yesterday. He was mayor of Sesto San Giovanni, the Stalingrad of Italy. He was President of the Province, an important national leader of the Democratic Party. Filippo Penati was a man of old and at the same time a modern person. He knew when to stay serious and when to laugh. He was a upright man and was one of the not rare cases, certainly not the only one, of condemnation followed by absolution, a case, in some way, of persecution for crimes not committed. He died of cancer and doctors recognized that his illness was the result and consequence of his judicial affairs. I remember it with great pain, with great pain and also with nostalgia, but today I think that Filippo Penati would have liked to be remembered not only with considerations of personal character, human and friendship, but also with political considerations. I must tell you - and some of you know this for the personal relations that exist between all of us - that I have great contempt for those who take advantage of their political, parliamentary or other position of those who take advantage of it to enrich themselves personally. I despise bribes, I despise pressures, I despise collusions. But I must also tell you that I also hate those who, without proof and without waiting for condemnation, are hurling at politicians and even more those who take the lead in hurling at politics in general. It is our national vice, a vice from which the political world is not immune: politics is not immune, information is not immune, a large part of public opinion is not immune and, unfortunately, not even some magistrates are immune. And it is also for this national tara that we know today, to confirm the doctors who took care of him, that Filippo Penati died. I believe that politics is the noblest of all forms of human commitment, the noblest of cultural commitment, social commitment, the noblest of all our forms of commitment. Yesterday, I want to say it with great modesty and also with friendship, I was struck to see the cut of the MPs celebrated with a banner full of images of armchairs, the armchairs that have been cut. I say this to all of us: parliamentarians are not chairs, you are not chairs, we are not chairs. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] To describe Parliament in this way leads to contempt for politics, leads to a condemnation of politicians and politics before judgment. Today I believe that, remembering Penati, we must also remember the honour of politicians. It is precisely in honour of Filippo Penati that we vindicate the goodness of politics as such. There are rotten apples, they are everywhere, but they cannot and must not be used to kill either Parliament, or politics, or individual politicians. If the death of Filippo Penati can serve to restore honour to politics, I think that he, from where he is looking at us at this moment, will be very, but very happy. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP, L-SP-Psd'Az, Aut (SVP-PATT,UV) and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u9	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Filippo Penati was a politician, a true politician. Mr Zanda recalled that he was twice mayor of Sesto San Giovanni. He grew up in what was considered the Stalingrad of Italy, therefore with the culture of the old communist party. However, he managed to win in the Municipality of Sesto San Giovanni and also in the Province of Milan. He returns to the center-left only in those four years and it is he who drags the Democratic Party and not vice versa, as normally happens. He is in fact loved by the people: he is the first political man on the left to understand the importance of security in the cities. You will remember the speeches and contrasts of then on the presence of the army in the cities, on the so-called Red Brigades and so on. He launched the idea of a true left to defend the citizens, compared to a situation of degradation that was being created in large cities. He wins alone and, for the same reason, is appreciated by citizens for the aspect that Senator Zanda recalled, but that was not a certification from doctors: as has been said, it was simply, once again, to make man very earthly, in the sense that he connects judicial events to his personal affair (like all of us, earthly, we do many times to justify diseases of friends and relatives). Moreover, with reference to judicial events, I would like to remind you that he has been acquitted, except in the case of a crime that has fallen into prescription, but this does not mean anything: unlike the judicial culture that today governs our country, we must never forget that, sometimes, the sentence of condemnation is only the result of a procedural reality, which is sometimes true and sometimes not. Finally, Senator Zanda, remembering Penati, I would like to reflect on what is happening today with reference to constitutional values. You have correctly reminded us that we are not armchairs, nor people who are here just to obey the will of a particular party or party secretary. I'm thinking about what we've seen the last few days. Even with regard to issues of constitutional importance, we are now forgetting to fight on issues for which our ancestors have given their lives by contenting themselves to follow the party's instructions or, even, taking into account the fact that, perhaps, the majority of citizens are opposed to something, without realizing what is useful and correct for effective democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u12	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too join the memory of Filippo Penati, having personally known him and having collaborated with him during the years when he was president of the Province of Milan. As has already been said, Filippo Penati was a figure of great prestige, not only for having made the mayor for two mandates to Sesto San Giovanni, the president of the Province and then the regional councilor, but I believe because he was recognized a role and a weight in national politics, that he had begun to exercise and that then was interrupted for the judicial events that had involved him; judicial events that - it is well to remember - have seen him completely acquitted from the criminal point of view. Filippo Penati was the embodiment of Milanese reformism and to some extent also of the best national reformism, a political figure who engages in a concrete way for the results. He was an authoritative figure: when he spoke in the classrooms where he was elected representative, he was silent, even when he was in opposition, as when he lost the challenge to the Province for the second term or after the regional elections, where he was candidate president and was defeated by Formigoni. His commitment was concrete, with precise results related to specific themes: I think of infrastructure, I think of the great contribution he has been able to make to Expo, through an important and qualified staff of collaboration with Mayor Moratti and President Formigoni, to succeed in conquering in Milan the title of Expo city for 2015; I think of the commitment to the environment, with the metropolitan forest. Surely he was forerunner of a series of themes that then led the great Milan to be what it is today and is recognized. He was a true leader, a leader recognized by people, a leader who, in his best season, was able to transmit something new and important to voters and citizens. It was the example of the mayor who knows how to give concrete answers to the citizens and it is no coincidence that, when he was president of the Province of Milan, he was able to build a team of collaborators, councillors and even advisors made mainly of directors and mayors who had concluded the first great season of direct election of the first citizens occurred in the 1990s. His judicial affair, as Senator Zanda has already well remembered, has been painful and has touched him physically in his health, then leading him to death. I believe that this aspect must all make us think (politics, media and also part of justice) about how we mean the role of political representation and how we have represented in recent years those who make this great effort to put themselves at the service of the citizens. Too often it is easy to pull mud at figures that are perceived as political opponents. What happened to Filippo Penati is very serious for how he was invested and how he had to give up his political role. And if we see how after many years (too many) it has come out clean, we have to ask ourselves the question of how justice can give answers to the issues it poses, with too long times that do not allow people to fully defend themselves. Filippo Penati came out clean from the criminal point of view; he was still fighting his battle with respect to accounting justice, but he did not have the time to close his accounts with justice and to prove even in that place that he was a correct administrator. I hope that his death will reflect the policy for the decisions he must take, because we need to give justice first of all a more rapid and respectful path to the dignity of people. I hope that his death, his example, his political path can awaken in politics and in all of us the call for a more concrete commitment to give answers to those issues and to those problems that his life has not been enough to heal. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, PD and Misto-Leu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u15	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I too would like to join in the words of my previous colleagues, thanking Senator Zanda for the sensitivity he has shown. Penati for me was a friend, a friend of a very important political history of the left, from the Communist Party to that expression of the Communist Party that was able to deploy a quality in the government of the reformism of the left, which is still, in my opinion, an important reference. He also represented the ability - said the senator who preceded me - to hold together the consensus, the relationship with the citizens and the responsibility of government, the decision, which is never only a problem of rules and the organisation of governance of the institutions, but is first of all the ability to have in mind a social project, a political project, and to know how to build it by dealing with reality, having a relationship with the principle of reality. Even before the judicial question, the experience we remember of Penati is an important lesson. It is true, Senator Zanda, that for me too politics is the highest exercise of people's commitment. It is also true that politics, from this point of view, needs a qualitative leap, a real qualitative leap. My closeness to Penati is also linked to his judicial affair. I do not know whether politics in general and its various expressions will ever take advantage of this experience; but when politics exchanges the merit of different positions and projects and translates it into a judicial attitude against a person, politics loses itself. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and IV-PSI Groups and Senator Caliendo]] That is the fundamental problem. So my memory is the commitment to keep in mind and to live this experience that Penati leaves not to those who thought like him, but to all of us. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP, PD and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u18	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I think it is appropriate that alongside the voice of the Government - yesterday President Conte spoke - there should also be that of Parliament, of the Assemblies, and in particular of the Senate, on the very delicate issue and that it is taking on extremely worrying aspects at the border between Turkey and Syria. The Turkish decision to launch targeted raids on Kurdish border cities, from the symbolic city of Kobane to Sari Kani and, more generally, on Rojava, an experiment of autonomy of Kurdish realities, often massacred in the past by different regimes, cannot fail to arouse a strong reaction of Western public opinion and therefore of their representatives within Parliament. The realpolitik has a limit and that limit is the strong attention so that no violence is repeated especially on the civil communities of the area. It is a sensitive and strategic area not only and not so much for the management of migratory flows. We, as Western democratic communities, are obsessed with that issue, but there is not only that; there is the stability of that area, where tensions are always on the agenda. The withdrawal of the United States has led to an acceleration of some dynamics. Turkey, together with the Syrian anti-al-Assad Liberation Army, Sunni - I remember that al-Assad is allied with the Shiites - is carrying out operations that cannot but concern Europe for the stability of that area, but above all in the fight against Islamic terrorism. The Kurds have done extraordinary work in the fight against international terrorism. Europe and the United States cannot abandon them. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Group of the European People's ……]] [[Misto-LEU. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u19	I believe that this matter deserves a little more attention and therefore silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u20	Mr Alfieri (PD). The Kurds at this time guarantee the safety of the Al Hol prison centre, where tens of thousands of members of the ISIS are held, some of which are foreign fighters, with the risk that they will return to Europe and, on the other hand, tens of thousands of family members. Evidently if the popular protection units (YPGs) will have to move towards the border to face this new offensive that risks becoming of land, they will move the attention towards the border, abandoning the areas where they have effectively contained the advance of the ISIS and where today they are closed people who have been part of terrorist actions. We therefore need strong action by Italy not only in NATO but also at European level. It is clear that a common European position can help in NATO. I call on the Presidency and the Government to consider it useful to give Parliament a ruling because it is clear that there is a country in Europe at the moment that prevents the formation of a common position. That country is Hungary and therefore, both for its relations with the leader of the League, but also with the leader of Forza Italia, being within the European People's Party, a strong, unequivocal and bipartisan pronunciation of the Assembly could be useful for Europe to speak with one voice. At this moment, the fact that Europe does not speak with one voice is due to Hungary. I think that we cannot be obsessed with immigration alone; the issues of stability, security on our continent and the fight against terrorism also call for a united response from the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u23	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is a particularly difficult time for Europe. I imagine it is also for Italy, but it is especially for the northern border of Syria and, in particular, for the Kurdish people, to whom we must acknowledge that we have made a fundamental contribution, I would say almost decisive, to the fight against Islamic terrorism, against ISIS, against the so-called Islamic State. Seeing this abandoned people today strikes us strongly. It is indeed a moment of pain for us; not only for Forza Italia, but - I hope I can say - for the whole Senate of the Republic. We first witnessed bombings, air raids on the city of Ras al-Ayn. We then witnessed the deployment of 5,000 Turkish troops and troops on the North-East border of Syria and from there we could already have imagined what could have happened. It took a moment of ambiguity, a statement perhaps not happy by the President of the United States, which, however - let me say this - immediately corrected the shot, to kick off this operation by Erdogan, which was announced with a simple tweet. The situation is also of great danger for Italy, for what my colleague Alfieri has just said: if about 10,000 ISIS fighters and 2,000 foreign fighters were to be released, kept safe inside the prisons by the Kurds, it would create a problem not only for Europe, but also primarily for Italy. We obviously don't like Erdogan's war. We have heard Putin's words of condemnation of Erdogan himself, and Trump has also pointed out that the invasion is not a good idea. We can say with great seriousness that the whole Western world and all the foreign powers are oriented in the direction of preventing the conflict from getting worse. Erdogan justified this by pointing out that it would be a corridor of 30 kilometres, in which basically maintain peace in order to avoid the infiltration of terrorists. We are therefore in a situation of real danger. What can we do besides what Juncker said? Juncker highlighted the opportunity to prevent Europe from financing that corridor, but I do not think so. There is already an initiative - and we are asking Italy to join France, Great Britain, Poland, Germany and Belgium - to request urgent consultations with the UN Security Council, which will meet tomorrow to address this very sensitive issue. The problem - I repeat - is really serious, but it is especially serious for Italy at the moment. I think we should find unity in this House. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that Europe, unfortunately, despite being highlighted in every way, even in the recent election campaign for the European elections, does not have an armed force. We do not have a unit of the European armed forces. That is a problem. Latin wisdom used to say " si vis pacem," para bellum ". We must not prepare for war because we are war-makers, but we must be prepared in particular situations such as today to prevent certain isolated initiatives of certain characters from compromising the balance and stability of peace in a certain area and, consequently, the balance and stability of peace in the world. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Floridia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u26	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, we are also very concerned about Turkey's attack in northern Syria. By the way, Turkey is the third country in the Italian arms export. The Syrian Kurds in Rojava fought in the front line against the Islamic State and they really sacrificed so much. Without them the Islamic State would not have been defeated. So, we can't afford to leave them alone. That would be very unfair. Mr President, Turkey is also a member of NATO and it would be desirable for it to have an extraordinary meeting to stop this aggression which has already caused several civilian victims. Our Foreign Minister, Luigi Di Maio, has been at work for the first few hours and we trust his diplomatic skills. Syria is a country that has suffered greatly. By the way, we should reconnect diplomatic relations with this country. The foreign powers in Syria have made meat for the slaughter of the Syrian people: there are 500,000 Syrian dead, millions refugees and migrants forced to flee because of the war. With regard to migration, I would like to remind you that the European Union has paid Turkey some EUR 6 billion to stop migratory flows to Europe, but this new war will necessarily create more. Mr President, we claim the principles of non-interference and of course the principle of repudiation of war, as provided for in Article 11 of our Constitutional Charter. We call for NATO, the UN and Europe to intervene pragmatically to stop this illegal occupation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, what is happening with the Turkish attack is very serious. I would like to remind everyone not only that we must be in the front row in condemning Turkey's attack, but also that Kurdish fighters, including women, have been decisive in defeating ISIS. Even today they are at the forefront where, among other things, 2,000 prisoners belonging to ISIS are held. But Turkey's attack comes from afar. We cannot forget the continuous and constant persecution of the Kurds. What is happening is further creating problems of destabilisation in Syria. This is a serious situation, and that is why not only the UN Security Council should intervene, but also NATO. The position taken so far, which simply tends to contain Turkey's intervention, is not only not enough, but almost also welcomes it. Look at the fact that Turkey is a further blackmail to Europe, because they think that Europe's position to stop the attack on the Kurds would be another way of saying that they open borders, since we have paid the Turks to contain the flow of migrants in the Balkans. That is why - and Senator Alfieri is right - we need an absolutely unequivocal position from Parliament and Europe, in order to ensure that there is a condemnation - and not subalternal assumptions - clear not only because it is the interest of that area not to create further problems of destabilisation, but also because we must take a linear position for once. I repeat again that the Kurds have been a decisive force to stop ISIS. And Europe would once again commit a veritable act of cowardice if it could not stop with all its forces, those in the field and those in politics, the shameful attack put in place. That of Turkey, I believe, is now an issue that we must tackle to the very end, and not only because of the democratic problems in that country but also because of the continuing destabilizing role it plays in that area and because of genuine blackmail towards Europe. Therefore, the voice of Europe must be lifted, but the voice of our country must also be lifted with great force, which is absolutely crucial for the balance throughout the Mediterranean area. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU Group and the Senators Ginetti and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u32	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, the media tell us about victims among civilians, which are already the result of the invasion of Turkish troops. Therefore, I too would like to add to what previous speakers have said about the need for our Parliament to adopt a clear, clear and united position, and urge the Italian Government to do the same with regard to both the European Union and NATO, so that the UN can be involved in achieving a ceasefire. The situation of great instability, in fact, risks creating further destabilisation, in a very fragile area, which sees the possible explosion of further conflicts: it is not by chance that new military movements are already being observed, even by Iran, on the border with Turkey. Therefore, there is the danger of a renewed explosion of the Syrian conflict, which has already seen the civilian population in great suffering for eight years. I would also like to reiterate that there is a real risk of a reorganization of the Daesh, i.e. ISIS. Just a moment ago, the former mayor of Kobane, the Kurdish city that first defeated ISIS, argued that its possible reorganization is very concrete, also in the light of the fact that, among the 12,000 militiamen of ISIS currently in custody - and often under the control of those Kurds who are now at risk of being hit and exterminated - new foreign fighters can be formed, thus causing a very serious danger and bribe to Europe itself. Then there is the great danger that a real humanitarian tragedy will be created, with the massive arrival of new refugees. Therefore, it is all the more necessary for the Government to take all the necessary diplomatic steps, aimed at averting a re-emergence of the current acts and proposing an immediate cease-fire. It is also very necessary for Europe to pursue a single foreign and defence policy. All the steps that can be taken, politically, in this sense, are to be reiterated and it is useful that there has been a change in the government structure, so that we can carry on, also on this front, concrete and positive steps compared to conflicts such as the one in question, which are very worrying also for our country. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u35	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to say to my colleagues that they have just spoken that, since they are now the majority of them, it is useless for them to speak in this House as a reminder: you must resolve the problems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u36	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 257 and 702. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u37	Mr President, today we are able to bring to the attention of this House the draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Lighthouse Framework Convention after a long process in which we have tried to understand the concerns raised by some groups and in particular by the League, with an opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission. This should reassure those who, in some way, have raised concerns that a framework convention of this kind, drawn up within the Council of Europe, could, in a certain sense, contain profiles that would compress our country's sovereignty over its immense cultural, architectural and historical heritage. We therefore come to propose the approval of the ratification and implementation of the Framework Convention by unifying two texts. And I particularly thank my fellow Senators Marcucci and Montevecchi for pushing for the approval of this innovative instrument. Unfortunately, the Convention was born in a context of war. In the mid-1990s, the European Continent was shaken by a war that bloodied the Balkans and on that occasion the Ministers of Culture of the different European countries who came to the Council of Europe raised a question: can the historical, artistic and cultural heritage of our countries also be an element that, through mutual knowledge, can help the non-occurrence of war events in the heart of the European Continent? From there, a working group set up a Convention, launched in 2001 and then approved in Faro in 2005. Today there are 18 countries that have ratified the Framework Convention within the Council of Europe, a body that puts in place tools of this kind precisely to increase awareness and collaboration between the different European countries on sensitive issues. From this point of view, 40 European states have raised the problem of building an innovative convention, which not only put the subject - as they historically did other instruments of this kind - at the centre of the protection and defence of artistic and cultural heritage, but also tried to use cultural heritage as a qualifying aspect, as if it were a real human right and, as such, worthy of protection by conventions that protect human rights, and therefore as an instrument of mutual knowledge that would ensure greater integration. The knowledge of peoples takes place through their own traditions, the knowledge of language, history, traditions and historical heritage: when we visit European cities and admire their monuments, we learn the history of countries and in some way, learning to know ourselves, reduce identity conflicts. This is the leap in quality made by the Convention under consideration, which raises certain issues, such as the possibility of people, through the knowledge of their own community, of their own historical heritage, of growing culturally, of being an element of peace, of improving mutual relations. Therefore, from this point of view, the Convention is truly an innovation and its ratification an important response to the Council of Europe, a place where people with different stories and sensibilities meet and try to respond to the challenges ahead. Here I am presenting the result of our work, not forgetting the fact that, in proposing the ratification of the Convention under consideration, we have made last in the Commission two amendments: one is precisely the transposition of the opinion of the 1st Commission - as I mentioned in the preamble - and therefore the idea that the Convention cannot harm the articles of the Constitution that refer precisely to the defence of our historical heritage and more, in general, the laws in force in this field, with the addition - for which I thank Vice-President Montevecchi - of a fair recognition and a fair concern for the safeguarding of the remarkable professionalism and excellence that are concerned with protecting and defending our historical and cultural heritage. The Convention which we propose to approve, consisting of a preamble and 23 articles divided into five parts, recalls in Article 1 the potential value of cultural heritage, stressing the importance of its preservation, its role in the construction of a peaceful and democratic society, the idea that mutual knowledge of our cultural heritage can truly be an antidote to further war conflicts; a mutual knowledge that avoids the emergence of conflict. Point II of the Convention refers to cultural heritage as a set of resources inherited from the past, reflecting values and beliefs. There is the idea that knowledge of our historical heritage and its protection have to do with a new model of sustainable development. Points IV and V of the Convention dealt with the theme of participation, as we increase awareness and knowledge, but also increased usability and the possibility of participating in activities that make our historical heritage more and more known. Finally, the bill of ratification, which is the result of the joint examination of the two draft laws that I referred to in the preamble, the Senate Act 257, at the first signature of Senator Marcucci, and the Senate Act 702, by Senator Montevecchi, consists of five articles which concern respectively the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the implementing measures of the Convention, the financial coverage and the entry into force. For all the above reasons, for the innovative capacity of an instrument of this kind, which goes beyond the mere, albeit noble, protection and defence of artistic heritage, promoting a new awareness in defining cultural heritage as a real human right and a fundamental instrument for mutual knowledge, I propose to the Assembly to ratify the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Leu Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u38	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Arte Paritario \ Ugo Foscolo Â Â Â Â of Rome, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u39	I inform you that a question for a preliminary ruling and a question for suspension have been submitted. He asked Senator Briziarelli to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1 and the question referred for a preliminary ruling QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his sustained effort, but that is not what he said. I realize that, on the basis of intentions, the Faro Convention may seem to be something acceptable and harmless, but it is not so, especially for a country like Italy, where cultural heritage - please remember this definition - is what we are, and then I will return to this point. Ratifying the Lighthouse Convention because Europe is asking us to do so means to commit suicide - let me say the word - by drinking the famous cup of hemlock alone and we cannot allow that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This justifies the submission of a question for a preliminary ruling. Unfortunately - I say this seriously - in the political struggle that often takes place here, the sense of the question referred has been lost, which is sometimes used in a diatribe to go to the count, just to block any procedure. This time, in the face of the cry of the wolf, the wolf that we all, inverted parts, have issued, the question of the preliminary ruling is real and really concerns our Constitution and also the international treaties. I say this because there are four articles, in particular Article 4, Article 7 and Articles 15 and 16 of the Convention, which create profound problems and run counter to our Constitution. Article 4, which seems to reduce the scope of the Convention, actually extends it, because it says that the use of cultural heritage - I stress the term "patrimony" - and then it will be understood why - can only be limited in order to protect the right of the freedom of others, for example the right to freedom of religion. The fresco of San Petronio, in which Muhammad is tortured by demons, is then at risk, if there are two communities that see it differently. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even the Divine Comedy is at risk, since already numerous Muslim associations have asked for its withdrawal from education plans here in Italy, since the Divine Comedy, which is our heritage, is already censored, in some passages, in certain Islamic countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's a real risk. This is true of Articles 4 and 7, which provide for conciliation between communities which see it differently. Even more serious is the combined provisions of Articles 15 and 16, which states that there are no direct consequences of the Convention, but there are indirect consequences of limitation because it is expected that, at European level, there will be a committee that can arrange, indicate and provide for concrete actions for the implementation of the Convention. This goes straight to banging with Article 9 of the Constitution, which recognizes the value of our historical, artistic and cultural heritage and does so because it has existed for centuries before the Constitution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is something that comes even earlier and that is part of our people and of our very essence. Allow me, then, to retrace some of the passages that say a lot about the Lighthouse Convention. It was originally signed in Portugal in 2005 by six countries: Albania, Armenia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Latvia and Portugal. With all due respect, it is a pulpit with respect to the total patrimony of humanity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have two-thirds. I come from Umbria and it would be enough for my region to have a cultural heritage beyond these six states. Another 12 have been added over the years and, if you like, I would like to quote them because the rapporteur did not do so: Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia, Croatia, Finland, Latvia, Luxembourg, North Macedonia, Montenegro, Norway, Moldova, Slovakia, Serbia and Slovenia. I do not read to you Britain, France and Greece, another cradle of culture, because they are not there, because they have not signed it and have not ratified it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Don't tell us we're always late. Can we at least dictate the times on culture? At least on cultural heritage we are not late. Since 2005, Berlusconi II, Berlusconi III, Prodi II and Berlusconi IV have not signed this Convention. We have all passed, as centre-right and centre-left, and we have not signed and ratified that Convention. Do you know when it was signed? It was signed on February 27, 2013, two days after the 2013 general election, when there was still the Monti Government, the last poisoned meatball, the last gift to Europe. The Monti Government has signed this Convention, a Government without popular legitimacy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu]] No one had previously dared to commit suicide and commit suicide by signing such an act. I add, in a whisper of attention, that in the next five years with the Led Governments, Renzi, Gentiloni has never been ratified. Will there be a reason? Do we have to do this today? Why should we do that when people a little smarter, even French cousins, have looked at it well? When it comes to Europe, quoting Monti is a bit like quoting that poster of the American presidential campaign with Nixon: would you ever buy a car used by that man? Well, would you ever make a decision about the country and asking for Europe from a guy like Monti? We don't! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We do not want to see a majority taking orders from Brussels, which has imposed on us the Count-a, which is not very different from a Monti-a. I was saying before words are important, as Nanni Moretti said. In the translation of this act there is the game of the three cards, because in the text we talk about cultural heritage. In Italian legislation, assets have a precise definition. It is contained in the single text. In the translation of the Ministry of Education we speak of inheritance because it is immaterial and it is specified, according to sources of the Ministry, that the cultural heritage expression has been deliberately translated as a cultural heritage to avoid confusion and overlap with the definition of cultural heritage, referred to in Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 42 of 2004 (code of cultural goods and landscape). Well, today it disappears again and, in the text you give us, it returns to "patrimony." Returning to the hemlock I mentioned earlier, it is not that, by attaching above the word "poison" to that "beverage" with a strong taste, you change the substance: you die the same! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's not that by changing a term and being smart, the substance changes. This is the reality of what you would like to hide and conceal. I was talking about more or less theoretical examples. There is one last, however, with which I would like to close my speech, which dates back to 2016, to the visit of Iranian President Rohani here in Rome. That visit, in 2016, took place at the Capitolini Museums, with a meeting between Renzi and the Iranian President. Some naked statues were covered out of respect, as was said. But that's not respect. I could quote Salvini, but it would be a little obvious. I prefer to mention Michele Serra, an institution for the left. I don't have to tell you who he is. Do you know how he commented that action? He said it meant hiding ourselves! Well, by approving this act, let us conceal ourselves! I am addressing Mrs De Petris and Mrs Nugnes, who have now joined that political party. At the time, a petition by Left Ecology and Freedom said: We ask for immediate and official explanations on a choice that we consider a shame and mortification for art and culture understood as universal concepts. With this vote we do not stop barbarism elsewhere, but open the doors to obscurantism in our home and give the possibility, to those who have asked it, to demand it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I also address Minister Franceschini, who, if you will, was Minister even then and said: Me and Renzi didn't know anything about it. It is an incomprehensible choice. Today, Minister Franceschini, who said he knew nothing about it at the time, can make up for it. It can make up for it because today it can decide to respect the sense of others in a different way. If we approve the ratification of the Convention, we give everyone else the right to trample on our history and culture. And he, who said he didn't know at the time, can't pretend today that he didn't know. I would like to make one final appeal to all my colleagues. Vote for ratification today means earning a place among the traitors of the homeland of Dantesca memory: it means betraying the Italians, our history, our tradition and our civilization. [[Live applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u44	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I have tried to listen carefully and I will try to reply with respect to my colleague from the League, who had to explain the reasons for a suspensive issue. In fact, he has explained - in my opinion too badly, and I will now try to explain why - the reasons for a vote against. The first element - and I could stop here - is that I have not identified a single argument for which the opposition, which we had already understood in the past, of the North Leg Group to the ratification of the Faro Convention should in some way change if we, further, after having already unnecessarily suspended, for almost a year, this ratification, should have suspended it again this morning. If we suspend it, we do not understand why, miraculously, all the fears evoked in the last ten minutes of intervention should resolve. And I say fears not by chance, because the intervention - I am sorry to say and I do it with respect, but also for a material analysis - was dense of a terrifying and dangerous Islamophobia and a new category that is added to Islamophobia, which is Montifobia. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In this House, recently, on every subject we are wondering what Senator Monti has done, who is frankly a man of extraordinary intelligence, but is not the keystone of Italian politics for some time now. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I must say that I have not found an argument, except these two phobias along with a third, namely provincialism. We have heard the disrespectful quote from a number of European states which he probably knows very little about and which are listed as being a representation. Since they are not the known ones, the fashionable ones, those where you go mainly on vacation, then they are not important, and instead those states have their dignity. Among other things, the Convention should at least be read before proposing to suspend or not to approve it. Moreover, Europe does not ask us to do so, since it is a Convention promoted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has nothing to do with the European Union: these are two different things. After a year and a half of suspension, we should have at least a vague knowledge of the subject we are talking about. As proof of this, that the statues covered during Rohani's visit are right - to quote a colleague from the past - since at the time the Lighthouse Convention had not even been ratified? Are we saying that an event of the past, when the Convention had not yet been ratified, would have something to do with the Convention itself? Maybe it's exactly the opposite. Maybe we should start using our heads and playing our role as a great cultural superpower within the Council of Europe. In this way we will become the promoters of ratification by the great countries, because we will be the first of the great countries to ratify this Convention. For once we would be the first; not first the Italians, but first Italy to ratify the Lighthouse Convention. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] ; first Italy to play its role as a great cultural superpower and its role as a country that applies and gives the main role to cultural diplomacy. That is what we are able to do, what we are in a position to do, and that is why we must be the first to ratify this Heritage Convention. Now, translation is an important issue. Umberto Eco said that every translation at the bottom is a betrayal and on the play of translation words we heard a piece of argument a few minutes ago, because it is heritage, identity, heritage. What are we discussing? The concept of heritage, in fact, in the English language is very clear: it is not about putting a label or another in front of the text. The valuable work that has been done by the Foreign Affairs Commission has tried to clarify the concept, also receiving some of the intelligent observations made and identifying the point of balance with our Constitutional Charter, which, among other things - it is tautological - remains superior to any other legislation and appears to be the ratification of an international convention. But I shouldn't have to explain it, either, because it's not my business. Mr Briziarielli reminded us that he was Umbrian, we know that. Well, I wonder what St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of Italy, would have said about the words we have heard. I'm afraid that islamophobia would have been hurled at him, since St. Francis met the Saladin. It is true that our cultural heritage is very previous and comes from a long past prior to the approval of the Constitution, but precisely for this reason it explains to us what are the deep relations that belong to an ancient past, that cross the Mediterranean and make sure that the Greek and Roman culture and Aristotle himself arrive to us passing through the coasts of Libya, Tunisia and Algeria. So when we talk about tradition, culture and identity defense, we have to have at least a vague idea of what we're talking about. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] In fact, it is not born in the meadow of Pontida and certainly does not wear helmets with horns. I don't know if even in Umbria they started to put the helmets of the Vikings, or they remember that they are the land and the cradle of St. Francis of Assisi, because here is the difference. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] So - let me say this, my colleague - your speech was extraordinary because you have very well argued the reasons why not only we must not postpone the ratification in question, but it is urgent to commit ourselves to recovering the cultural heritage of Italy and to re-educating a part of the country and also of this Parliament with regard to our cultural tradition which is first and foremost within us and which we must defend. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Leu Groups. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u47	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the words of my colleague from the League are truly incomprehensible, especially after listening to Mr Alfieri's report. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Furthermore, I would like to remind my colleague from the League that the Convention under consideration, among other things, is intended to enhance the cultural traditions of the States and also the local dialects, which should be subjects dear to colleagues in the League. Let us now come to the merits. I would like to thank my colleagues Marcucci and Montevecchi and the rapporteur, Mr Alfieri, for what they have said. The Convention is an innovative instrument that can stabilize even more and determine peace processes in places that are not too quiet at the moment. It is an instrument which enhances the cultural, historical and identity heritage, as well as knowledge, and which, therefore, helps even more the relations between States and supports the heritage of the present and the future. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it very difficult to speak because there is an infernal noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u48	Please, colleagues, be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u49	Please, Senator Blinky. SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. This Convention fully falls within the scope of the protection of human rights, as provided for in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As many as 18 nations have ratified, many others, like us, unfortunately, have been trying to do so for a year and a half. Therefore, the reasons for finally ratifying and implementing the Convention in question are all and correspond exactly to the need to enhance and promote the stabilisation and peace-making relationship between countries. The Convention is a strong element in helping to have better relations between States, feeding and activating cultural diplomacy. I believe that for all these reasons it is necessary to move forward today, trying to overcome absolutely absurd ideologies and pretexts. For these reasons, the Italian Group Viva-PSI considers it absolutely useful to proceed today with the ratification of the Convention under consideration. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u50	I would point out that the question referred by Senator Romeo and other senators (QP1) has been put to the vote by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators (QS1). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u51	Mr President, smoky and messy are the first two adjectives that I associate with the text of the Council of Europe's Framework Convention on the value of cultural heritage for society, which, signed by Italy in 2013, today this House is preparing to ratify by voting in favour, among others, of the 5 Star Movement. Smoky and messy, I'm going to repeat it again, colleagues; and I'm going to add rhetorical. I think so, despite the common sense corrections that Senator Montevecchi has made to the Foreign Affairs Committee in extremis and which must be given credit, as a guarantee of the work of professionals in the cultural sector, objectively endangered by the unspeakable openness to volunteering that an unwise application of the Faro Convention could favor. 10:53 a.m. (Continues Corrado). It commits the State to increasing awareness in the citizen of the economic potential of cultural heritage and to making use of it clearly in an economic logic. Volunteered - I said - that in Italy in the field of cultural goods is already abused, distorted and distorted, as it surrogates the public instead of helping it. The subject remains therefore very thorny and its urgency and delicacy, since ratification still exposes the country, in my opinion, to the concrete danger of accentuating the problematic nature of the current framework, obliges me to speak in essence in dissent from my Group. I have no other way of drawing the House's attention to a scathing reality, which, however, is useful to the State and therefore to each Minister of Culture, at least in the anti-political perspective which today dominates the immediate advantage, sees the spotlight of the media and consequently the consciences of the citizens constantly off, because it is the State - beware - that in the cultural context tolerates, allows and even urges private individuals, when it does not encourage them also financially, to set up voluntary associations or ONLUS foundations that use volunteers. These are now used in all places of culture (libraries, archives, monuments, museums and archaeological areas) as a device not to hire personnel or underpay it or pay it in black, with huge profits that escape tax. In fact, the study of the confusion between volunteering and cultural professions already reaps thousands of victims in this country and risks doing so much more in the future, precisely with the ideological endorsement of the Lighthouse Convention. An assigned affair, which we are carrying out in the 7th Commission in recent days on my own initiative, confirms this and gives us the measure of an abuse that is rampant without finding any embankment, profiting from the absence or ambiguity of the legislation. Think that deregulation has led to our public museums, which incidentally are almost half a thousand on national territory, to a situation - I quote the most up-to-date Istat data, those of January 2019 related to 2017 - for which 65% of institutions employ volunteers and the ratio between volunteers and salaried is 1 to 67. I say 67 volunteers per job. Of course it is no longer a matter of volunteering in the proper and noble sense, but of free masked work, which replaces skilled and paid work, creating unfair competition with those who are not able to offer equal quality of services and preventing professionals from accessing the world of work, or at any rate delaying and subjecting it to little or nothing dignified conditions. To the point that, sometimes, professionals have to pretend to be volunteers in order to work, compensated with miserable expenses. The most resounding scam - you will forgive me if I speak bluntly, but without wanting to offend the thousands of young people who devote themselves to it with a commitment equal to passion and put their hopes in it - is that of civil service, with which the Ministry of Cultural Heritage actually assumes in maturity and pays 3 euros per hour. Moreover, according to a survey conducted by the meritorious association "Do you recognize me?" on employment contracts in the world of cultural goods, almost half of the workers in the sector, often graduates and specialized or doctorates, have a gross hourly pay of less than 8 euros. If it were not for this distortion of the use of volunteering in cultural goods, so that employment in the sector falls despite the record increase of 5% of visitors, and therefore of the ticketing revenues, recorded in 2018 in the places of state culture compared to the previous year, I could also drink in abstract for hours, along with much of this Assembly, of the ideal crispness that impregnates the Lighthouse Convention. Instead, as a cultural technician, I take the serious risk profiles for a country such as ours today. A Convention that, dated 2005, like the UNESCO Convention of Paris on cultural diversity and only two years later to that of Paris and UNESCO, on intangible cultural heritage, in fact transposes and aligns both of them. Indeed, by extending the notion of cultural heritage to understand, I would like to say at last, those which national legislation already recognizes for a long time and defines landscape goods or, better still, landscape, so much so that the code Urbani of 2004 is said of cultural goods and landscape; because a good, as an object, presupposes a subject owner, while the relationship between man and the environment is not belonging. If ever the community is the subject of reference of the environment and indeed, in the end, as it has been written by those who have the title to comment and interpret our administrative law, for the Italian legislator the social reality is identified with the cultural and sensu environmental side. Another interesting aspect, but in my opinion not without its problematic nature, is the subjectivation of the relationship between society and cultural heritage that the Faro Convention pushes in close proximity if not beyond the maximum limit. The commendable desire to put the person instead of the thing at the centre, in fact (will founded on that identity of the community with its cultural heritage and the environment in which it lives that, once again, our system already knows for about twenty years), goes so far as to bring out the idea of an individual's right to cultural heritage. The latter, even if it is qualified among the subjective rights, will not, however, fall within the scope of the perfect subjective rights, therefore absolute, both because there are cultural assets of private property, and that is an uncompressable right - I say it from a person who, having cultivated humanistic studies by passion and profession, can only feel deeply, I would say intrinsically, his every product of human ingenuity, wherever he is and whoever holds him - both because access to the places of public culture is still subject to limitations, which can have the most varied and different practical reasons, all capable of limiting, in fact, collective enjoyment. On the contrary, the exaltation of this right risks only making the fortune of the gallery owners. I shall not dwell briefly on the concept of the people who guide culture, which exudes from the Lighthouse Convention, a concept which has remained outside our system even during the twenty years. I do not allow myself to enter into the substance of the accusation of anachronism raised to the text of the Convention, in particular Article 14, by those who complain that digital is recognized as an absolutely marginal and merely instrumental role (I quote Professor Nicola Barbuti), but allow me to spend a minute on a last observation, completely personal and again as a classicist. It concerns that too general and too aseptic definition of Europe's common heritage, which is contained in Article 3 of the Convention, in my view. It consists, I quote, of all forms of cultural heritage in Europe which constitute, as a whole, a shared source of remembrance, understanding, identity, cohesion and creativity. Between the lines I read a heavy commitment and, in some respects, childish, to silence the solution to the riddle, the keyword that necessarily, as such, is the only one to have to be silenced at all costs. I am referring to the concept of the West and of Western culture, much wider than the geographical limits of Europe of all time because, trivializing, it has always united all the countries facing the Mediterranean - those of the Antonian Constitution of 212, if we want - as well as all the individuals who recognize themselves in the product of the classical culture digested and wonderfully regurgitated other by the millennial bowels of Christianity and Islam. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u52	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u53	Mr President, today we are ratifying the Lighthouse Convention, signed in 2005 to highlight the value of cultural heritage for societies. In fact, it is a bill that had been submitted to the Senate already in the last legislature and that, thanks also to President Marcucci, had come to the approval of the Commission of competence. It did not come to this House because of the early end of the parliamentary term. This is a measure we wanted to share and therefore receive the greatest convergence of all political forces, precisely because of the importance it can play at European level. It is an agreement already ratified by more than 17 countries; Italy signed it already in 2013. We therefore believe that ratification is absolutely necessary in order for it to become effective. The Faro Convention aims to promote a broader understanding of cultural heritage and, above all, its relationship with communities; it promotes the participation of citizens as an indispensable element in order to increase awareness in Europe of the value of cultural heritage and its contribution to the well-being and quality of life through the principle of participatory valorisation, through the sharing of public, private, associations and volunteering institutions. This is the sense of a convention that seems to me to oppose a part of this House, particularly centre-right and League, precisely because it is an agreement that transforms diversity into wealth, identity, history, the culture of each individual community as a source and element of mutual knowledge and approach. Diversity as an element of union and not of division. I think this should be emphasized. It is a clear difference between center-right and center-left can interpret the cultural heritage, which - it should be stressed - is an element of dialogue for us. For this reason we believe that it must be made accessible to all and the Convention, as already pointed out, in addition to offering constraints on actions to protect, safeguard and recover cultural heritage, has a very innovative approach because it even establishes a right to cultural heritage; a right understood as the right of the person and man; a right both to participate, therefore to contribute and enrich the local communities, therefore to produce culture, and to access knowledge and cultural heritage. This right corresponds to a great responsibility on the part of public institutions, which is to establish resources, but it is also to adopt concrete policies in order to make accessible and recognizable the immense heritage of our country also through adequate school education and appropriate vocational training. Our territories and local communities are rich in immense realities, represented by villages and museums. We have a wealth that is not only kept in the great cities of art, but also in those rural realities that continue, day by day, to safeguard and preserve it. Our country is the guardian of 54 places recognized as UNESCO sites, of universal value; indeed, it has the highest number in the world of UNESCO sites. That is why we have a great responsibility, which the Convention recognises as a contribution of cultural heritage to the development of human beings and society. But this corresponds, also for the territories and governments of all institutional levels, a further responsibility, that is to enrich the decision-making processes, policies and planning of the use of the territory, including the impacts on the cultural heritage, that is, in the assessment of the risk that local government choices can produce on the cultural heritage. This is a very innovative approach that we could define precisely for the sustainable use of cultural heritage. The Convention calls for this, but it also fully recognises the potential of a cultural heritage that can be a vehicle and a carrier of sustainable economic development and must therefore also be implemented and protected by the creation of digital content in the information society. The Convention is fundamental because it obliges the parties to create a legal and financial environment which is useful to implement these obligations and this forecast. It therefore obliges all levels of public authorities, but also private owners and associations, to converge on this objective. In conclusion, Mr President, the Faro Convention commits the parties to take measures to promote access to the cultural heritage and democratic participation of each individual, recognising the importance of cultural heritage for the growth of society. Recognizing and defending the value attributed by each community to the cultural heritage in which it is identified therefore means strengthening the bond of belonging, of cohesion, but also of mutual sharing. It means strengthening the awareness of the value of cultural heritage, as well as of the conjunction and dialogue between different identities, but also between the past, present and future, in a very rich and beautiful Europe of peoples. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u54	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u55	Mr President, the Council of Europe Convention, which we finally approve, has an enormous symbolic and political scope for the power of content and is capable of overturning a model of wrong development and instead of putting culture as a collective and shared heritage of mutual recognition as the primary right of man at the centre of the processes of transformation. The culture understood in a rethinked and revolutionized sense, as a factor of the whole that encloses the significance of the historical and anthropological experience of our communities; the culture that promotes creativity, creative industries and districts, and therefore autonomy, independence of thought, authorial spaces, pluralism and inclusion. Culture that builds citizenship and democracy and that is an indispensable tool in a time like ours, in which the enormous impact of the incessant technological and digital revolution must be governed, which brings with it - we see it - the risk not of an opening, but of a further closure and an increasingly hard and oligopolistic restriction of the market, to the detriment of those who are outside the cartels of the great majors of digital. And here is the urgent issue of the recognition of copyright, the transposition of the European directive, the recognition and support of independent productions. Mr President, this Convention dates back to October 2005, fourteen years ago, but to a great extent it has already permeated our thinking, our action, our legislation: I am thinking of advanced reforms such as those we carried out in the last legislature, where the idea of culture is a driving force for development and a formidable economic and social multiplier, capable of creating growth and employment, of countering inequalities, of upgrading and offering urban spaces, and therefore physical, or immaterial spaces of knowledge and awareness, and always building integration. Therefore, culture as a tool of fundamental security, more than others. Yet in a large part of the population, culture suffers from a lack of recognition and social legitimacy. For this reason it is essential to make it accessible, popular, contrast an elitist, conservative conception, and instead make it a widespread feeling, a piece of one's identity recognizable to all. For this reason, in the Convention the definition of heritage and cultural heritage that is introduced is very innovative, and speaks of what is the result of the interaction over time between peoples and places, and therefore a conception of great strength, of great modernity, which prefigures a new humanism, an ethic of responsibility for what we have inherited (the environment, the landscape, the cities) and for future generations, their right to live in these places, to take advantage of them. At the centre is the person, his ability to build civitas; there is a very strong link between the cultural good and the territorial community, which is supported by a key concept: widespread participation and active citizenship in the ability to take care of cultural heritage. When this happens, then we are in the presence of what the Convention defines and hopes for a community of inheritance that - I mean - becomes a community of destiny, which is recognized for what it has been, for what it is, for what it will be; not only objects as precious as it will be, but memory, testimony, sense of belonging, research, documentation, as mentioned in Article 9 of our Constitution, which links the development of culture, scientific and technical research, protection of the landscape and of the historical and artistic heritage. At the heart of this conception of cultural heritage are human values, dialogue and peaceful coexistence, because the tension that binds these objectives to the constitutional reasons of the Council of Europe, i.e. ideals and principles based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, is very strong. This is the perimeter of our cultural heritage, which we reaffirm here. [[Applause from the PD Group),]] of our civic heritage: an identity of destiny for which Europe was conceived after the war as a place of rights, emancipation and social well-being. Today, more than ever, this is still our mission that binds itself to that affate that in the Convention calls to collect all the positive energies of society in the care of a heritage that is no longer intangible as a work of art or an archaeological finds, but is alive, in the making, because it coincides with the space that is made of human aggregations, and therefore a living, relational space, which includes at the same time historical centers and peripheries, agricultural landscapes and industrial infrastructures. As a result, protection is not reserved for employees alone, but is based on sharing, on the protagonism of citizens, on cultural volunteering. I am referring to an idea of culture open to society and not aristocratic, in which protection exists not according to the good but to the beneficiary, which is the community. Therefore they live together economy, culture, quality of life, and therefore there must be a virtuous management of volunteering, not an abuse, not a surreptitious use to the detriment instead of the tasks and recognition of professional figures of cultural assets, which must be strengthened by implementing and extending the law of 2014. Mr President, Massimo Montella, one of the most important scholars, wrote that this Convention redefines the concept of cultural good, from the object to the whole, from the value itself to the value of use, from museumization to valorization. He is right, in particular because the Convention identifies in local communities the place of the construction and maintenance of this heritage, referring to the great legacy of the Annales school, centered on the microhistory and the understanding of the becoming from the bottom of the processes of social change. Mr President, we must have the very clear strength to recognize the role and centrality of marginal, distant, disadvantaged, yet neurological territories for a new strategy and planning for our internal areas, for the revival of an innovative artisan model, historically and culturally linked to small communities and their transformations, which has led to the formation and widespread diffusion, over the centuries, of an incredible artistic, archaeological, landscape and urban heritage. Our heritage is so envied in the world because we have been able to jealously protect it, because it is one with the connective tissue of networks and solidarity bonds, with the experience of our families and our family stories. It is a whole that cannot be divided, nor cut down, as it is written in the provision at our examination and as we first experienced, long before this Convention, in our history and in our collective memory. We who come from the manufacturing territories, made in Italy, so loved in the world, know that in a straw hat, in a leather loafer or in a fabric there is a bigger story, there is an ancestral wisdom, there are lives, that are all one with the peasant culture of food and with the environment that surrounds us, in which you can recognize the colors of Crivelli, the landscapes of Licini or the verses of Leopardi and those who wear them know that, doing so, he will also be part of a history and a great community, open and multicultural, of a heritage rich in the past, but alive and vital in the present and great, how great is our future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u56	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u57	Mr President, listening to my colleague who just spoke it seemed to be in a beautiful book, in a beautiful fairy tale, where everything is beautiful and where everyone loves each other. How beautiful: it seemed a moment of general love for the beauties of the world. But cultural heritage is not European, it is global, but it must be managed by Italy and not by its fine words! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's the difference between us and you! Then I will enter into the substance of the debate, but the first thing I did was to go see the Council of Europe, which adopted this Convention, made at Faro - not even in Italy, but in Faro! - in 2005, which leads us to say that cultural heritage is of the world. No, it's from our country! Mr President, I would ask you to take note of what I am about to say: the Council of Europe, at its last sitting, did not let an elected senator, i.e. myself, speak because he thought differently from them. This is the Council of Europe! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I was the last rapporteur, but they did not give me the floor, to express something different about climate migrants. The Senate should defend minorities within the Council of Europe, which is made up of 47 states, including Turkey, of which we have heard today what you also think. So let us hand over our cultural heritage to Europe! There's no way in the world! You're really something incredible. Let us read Article 7 of the Convention, which also seems beautiful: cultural heritage, as you said, we all love each other; how beautiful. But then I see that they establish the table of conciliations to establish the values of works of art: from us the works of art are 2,000 years old, just turn around Rome or walk in any Italian city to realize that our works of art are in our Christian values. This is our history, these are our traditions [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then I would never want to be in a debate (which happens) in which a minority observes - because it happened - that the crucifix in the Chamber is annoying and that therefore we must remove it. No. Or before, the colleague recalled a fresco of the fifteenth century that depicts Muhammad tortured by demons in Bologna and is therefore at risk. There will be a discussion table, that's what scares me: our traditions we know how to defend them! But now the PD, the Tax Party, and the Happy Degrowth Party have joined forces to deliver our heritage to Europe with the Convention under discussion, and that is a disgrace. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ! That is the most important thing and that is what I regret. I therefore ask my colleagues in Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia to vote together against ratification, because Articles 15 and 22 also demolish our values, which are much more important than the economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Because when I question the values, it's like when the tree cuts its roots and falls. You are destroying and questioning our values. I see minorities - and this is the same concept as this Convention - that call them into question; I bring the debate on the defence of minorities: you want to return to the concept of parent 1 and parent 2. It's the same thing: our traditions refer to Dad and Mom and you want to annihilate traditions to defend minorities, which do not represent this country [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I therefore invite the Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia to vote with us against the ratification of this Convention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u58	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u59	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at least it is a great satisfaction today to put at the heart of the cultural debate what the heritage represents, in a sense we could say the very soul of Italy. We are talking about what makes us not only famous and appreciated in the world, but what really made great the contribution that our country has given and that we hope with all our heart can continue to give, especially in the field of culture in its multiple manifestations, of which art really constitutes the most extraordinary interface between our past, our present and also the heritage that we want to give to future generations. There is no doubt that great Italian tourism is an art tourism: people come to Italy especially to visit our cities of art. He comes to Milan, Rome, Naples and Florence, wherever he is, also and above all to contemplate those countries, those villages - let's call them so - small only by size, but great for cultural heritage, which are real museums en plein air. They are truly the expression of a wealth shared by a territory, by the people who have lived there and who continue to live there, keeping all of that heritage together. It would be very strange if today the debate were to be structured according to a sort of derby between those who believe in cultural heritage, those who want to defend it and those who seem to resist, for example, the recognition of this Convention. It's not like that. We firmly believe that the cultural heritage, not only Italian but of every country, is the expression and soul of that country. I think, just to give an example, how Italian cultural heritage was defended in the last war, how friends and enemies, in front of the national artistic heritage, stopped, because they perceived that it was something that went beyond the national dimension. It would not explain, otherwise, the gigantic migration - so to speak - of educated people who come to see, to contemplate this heritage, who fill our halls to admire a beauty that is not only a harmony of physical form, but makes those who observe it feel that he himself is the protagonist of this adventure. Otherwise, the work of art would remain of the one who created it, while the work of art is of each of us and when I speak of work of art I refer to that extraordinary introduction for which the work of art lives in a context. However, this is not the subject of today. Today's theme sees all Italians, we parliamentarians, belonging to all parties, on the side of culture, to defend this heritage. The point on which the opposition can in fact arise, the different strategy of protecting this heritage, is another. There is no doubt that we all want to guarantee our heritage and that of other countries, but we come from a culture in which the collections of all the great European museums are largely the result of what we could call a collection of works of art from the places of origin. The Pantheon is located in Rome, as well as Piazza Navona, but I also think, for example, of the famous obelisks of Rome, which are imported works of art. I think of the richness of the Vatican Museums, the richness of the Capitoline Museums, to make only two examples referring to our context. We consider our heritage what we have achieved in some way, but also what we have kept. We felt like guardians of beauty and art. We all are in here, no matter how we vote. Let us never think that, in this Parliament, we lack this extraordinary gene, which is the passion for art, which we all have. The difference, as I said, arises on another aspect, of which I have not heard trace in the speeches of those who preceded me, that is, whether the protection of this heritage must remain mainly national or should fall within the competence of this sort of committee of protection and supervision and whether there can be raids in this committee of people who can dictate law to our home deciding what is beautiful and what is not, what must be guarded and what not. Some friends and colleagues referred to an example recently mentioned, namely the crucifixes in the classrooms. Well, just take a ride inside Palazzo Madama, get out of this room and look at the tapestries depicting the Nativity or the history of the archangel Raffaele (on the top of the Palazzo di Montecitorio there is a cross), to understand that it is impossible to impoverish our heritage of its symbols and its richness, which tells us about our Christian roots. (Senator Rufa's apology.) I insist, however, that the real point for which we shall abstain is who must protect this heritage. One cannot expropriate a country of responsibility for the protection of its own heritage. As we have seen, it is precisely these days that we are discussing whether "The Vitruvian Man" will be able to move or will have to stay in Italy because work of art too fragile and too beautiful to be delivered even simply to the move operation. I believe that today we should actually incorporate in this culture also all the technology that allows us to reproduce these works of art and to recreate them in installations that allow us to enjoy a work of art wherever it is, leaving it also where it is located, but making it enjoyable for all, in a enjoyment that is given not only by the contemplation of the eye, but also by an observation that refers us to all the values that that that work of art transmits. We will insist that today these methodologies of interaction between the different museums and between the different locations that have the culture, the experience and also that right of belonging should be updated in order to do so. As is rightly said in this Treaty, anyone, even the smallest of the citizens, is responsible for the cultural heritage of his country. This sort of right-duty, which is read precisely in the report, in a certain sense democratizes art. Therefore, all Italians are responsible for this, but precisely because all Italians are at the same time protagonists of contemplation and protection, this must be maintained in a style, in a culture and in a capacity to make decisions. Just think of the insertion of a work of art in its context. A typical example is the famous monument in the square of the Capitol, of which the ancient tradition says that, when all the gold that covers it will be consumed, the city of Rome will fail. Think of how this monument was guarded and moved - there is a very beautiful copy - into the Capitoline Museums. These decisions really belong to a country, which in some way guarantees not only the work of art, but also its contextualization or in this sort of committee of protection, could anyone claim totally different positions tomorrow? That's not possible. We must ensure that each country can maintain its own heritage and make it usable to others, but the responsibility for this operation must remain at the head of the country because its soul is precisely in the relationship between the work of art and its context, because the beauty between nature and culture makes the greatness of a people and a country. It is in this direction that we want to continue to enhance the great and small works of art. We want to continue to exploit a country's structural heritage. In a film that I have seen recently it was said that the destruction of the works of art intentionally pursued by Hitler - there are several events that confirm it - tended, in reality, to destroy in the work of art the soul of that people, to leave it without roots. We want these roots, because they belong to our history and we are responsible for the future. Therefore, in a powerful form of relay we want to deliver them to the next generations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u61	Mr President, ratification of the Faro Convention is an important moment to reflect carefully on the role that our country wants to define for the respect of its cultural heritage. First of all, for the sake of clarity, I would like to stress that the Convention speaks of cultural heritage, correct translation of cultural heritage English. It is a different concept not to be confused with that of cultural heritage. The difference is precisely in the role of the individual for whom heritage is only one possible means of achieving, through the definition of cultural heritage, a full awareness of his personality and, ultimately, his historical role and the common human values that unite the citizens of every European nation. It is from our historical period that an authentic appeal is made to give life to a new humanism. The Lighthouse Convention, in pursuing a closer relationship between the Member States of the European Union, through the safeguarding and promotion of principles based on respect for human rights - in fact, frequent references to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - shifts attention from the object, made up of heritage, to the individual, with the aim of using cultural heritage to place it in a context of other individuals who share experiences, values, feelings and culture. The Faro Convention has already played a historic role in promoting actions to protect cultural heritage in countries with less up-to-date legislation than ours. Although Italy, whose role in world culture is out of the question, protects itself and its traditions since the Renaissance, then passes through normative instruments such as the edict of Cardinal Pacca of 1820, the law of national protection n. 1089 of 1939 and the unique text, then merged into the code of cultural heritage of 2004, still in force today. Whoever believes that the Faro Convention is for Italy a new instrument of protection, or that it simply has to do with protection, has probably not understood its true spirit. The Faro Convention, on the other hand, represents for us the possibility of harmonising an area, that of culture, in which different actors over the years have also followed the constitutional and legislative mandates of the valorization and use of our cultural heritage. Six times in the text of the Convention calls for sustainable economic development as an objective of developing practices to protect cultural heritage. But how can economic development be sustainable without putting the role of the human individual at the centre of its community? A peaceful and stable society, reminds us of the Convention, can only be based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law referred to in Article 3 of the Convention itself. Human rights include labour rights and fair and satisfactory remuneration (Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights). A right so important that it was considered primary by the founding fathers of our Constitution: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. But the Lighthouse Convention also calls on the signatory countries to seek forms of citizen involvement in a management, which is in turn defined as sustainable, of cultural heritage. This is also a principle, like the right to work, which is referred to in our Constitution as the principle of subsidiarity, in Article 118. For the sake of clarity: the Convention signed in Valletta concerns the protection of the archaeological heritage; the Lighthouse Convention aims to enhance the value and potential of cultural heritage as a resource for sustainable development, which contributes to the improvement of the quality of life. I believe that active participation by the communities contributes to the moral and cultural growth of the communities and to the preservation of memory, creating collective and widespread awareness, but does not imply the degradation of the cultural professions. I am thinking of my fellow archaeologists, such as art historians, archivists, librarians, restorers, but also tourist guides: as cultural technicians we have nothing to fear from this Convention. At this point we need to think, together with the Convention's call, of an economic model of sustainable cultural heritage, based on a system of subsidiarity and composed of civil society, the State and the private sector. A system in which these three players work together to create new economic forms, compatible with a common design, in which everyone performs his functions, without fear, on the basis of his legitimate competences. Such a system will be able to achieve the objective of human sustainability only through the promotion of good volunteering practices that respect the role of workers. And here we must commit the Government to the proper role of the competent Ministry, the local authorities and the regions. Only with this objective in mind will ratification of the Lighthouse Convention be a step forward in Italy, too, towards a sustainable use of cultural heritage, which will increase a genuine sense of individual and collective responsibility for our common goods. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u62	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Economic Technical Institute of Bressanone, in the province of Bolzano, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u63	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u66	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the draft law ratifying the Faro Convention. With all honesty, we cannot understand the tones, some absolutely exaggerated up to a sort of terrorism, used during the debate on ratification in our examination, as if it were a sort of weakening of the protection of our cultural heritage. Honestly, they are tones that not only cannot be shared but that do not correspond at all to the reality of this Convention. I would also like to point out that, in our opinion, this is certainly a text that introduces profound changes, a text that we could define as revolutionary because it profoundly renews the concept of cultural heritage, considering the concepts of heritage and cultural heritage as a set of resources inherited from the past that populations identify independently of who owns the property. This establishes a sort of right to cultural heritage as an inalienable human right within the universal rights of the person. The Treaty is absolutely in line with Article 9 of our Constitution, which protects the landscape and cultural heritage. Frankly - I tell Senator Binetti - there is one thing I cannot understand. All of us, Senator, are absolutely aware, especially for us and for our country (which perhaps holds the highest number, as a percentage, of cultural assets), that in Italy we have realized that union, which unfortunately many times we have tried to break, between nature, history, the role of man, production of artistic and cultural goods and beauty of the landscape. This has certainly informed the whole history of our country and, therefore, also our landscape and cultural heritage are the fruit of the stratification of our history (from the Greek-Roman culture and civilization to the Christian one, because in our country everything is strongly intertwined). Of this we are not only proud, but well aware. If there has been a problem in our country, it is that it has not guaranteed with force and developed in a serious way all the instruments of protection. I would like to recall, for example, how little has been invested in our country to strengthen all the tools of culture, from archaeological operators, inspectors and superintendences (figures and institutions responsible for the protection of culture). Often there has been a use of the territory that has also involved a consumption of our historical and archaeological goods. In this Convention we see an opportunity and we will also use it to strengthen these instruments. Of course, ratification of a convention is not enough. In fact, we do not believe that we can do as in the past, when - for example - after the ratification of the Landscape Convention we have not been involved in fortifying and strengthening the instruments for protecting the landscape. It is therefore necessary to extend protection and its organisation at legislative level. After the ratification of this Convention, we must develop a series of instruments which will enable the principles contained in it to be implemented and enforced. I repeat that in the revolutionary scope of the Convention in question we see the implementation of the spirit and letter of Article 9 of the Constitution which, at the time, introduced an innovative conception, merging landscape and historical-artistic heritage. Here there are no dangers of cultural relativism, nor of having to subjugate who knows what or put something at risk. I heard we sold out our assets. We have often sold it because we have not protected it enough, but it is evident that it is in the spirit of the places and in the identity of our people, becoming an instrument and vehicle of relationship and participation. This is the other scope of this Convention: culture and cultural heritage must be combined with a strong instrument of democracy and participation. Above all - as the rapporteur reminded us - when this Convention was born? It is born, in European countries that had suffered the conflict and war, in the context of experiences aimed at identifying in culture a vehicle to strengthen the relationship between peoples and an instrument of peace. In fact, the deep knowledge of cultural traditions, cultural heritage and cultural heritage also strengthens the possibility of peace, because it enriches it to the full. I would like to mention, among other things, a great teacher like Claudio Abbado, who, on these issues and on the basis of his experience, said that he would do everything again: "to play in the factories, to open La Scala to students and workers, things I did because I thought they were right." And he added: It is not true that in Germany or Austria more is done for culture because they are richer, the opposite is true, they are richer because more is done for culture. This should be the strong element on which we must aim to ratify the Convention. It is a commitment that means investing in the many young people who have put their passion, education and training at the service of culture. I am thinking of archaeologists, architects, archivists, librarians, art historians and all those who are and can be the great heritage and the best form of investment for the future of our country. Even more, cultural policies must permeate the sense of identity, role and vocation on which a country has to invest in some way. The Lighthouse Convention and its ratification, which we are called to approve today, strengthen the principles and values on which our country is founded, precisely because there is finally the possibility that cultural heritage becomes a right of people and moves from the right of cultural heritage to the right to cultural heritage, as an individual and collective use, to benefit from it, enrich people and strengthen solidarity and peace among peoples. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Rampi]] SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u67	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate finally approved the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society in Faro in 2005, which entered into force in October 2011. The draft law ratifying the Convention had already seen its approval in the previous legislature. This is also a measure shared by the current government forces and long-awaited, for which we hope the convergence of all political forces and therefore a rapid approval also by the other branch of Parliament. Between the last legislature and this the Convention recorded the ratification of a further country, reaching a total of 18 nations. It is important, as has been pointed out several times also by those who have preceded me, that knowledge and the use of cultural heritage are fully part of human rights, particularly in the context of the right of the individual and the person to freely take part in the cultural life of the community and to enjoy the arts, as provided for in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Convention, to which we in Italy Viva-PSI today express our full support, aims to promote a broader understanding of the cultural heritage and its relationship with the communities that have produced and hosted it, thus contributing to the construction of peaceful and democratic societies. We do this because the roots of a nation, therefore its culture, its identity, are important to understand both the present and the future. We are talking about roots, that part of the plant that we do not see, but that is fundamental for life itself, as a parallelism of the history of a people, precisely because that historical dimension represents the natural connotation from which comes a society with its traditions, both as a single entity and as part of a wider European culture. Italy, together with China, boasts the largest number of UNESCO sites in the world: 55. It must be remembered that the heritage of a nation is not only that material, but also that immaterial, which also includes languages, which are peculiarities of Italy, with its different and also characteristic dialects; immaterial culture also protected within other international organizations, primarily by UNESCO. This text commits States to an effective promotion of a participatory process of valorisation of cultural heritage. In doing so, the Convention does not impose specific obligations of application for the signatory countries; it leaves them the freedom to assess the most convenient means of implementing the measures envisaged in this text, thus defining the rights and responsibilities relating to cultural heritage and also setting out the commitment for the signatory parties to recognise its public interest, to enhance it, to prepare legislative provisions resulting precisely to promote participation in related activities, requiring the parties to promote a joint organisation of responsibility by public institutions and to encourage access to cultural heritage, including through the use of digital technologies. In short, the text draws a close link between cultural heritage and the tools of knowledge and training. On this point we cannot fail to welcome the allocation of EUR 1 million precisely to facilitate the inclusion in school programmes of the dimension of cultural heritage, thereby encouraging interdisciplinary research and continuing training, through a three-year programme, prepared by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, in consultation with the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of this text on behalf of the Italian Parliamentary Group Viva-PSI. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u70	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, today is a good day for me. I have insisted very much in this legislature, also in my role as president of an opposition group, so that this ratification might be achieved, because I consider the Faro Convention to be a politically important and important act in the interests of our country. I should like to thank the 7th Commission and the President himself. I believe that the parliamentary groups send to the relevant Commissions the people who are best acquainted with the matter. So much so that the 7th Commission voted unanimously on the measure before us. This infuriates me and testifies how those who know the merit know how to vote and where the interest of our country lies. I must also thank President Zaia who, together with the office of the Council of Europe, which is located in Venice, has put in place a series of initiatives in favour of the Lighthouse Convention, even offering a clear perspective on the opportunities that it will give to our country in safeguarding our cultural heritage, but also of our quality economic activities. The Convention was designed at a distant time; I remember that the work was completed in 2005. It is, however, an extremely modern Convention, which broadens the perspective of the cultural values of a country and of Europe as a whole and the valorization and exploitation of its cultural heritage. It is a modern and democratic convention, but it has deep roots. I have difficulty understanding the positions of the League, if not the attitudes due to the instrumental needs of the moment. In fact, the Convention looks deep into our history, into our national and local identities. He looks into ancient crafts, trying to value them, puts people together, values their attitude in a logic of peace, prosperity and perspective; in a logic different from how they mean politics between peoples, nations and people. Culture is our great opportunity. In the past, when the nations could not speak through diplomatic channels, in difficult times they used culture as a vehicle of civilization and confrontation to keep dialogue alive. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When I am told that we are voting today because it is Europe that is ordering us to do so, it is said at the same time that the great nations of Europe, in fact, have not signed the Convention. Which Europe are we talking about then? France, one of those countries that they regard as the powerful of Europe, has not yet signed it, so who are we to be true with? I believe that Italy on cultural heritage, on cultural activities and on their enhancement goes in two directions: that of the use of this heritage by Italian citizens to improve the quality of life, to improve themselves and to achieve full citizenship, but also that of being attractive, to welcome the world, to fully express the ethical responsibility we have towards our cultural heritage. I believe that with this Convention we take a good step forward, we look to the future with the deep roots in our past, with the valorization of our identities, with an approach that leads to a correct consideration of our cultural heritage, which becomes the heritage of each of us and in this perspective a collective heritage, because it is right that it becomes part of our being Country: the leading Italy on cultural heritage. Italy, among the great countries of Europe, sets an example for all others. Italy, which has worked decisively for this Convention to be written in this way. Today is a beautiful day for our country and for Europe. Today Parliament will give a strong signal because it is back at the heart of our country's political activity. In this House, thanks to the Senate of the Republic, today we value our cultural heritage, our desire to know where we come from, who we are and to understand together where we want to go and, why not, together with Europe, but for once we are in charge of it, because in this regard we set an example for everyone. The Democratic Party will therefore vote proudly in favour of ratification when we consider it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] (at 12:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u73	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I preannounce the vote against by the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. We had two speeches in discussion, by my colleagues Briziarelli and Bishops, who were precise and vehement in explaining the reason for our vote against, but we can also add another small detail. Today, many colleagues have spoken about the past, the cultural heritage of the past and the prospects of protection - it is not well known from those who - of our cultural heritage. Apart from the fact that heritage and cultural heritage are the identity of a country, but what I have not heard of today is the future. Someone said earlier that the adoption of this Convention is a step forward. For me it is a step forward towards the abyss. It is the abyss of those who renounce an important piece of sovereignty that is cultural sovereignty. There is someone in this House who perhaps knows a certain Antonio Gramsci: he is part of the Italian cultural heritage; Antonio Gramsci, like Giovanni Gentile or Benedetto Croce. But if tomorrow our country, of strong immigration, had a theologically oriented minority that says that Gramsci's thought should not be taught in schools, because he is a materialist, because he denies his thought and theological dimension of society, could we accept him? Would anyone accept that? If the League says so, then the League is a Christian fanatic and is chauvinist, but if another minority, which is growing in our country and which is theologically oriented, told you how would you react? What is wrong with us in the Lighthouse Convention is the fact that we do not recognize the cultural identity and heritage of every territory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Lighthouse Convention opens the possibility that an organized minority, in the passivity and fragmentation of politics and of those who manage the country (this Government is an example of this), can obtain not from the Italian Government, not from some Italian body, but even from supranational structures of coordination, what is unthinkable. In April 2019 the Chamber of Deputies, with a cross vote, approved the motion for the recognition of the genocide of Armenians, so the genocide of Armenians can be taught at school and enters the cultural heritage of our country. It can be studied in universities and can be commemorated. You are well aware that a NATO member country, a Muslim country, which is guilty of that genocide, even denies its existence. This country is a member of the Council of Europe, as my colleague Bishops rightly recalled. This is the problem of cultural heritage, which goes hand in hand with the concept of cultural identity. The cultural heritage is the character of a country's sovereignty and voting against the ratification of this Convention is voting for ourselves; not the League, but Italians themselves! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Think about it. In particular, I would like to address those Members who had not read, not ratified, but the Faro Convention, in particular the articles that have already been mentioned by my fellow Members. I don't want to do numbers; I remember only the 7th, the 15th and the 16th. I appeal to you who have not read those articles: attention, it is a political project that tramples on the cultural identity of our country. It does not benefit from any assets other than that of a certain structure. Europe's concept is broad and different: there is Europe structure - the European Union and the European Commission - that we strongly criticize; then there is the cultural Europe, that of the Western countries, that have created with the Magna Charta Libertatum of England the concept of democracy, with the Roman Empire the concept of law, with classical Greece the philosophy and the search for truth, truth and good. And do we want to demand that the land of immigration, as is Europe, on the part of absolutely incompatible societies, can defend itself in the current marasma with the Lighthouse Convention? We're opening the doors to the barbarians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are opening the door to the destruction of our values. Values that are not of the League, because Marx was also European (it was German), and his philosophy is part, despite me, because ideologically he is at the opposite of what I think, he is part of the European cultural heritage, and he speaks of atheism, of the liberation of peoples from the opium of peoples, which is religion. I am a Catholic and I ask Italy to recognize the Catholic roots; I ask Europe to recognize its Christian roots and I do not tolerate them and I cannot think that anyone here will vote so that not Europeans, but newcomers may be able to control the cultural significance of our countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Europe is one and multiple. And let us not play, ladies and gentlemen, on the ambivalent meaning of the European Union and Europe in a geopolitical or geographical and cultural sense: these are different concepts. For these reasons I end by announcing once again the strongly opposed vote of the League and I invite all of you to reflect and not to follow Group doctrines, because the only thing you have to follow is your heart and faith in your values, if you still have them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u76	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank and thank the only member of the Government present in this House, the Giallorossi Government, who probably bears witness to the little importance of this measure, as well as to the Members present. I won't steal much time. I would simply like to point out that this measure has arrived in this Chamber very late, so much so that the Convention of Faro, the city of Portugal in which it was signed, had almost become a joke: it seemed like a conjugation of the verb "fare" in the sense of "fare." We have seen it in all its colors: first, the Giallorossi majority has dealt with the problem in the Commission and then, in the Commission, there have been a number of discussions, partly because the Giallorossi majority was not entirely oriented - even if it is shown in this House today - to vote in that direction. We cannot but be in favour of the objective of safeguarding and protecting the artistic and cultural heritage of our Italy; No way. We are a country, a country I would like to say, that it has no raw materials. We have no important landmarks in that respect, but we have the largest raw material in the world, which is our cultural heritage. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the great wealth of a people who have its Jewish-Christian and Greek-Roman roots. We have fecundated Western civilization with our marvels by defending the principles of freedom and above all the principles of love. We are here now and we must approve this Convention, but I note some critical points that are obvious and before everyone's eyes. First of all, it is the mountain that gives birth to the mouse, because a million euros put on this project is a really ridiculous figure; something more should have been done and could have done. The other major issue - and that is why we cannot vote for the ratification of this Convention - lies in ambiguity, especially in a measure that is messed up in Articles 4, 15, 16 and 22. These articles do not clearly clarify the orientation of this Convention. So, while we share their values, principles, goals and goals, we realize that the provision has been miswritten and we fear that it will also be declined worse. That is why we think that the only vote that can be expressed at the moment is that of abstention. It is an abstention that I do not know whether to define malevolent or benevolent, given the precedents, given what happened and also seen the orientations obtained by the Democratic Party, for example in the occasion of the last European elections, when one of its exponent, Alessandra Moretti, had gone to the monumental cemetery of Cento, Emilia-Romagna, asking for the crosses to be covered, with tendons. If this is to be the point of arrival of the Convention, we should vote against it. But we want to have a motorbike of hope and we want to hope that the tradition and especially the extraordinary architectural and monumental beauties of Italy can have the role they deserve in the world. Moreover, we have made museums all over the world rich: those who travel around the nations and those who know that when visiting a city it is pleasant to go to a museum, in any museum you will find the extraordinary beauties created by the genius and culture of the Italian people. These are incredible things: we've all made rich, but we can't achieve the same wealth in Italy. Even the museums here, very often, are closed on Sundays and it is a shame. We can sign as many conventions as we want in Faro, but we have problems. If our business card, for example, in the capital, which has extraordinary beauties, is that of the garbage we see on the street, it is the bug we meet daily, it is a haunted city, in many neighborhoods, by rats, we certainly do not have a nice business card and we do not return home the tourists with a nice memory of our wonderful capital. I hope and hope that tomorrow, in Italy, there will be no iconoclastic fury of a minority; I hope and hope that we will be able to enhance and sublime our heritage; I hope and hope that we can even put it on income. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I am voting in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u79	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I will begin my speech by recalling part of the speech by the rapporteur, Mr Alfieri, whom I thank for the cooperative spirit and the willingness with which we have worked on the amendments to the text of the law ratifying the Convention under consideration. Senator Alfieri reminds us that the genesis of the Convention dates back to the aftermath of the Balkan conflict and to the maturation of the awareness of the fundamental role that history and cultural heritage linked to it have in the construction of bridges, systems of shared and respected values, indispensable for the development of a peaceful coexistence and integration processes, animated, even in difficulties, by the search for principles and values shared and not by the identification of enemies. I have made this necessary premise, because I believe it is a fundamental premise, since this morning, in this House, I heard very worrying speeches, which would like to make culture a land of confrontation and not a place of encounter, as is the objective of the Framework Convention in our examination and of other conventions, which have been transposed by the Italian Parliament. I know it well: I am a grown person, from a young age, with the culture of travel, exploration and knowledge of different cultures and languages. This makes me a person who completely rejects the disvalues linked to a racist approach and fear towards other cultures. [[Applause from the M5S and Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Nugnes]] They are the living testimony of how important it is to cultivate culture and growth in shared cultural heritages in order to promote a peaceful and harmonious coexistence of the people and not to foment fears, fears and divisions to feed basins of electoral consensus. In fact, Article 4 (b) of the Convention refers to the common heritage of Europe and not to Western heritage. In fact, if that were not the case, it would not be understood how the Convention could have been signed by countries throughout the Mediterranean area, some certainly not located in the geographical West as we understand it. In this article, in fact, the reference is respect for cultural heritage and consequently the common heritage of Europe. The Convention highlights the value and potential of cultural heritage as a lasting resource for the quality of life and identifies the right to cultural heritage, a right not yet guaranteed and protected in this country despite the richness of its heritage, recognizing individual and collective responsibility towards this heritage. The text, therefore, directs the participating countries to put in place all the initiatives to promote an awareness and a sense of responsibility that are necessary and indispensable for the protection of our cultural heritage, because only with the awareness and promotion of an individual love for him will it be possible to guarantee to this country the protection of the same. In this direction there is another important direction contained in the Convention, that is to promote more and more close contact between knowledge and training with respect to our cultural heritage, which are fundamental if we think, for example, of the policies of weakening the teaching of the history of art within our schools. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rojc]] The text, therefore, promotes a shared responsibility towards our heritage and connotes the patrimony community as a group of people who value that heritage, that is, asks us citizens to be sentinels, to be the first guardians of our cultural heritage. I do not understand the concerns that have been raised, or I understand them, and for that reason I have worked with the rapporteur, Mr Alfieri, to raise some of the concerns that have been raised and that, frankly, from the knowledge of the fundamental legal elements, were not, in my opinion, founded. Therefore, I did not worry about adding and strengthening certain elements within the draft law ratifying this Convention. One of these concerns was the promotion and proper recognition of professional figures. We have raised these concerns and we have ensured that there is a mention within the draft law ratifying this Convention precisely to safeguard the professional figures involved in this field. Another concern that had been pointed out to us was the scope for action and applicability of this Convention. It must be assumed that this is a framework convention and, as such, it does not define direct obligations, but guidelines and prompts policies, objectives, leaving full sovereignty to a state in putting in place all the legislative initiatives necessary for the pursuit of these objectives, which I challenge anyone to say that they are not noble objectives to be pursued. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let us clear the field of disinformation and demagogy that would like a transfer of sovereignty of our country, we do not know what other legal system, because in any case the Framework Convention interposes between our legal system and what is the legal lighthouse of our system, which is our Constitutional Charter, which can never be surpassed by this Convention and within which borders the legislator has been called so far to carry out its legislative action and will continue to be called in that direction. The Convention, therefore, does not override and endanger the lighthouse - excuse the pun - which should always illuminate the legislative prerogative of this Parliament. I believe that it can be said that the field is cleared also from the concerns advanced regarding a possible disvalue or a possible mortification of the professional figures: indeed, this Convention must encourage us to protect them more and more and to fight so that in this country is promoted volunteering within the perimeter of the valorization and the employment of professionalism and skills for the protection and the valorization of our heritage. Moreover, it would be paradoxical that in a country like ours the legislator did not worry to guarantee it, since we have degree courses aimed at creating professional figures and we are therefore obliged to create work and employment basins such as not to let us escape these beautiful professionalism, these skills, these brains present also in the world of cultural goods. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] We have also cleared the field of concerns related to the transfer of sovereignty or the trespassing of the guidelines - which are not obligations, I repeat - contained in this Convention on rights guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement, as it has already done in the 7th Commission, will renew its vote in favour of the ratification of this Convention, with the awareness that, by indicating guidelines, this Convention calls us to a much more important obligation. There is no perfect standard, there is an effective standard, where it is based on strong values and this Convention invites us to recover, establish and consolidate those strong values on which every standard can rest and not unfold those negative effects that could be feared. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u80	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education John Maynard Keynes in Castel Maggiore, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u81	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 257 and 702, with the following title: "Ratification and implementation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, made at Faro on 27 October 2005" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The work of the morning ended in this way. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the usual question time session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u82	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Laniece has the right to explain question 3 01172 on the provision of incentives for small hydroelectric power stations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u83	Mr President, Minister, the first draft of the electricity incentive decree from renewable sources, known as the RES 1 Ministerial Decree, contained measures in favour of small-scale hydroelectric power plants, up to 220 Kilowatts. Following the interlocations with the European Commission and the deepenings carried out by the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in the text finally issued by the Ministry of Economic Development on 4 July 2019, the incentive measures in favour of small hydroelectric power plants have unfortunately been expelled. In view of the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council last announced in his inauguration speech the Commission's will to take measures to combat climate change and promote the use of renewable energy through the promotion of green measures, which should, among other things, also contain measures in favour of renewable energy sources, it wonders whether the Minister in charge is aware of the reasons that have definitively led to the removal of the incentive rules in favour of small hydro power stations mentioned in the preamble and what measures may be envisaged within the measures announced by the Government for the protection of the environment and sustainable development in order to encourage and support small productions of renewable sources with particular reference to mountain areas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u84	Mr President, in thanking you and the questioners, I will steal thirty seconds at the time of the reply to tell you that it is an emotion to give a speech for the first time in this House on this side, looking towards this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to thank all my fellow Members, without distinction, for every political force, of majority and opposition, which in these first days I believe have represented me, in their greetings, also some attestation of personal esteem, which I hope to deserve in the continuation of this parliamentary term. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] In the premises of the act under discussion, the interrogating senators report that originally the scheme of decree for the incentive of electricity produced from renewable sources (the so-called RES Ministerial Decree 1) contained incentive measures for small hydroelectric power plants (up to 220 KW). They also represent that in the text of the Ministerial Decree then issued, on 4 July 2019, following the intercourse with the European Commission and the deepenings carried out by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, these incentive measures have been expunged. In this respect, it should be noted that the complex investigation carried out by the competent offices of the Ministry of Economic Development concerning the requirements for the stimulation of energy produced by small hydroelectric power stations has been carried out not exactly as described by the interrogators. At first, a very restrictive view had prevailed, limiting the eligibility for incentives only to hydroelectric plants that did not give rise to additional withdrawals from water bodies. Subsequently, however, also following the comparison with the European Commission, the aforementioned Ministerial Decree of 4 July 2019 provided access to incentives also for plants with derivation concessions still complying with the 2017 guidelines issued by the Ministry of the Environment, the protection of the territory and the sea, in implementation of the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC). In this way, the scope of potential beneficiaries has been widened, so that the power quotas for this technology, which are eligible for incentives, have been increased accordingly. In the published version of the decree in question, hydro-electric plants which make withdrawals, including those of power falling within the indicated band, i.e. small power plants, have the possibility of access to these measures, after verification of compliance with the so-called water directive, as provided for by the Community framework for State aid in the field of energy and the environment. The limitation to the incentives for new hydroelectric plants responds in fact to the need to contemper the interest of the small producers to the access to the incentives, without however creating environmental damage to the bodies of water, as reported also by the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. Therefore, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economic Development will continue its commitment to support and encourage all enterprises operating in the field of renewable sources, including small productions in mountain areas, by taking any useful initiative in this regard. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u85	I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u86	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister, to whom I wish the Group of the European People's Party a good job on the upcoming important events and the challenges ahead. It is clear that in the coming months we will check with small producers the answers you have given us. What I can say is that the hydroelectric sector, for us in the mountains, is fundamental and important. There is absolutely no will to exploit the territory in a negative way. We want to see in hydropower a real opportunity to develop our realities and, above all, to consider green energy, an absolutely clean energy source. It will therefore be our concern to monitor closely the development of this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u87	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-01164 on the condition of Ferrosud SpA, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u88	Mr President, Minister, Ferrosud SpA in Matera is a company of mechanical constructions in the iron and steel sector and of rotabili renovations, which in the past has offered work to many Lucanian citizens and which, in the most recent past, escapes from the agreed budget, has participated in public competitions, awarding them and hiring new staff, so much so as to reach about 100 work units. This company is today under the control of Cometi SpA, which is in extraordinary administration and under the control of the Ministry of Economic Development, which appointed as extraordinary commissioner lawyer Antonio Casilli. On 7 October last, at the Ministry of Economic Development, a table was held between the parties concerned and no response came for an excellent offer of purchase of the shares, nor for the maintenance of the occupational level of Ferrosud SpA. Another company was also present at the table, Ferrocos Srl, which promised instead to present an industrial plan, leaving the railway sector to produce compactors for environmental hygiene. In this way, however, the role of the Extraordinary Commissioner, who should have acted in the interests of the Ministry and creditors to ensure strategic industrial policy choices, as well as the continuation of production, has failed. I ask the Minister to know whether it is the opinion that the work of the extraordinary commissioner, Mr Antonio Casilli, must be verified in order to safeguard the interests of Cometi SpA and, consequently, of the creditors of Ferrosud SpA, whose shares are entirely held by Cometi SpA; whether he considers that Ferrosud SpA, with the transfer of the branch of the company to the newly founded Ferrocos Srl, is able to continue in its industrial production, guaranteeing the employment level of the approximately 90 units in staff; whether he does not believe that he must verify whether the offices of the Ministry, on October 7, have assessed the goodness of the lease operation, expected that Ferrocos Srl has committed itself to employ only a part of the staff of Ferrosud SpA; if it does not therefore consider entrusting a new Commissioner with a task so that new data can be acquired and evaluated more profitably for a more effective industrial plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u89	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u90	Mr President, as the honourable Member pointed out, Ferrosud SpA is a company engaged in the construction of steel carriages, located in Matera, and has a unique know-how in this area. The company now owes Cometi SpA in extraordinary administration, which holds 47,500 shares. The question at issue is whether the extraordinary commissioner of Cometi SpA has rented the branch of the company to Ferrocos Srl, instead of accepting the offer - which had come before that decision - for the purchase of the shares of Ferrosud SpA. In this respect, I represent that, in the context of the liquidation operations of Cometi SpA, the action for revocation of the transfer of the aforementioned shares, which were then transferred to Mr Dario Malena, was brought before the Court of Arezzo. The court of Arezzo, by judgment of first instance, sentenced the court to return the above actions. Mr Dario Malena, who is still pending, appealed against this judgment. The Commissioner informed that at the last hearing all the parties intervened and the judge postponed the same hearing to 22 October 2019, in order to allow the replies. With specific reference to the question put by the Senator, I would point out that, during 2019, the extraordinary administration procedure of Cometi SpA received a proposal from Mr Malena, by which he offered the payment of a sum against the waiver by Cometi SpA for the effects of the judgment delivered by the court of Arezzo. For the evaluation of the same proposal, further details were requested from the Extraordinary Commissioner. In the more detail, a proposal was made for the purchase of the share package. On this purchase proposal the extraordinary commissioner (also on the basis of a legal opinion) has expressed himself, who has emphasized that "to date, the acts of cession of the share package... still have to be considered opposable to the procedure (for the slope of the appeal judgment), with consequent impossibility to place for sale the share package ". Moreover, during the last table of confrontation between the parties, which took place on October 7th at the Mise, it was noted that the industrial plan of Ferrosud SpA was not yet ready and that the same would be presented in joint examination between the companies Ferrocos Srl, Ferrosud SpA and the trade union organizations at the meeting that was held yesterday at the headquarters Confapi of Matera; consequently, it was decided to convene the table again in the shortest possible time. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Development will not only continue to monitor, through its competent offices, the work of the Commissioners, but will also make all appropriate assessments when updating the table. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u91	Minister, I would like your work and the offices of your Ministry to carefully evaluate all the passages that have taken place, because there was a first offer from Malena society and on 6 May, at the Ministry, a report was also filed. At that meeting, the Commissioner had not objected to any of the procedures which he also referred to in the Arezzo Court. When a second offer was made by other operators in Matera, the Commissioner suddenly decided to ask a professor, who gave an opinion, when he could well have heard the state bill and the monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u92	Senator Urso has the right to explain the question 3-01168 on the resolution of the different business crisis tables opened at the Ministry of Economic Development, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u93	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, I join in the praise, not only virtual, of the Movimento 5 Star Group for the debut of the Minister for Economic Development, well knowing what a disastrous legacy it is in his hands, as shown by the previous debate and the question that we put to him on the 183 crisis tables that would be, from news reports, in the hands of his Ministry. I say it would be because the former Minister - his political leader, Minister Patuanelli - during a previous question time in Parliament said that it was not possible to provide an official number of open crisis tables, in the sense that his ministry was not in a position to provide an official number of national crisis tables. And that says a lot. We're talking about at least 300,000 people at risk. At the same time, as a demonstration of this, at the time of the conversion into Parliament of the decree saves companies, it was clear to all that what was contained there - the solution, as Mr Di Maio announced, of the disputes ex Ilva and Whirlpool - was by no means a solution. In fact, as demonstrated by the fair and legitimate strikes and demonstrations of Whirlpool workers, that decree-law was also completely ineffective. You are also faced with the dramatic case of Alitalia; a case that is clear to all, which can lead to serious consequences in the Italian tourism sector. But it also has in front of a Region - and on this we have introduced a specific question - like Umbria - fortunately, unlike other Italian territories, it will be able to express itself in the next few days - where there are many national crisis tables. I am referring to Antonio Merloni, Isotta Fraschini, Cementir, the Novelli group, Treofan, Mercatone, the AST of Terni: the integration fund increases by 18 percent, the extraordinary integration fund increases by 70 percent. It is a region in which the inefficiency of governments in reconstruction has added to the inefficiency of governments in giving industrial solutions to crisis tables. We ask you, Minister, what policy you intend to implement in order to give a breakthrough to the Ministry after the disastrous start in this legislature of the previous Minister, who has greatly aggravated the industrial crisis in the country, and what solutions it can give to the crisis tables, also on the industrial front and not merely an extension of Cassa Integrazione, when possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u94	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogating senators for their questions. I need to read some data. It is true that there is a difficulty in quantifying the crisis tables, for a simple reason: there is no procedure for access to a crisis table or an exit procedure; it is not like the Prodi law or the Marzano law, which establish the requirements to activate an extraordinary administration. In addition to the crisis tables, there are about 121 groups covered by the Prodi law and about 26 groups with 229 companies covered by the Marzano law: we can go into detail. In the last three weeks I have received messages from regional councillors, individual companies, individual union groups, who are dealing with dismissals, who are asking to activate a table at Mise. This is a fact, unfortunately, given the economic situation of the country in recent years (not of the last six months, but of the last maybe ten years), very frequent. This is why it is difficult to identify a precise number of crisis tables, precisely because there is neither an incoming nor outgoing procedure. Anyway, let's talk about the currently active crisis tables. I quote the Whirlpool case as an example: it is a crisis table that had led to the agreement, with an industrial plan signed in December 2018 (so not ten years ago); that plan was signed; the company should have done business and the State should have done its part. Could it have been considered concluded? Certainly not, because there was monitoring of everything the company should have done and what the state was doing. But the table has reopened because the company has decided to withdraw from one of the commitments entered into in the industrial plan and intends to undertake a procedure for the transfer of a part of its production. How do we view that table? Interrupted for four months? A one-of-a-kind table? That is why it is difficult to say numerically how many tables are active. However, 158 tables are currently active and some 200,000 workers are involved. The crisis decree does not intervene with specific measures ad hoc, but basically creates a structure within the Mise that did not exist before - to date there is not, because it is created by the decree-law - just to follow the tables that obviously the economic crises of recent years have opened, in numerically increasing terms every day. The fundamental component of the decree-law, therefore, concerns not so much the other parts of the text, which are certainly useful, but the structure that I will need and will serve to manage and follow the crisis tables. But the real problem isn't. We must create conditions so that no more crisis tables are opened. We must create the conditions for the country to start again to produce and create jobs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We need to create conditions and conditions in a word: an industrial plan. This country needs to start thinking about its industrial plan again. I think we need to act on some ideas and some parts. The first part: Enterprise 4.0 worked in the budget law; we know that we will be able to secure the same company 4.0 balances; perhaps we need to adjust some measures to make them more attractive to small and medium-sized enterprises, to link more to innovation. But above all we must ensure that, for at least three years, there is the same structural approach as Enterprise 4.0. We cannot arrive every time in December with entrepreneurs who do not know what will be renewed the following year. This is a key point in enabling entrepreneurs to plan their investments. However, we must realize the transition of so many companies that can change their productive activity; we will make a table, called transition 4.0, to understand how to adapt the tools already available to the Ministry of Economic Development, to offer to the enterprises and to proceed with them. We need to think about an automotive table, and we are doing it because it is a key sector for our economy. We need to talk with the entrepreneurs to understand the needs of the sector, also in this case in the energy transition that will lead us to have a much larger electric or hybrid fleet in the coming years. Finally, I would like to focus on access to credit. A public investment bank is crucial. Today the cost of money is so low that it is better not to lend it, but to invest it, being there so much liquidity, in the financial markets that deal with other activities. To lend money to the bank no longer pays and therefore no longer does so; it must then be the State to guarantee and offer its liquidity to the entrepreneurs. I hope that it will be possible to discuss this in more detail later, because it is difficult to do so in three minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u95	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u96	Mr President, I would sincerely like to thank the Minister for the honesty of the answer, for having clearly described the confusion that the Ministry holds, which all citizens can notice, since there is a website of the Ministry that lists the active tables and their conclusions. If citizens connect to that site, they can read that for each table gathered this year - about seventy; many less than crises, not even a table for each crisis - the conclusion, when expected, is always to start a path for the integration fund. There is never an industrial solution. This is exactly the opposite of what the Minister would like to see in his speech at the beginning of his term of office. Furthermore, Minister, there is nothing about everything you have said in the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document you have just launched in this House. There is no industrial policy, there is no support for development and employment; there is the continuing maintenance of citizenship income with the distortions it has already brought. Citizenship income is not an industrial policy, but it is exactly the opposite. It is as if you want an industrial crisis in order to send workers to the Cassa Integrazione - I remember that this year the workers in Cassa Integrazione ordinarye have increased by 30% - and from this then bring them to a level of unemployment and, therefore, to the income of citizenship. Your policy is that of aid to the unemployed, and not the creation of development and employment - we hope so - as you said in your speech, but rather the documents of the Ministry and the Government presented in this House. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u97	Senator Vallardi has the right to explain the question 3-01171 on consumer information and protection with regard to the original Italian products, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u98	Mr President, on my own behalf, given the excellent work we have done over the last year and a half - but I think I can do so on behalf of the entire League Group - I too wish our dear Minister Patuanelli every success. I affirm, without irony, that it is a wish for good work that will certainly serve you to recover the year and a half of not work of those who preceded it; if we were in a football game, in the end, as an evaluation, we could definitely say "not received." It is precisely on this subject that our question about Made in Italy is based. Minister Patuanelli, the Italian excellences distinguished by the Made in Italy brand represent an extraordinary competitive lever with high added value for our country. This is also testified by the steady growth of our exports especially in agri-food, where our brands are recognized and appreciated worldwide. However, Made in Italy is a trademark that is at high risk of counterfeiting. This phenomenon, known in agriculture as italian soiling, allows to evoke Italian origin through symbols, names, brands and images that recall in a deceptive way to the Italianness of a food without any connection with our country. The majority of consumers attach significant value to the provision on the label of information relating to the origin of the agri-food products marketed, considering it important to have a correct and complete information framework in order to make a conscious choice. With the aim of making mandatory for specific categories of foods the indication of the place of origin, when there is a connection between certain qualities of the food and its origin, has been introduced article 3-a of Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018, which has been converted into law with amendments from Article 1, paragraph 1, of Law No 12 of 11 February 2019. [[Call the president back.]] The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism then instructed the Institute of Food Market Services (Ismea) to carry out appropriate studies to identify the existence of a proven link between certain food qualities and their origin or origin, and to assess to what extent the indication of the place of origin is perceived as significant, and when its omission is recognised as misleading. The amendment introduced provided for an interministerial decree between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policies, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Health to implement the standard by identifying specific foods for which the place of origin was specified on the label.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u99	Conclude, Senator Vallardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u100	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. After the first two passages, the decree was transmitted to the ministers Centinario, Di Maio and Grillo. I therefore ask you, Mr Patuanelli, if you - we have a lot of confidence in your person - intend to continue the path taken by the previous government in the matter of compulsory labelling, and if you do not consider today to countersign the interministerial decree to protect consumers and, at the same time, to safeguard the agri-food companies of our country, a unique example of quality throughout the world, affected by the spread of the phenomenon of Italian soiling. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u101	I call on the interrogating senators and the Minister to respect the timing, given the television coverage. The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u102	Mr President, I will be very respectful of the times. I thank Senator Vallardi and answer the punctual question regarding the signing of the aforementioned decree. It is not possible to sign this decree today, but the Directorate-General has informed me that these days there are meetings between administrations also in order to identify the specific categories of food for which it is compulsory to indicate the place of origin, as well as to analyse the final text of the decrees with respect to the European Commission - since it is in its prerogatives. It is really a matter of days, after which I will take care to sign this decree together with the other competent administrations. In general, with regard to labelling, I believe that we can discuss many things, but not one and I have already said so even when I recently happened to be present at the Village Coldiretti. It is intolerable that I am not able to know exactly what my children are eating today, so I think it is necessary to proceed with food labelling. We must, however, put companies and processors in a position to do so, and that is not always easy. We cannot take measures to the detriment of the production capacity of transformers. On this aspect, among other things, the Mise is carrying out a very important experiment through the use of the blockchain. It may seem absurd to think that the blockchain data structure has something to do with what we eat, but it can actually be a product certification tool and how much inside the container, very easy for the user, i.e. the consumer, to use through simple QR code devices; in this way we offer the guarantee to the company to be able to easily tell what is contained exactly within a food. Transformers do not always know this, because foodstuffs come from different sectors, so it is not always so easy to identify the product. This should certainly be a future path that can solve the problem. [[Call the president back.]] For the rest, the Directorate-General for Combating Counterfeiting-Italian Patents and Trade Marks Office is committed to ensuring the protection of Made in Italy and to ensuring that Italian sounding phenomena are in decline and not on the increase, as unfortunately the data indicate. I have other points to make, but the President has already referred to me once and, knowing him, I do not dwell on this answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u103	Senator Vallardi has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u104	Mr Patuanelli, if this is the case, I can only thank you on behalf of the League Group. The defence of Made in Italy and the fight against Italian sounding are a battle that the League has been carrying out for over ten years. In the last year and a half we have committed ourselves and managed to approve a decree-law that surely protects the made in Italy. So right now, I can't help but get back to her and rely on her words. However, I would like to use the remaining minute of time, changing completely the subject, to tell you whether, in the next Council of Ministers, you will be able to inform Minister Costa of the difficulties caused by the Asian bug. Regions like Emilia Romagna and Veneto need the so-called habitat decree to be deliberated by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vallardi, I invite you to stick to this question. VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in conclusion, I would just like to make an appeal for the representative of the Government to call on Minister Costa to approve this decree absolutely, because our farmers are really on their knees: we rely on you, Mr Patuanelli. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u105	Senator Testor has the right to explain the question 3-01167 on the measures to support Italian tourism companies damaged by the failure of the Thomas Cook group, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u106	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the failure of the British giant Thomas Cook, one of the main European tour operators, who is liable to its suppliers for more than 2 billion euros, many small Italian companies will face a situation of serious difficulty, determined by the failure to pay the services rendered in the summer of 2019 and by the cancellation of the orders related to the coming months, in order to meet which significant economic commitments had been made. According to estimates by the major trade associations in the hotel sector, there are currently more than 4,000 hotels on our national territory that would suffer a damage ranging from 400 to 600 million euros, with obvious negative repercussions in economic terms also on the induced linked to these accommodation facilities. The Spanish Government has announced a plan of about 300 million euros to help the tourism sector contain the effects of the failure of the British tour operator Thomas Cook. This is a plan that the Spanish Government has developed in just one week to deal with the urgency of bankruptcy. The amount allocated would serve not only as a cover in view of the sharp drop in arrivals, amounting to about 700,000 tourists in total for the near future, but also as a support for losses resulting from missed payments. Part of the resources of the Spanish plan will be devoted to the promotion and improvement of air connections, in the form of incentives to airlines to operate flights covering the financial gap left by the travel company. In Italy, in the absence of urgent interventions, there is a high probability that a domino effect will arise, resulting in the failure of the accommodation structures exposed to Thomas Cook and, cascade, their suppliers, without forgetting the possible consequences for the workers who serve in such companies. In view of the long time, which will characterize the bankruptcy procedure and the costs that will have to be faced, in order to try to recover at least in part the credits, starting legal actions in the various countries in which the associates of the group operated, we believe that it is very urgent to anticipate the activation of a support in the form of tax credit, of amount proportional to the credit boasted to Thomas Cook, in order to avoid that the companies go into liquidity crisis, that the same will obviously be obliged to return as soon as they will come into possession of the sums of their due. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Testor. TEXTOR (FI-BP). Another aspect that could partially alleviate the state of crisis of the affected companies is the definition of a tax system per cash, for all invoices issued and to be issued against Thomas Cook, in order to prevent companies from having to anticipate a tax that they have not collected and that they may never cash. It is also appropriate to ensure the necessary resources to ensure adequate incentives for all businesses in the tourist-hotel sector in order to make investments, including through the refinancing of tax credit. Early intervention would allow thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises to honour their commitments with suppliers and employees and to face the upcoming winter tourist season, in the awareness of continuing to offer a service to their customers. It is therefore asked to know what initiatives, for its own competence, the Minister in address intends to take, in order to safeguard the work of thousands of tourist-receptive structures affected by the failure of the tourism company Thomas Cook. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u107	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the interrogating senators. This question concerns the tourist-receptive structures affected by the failure of the tourism company Thomas Cook. In this regard, first of all, I would like to point out that the functions exercised in the field of tourism will again be transferred to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (Mibact), with effect from 1 January 2020. For this reason, the Mibact was heard, who informed us that he had already started a working table with the main professional associations in the tourism sector and that he had collected the requests made by them, in order to prevent the risks raised by this question. Indeed, in the state it is not yet possible to carry out an exact quantification of the damage that the event could cause in our country. The meeting with the operators was, however, functional in the study of possible initiatives in support of the sector concerned. During the meeting, some of the intervention measures requested by the interviewing senators were examined in support of companies affected by the bankruptcy of the Thomas Cook company, among which I recall: the temporary tax credit of an amount proportional to the credit claimed to the failed company or, alternatively, the modification of the deductibility of the taxes on the damage; the possibility of a VAT exemption on invoices not paid by the failed company (proposed that is currently under consideration by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which will have to express its technical assessment on the point); urgent interventions for the workers, also through the activation of social shock absorbers. It is clear that the measures referred to will also have to be examined with the involvement of other relevant administrations (including the MEF, the Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the INPS), and the compatibility of these with the European State Aid Framework will have to be assessed, but the issue is already on the Ministry's agenda for cultural goods and activities and for tourism. With regard specifically to the Ministry of Economic Development, it is emphasized once again that it is yet another broad table of corporate crises and upon request will be promptly activated all the useful initiatives and competence of the Mise - as for example - the establishment of a special fund aimed at encouraging the enterprises of the field, also in a perspective of prevention of a possible state of crisis of the Italian enterprises hit by the bankruptcy of the tourist company Thomas Cook, as well as the convocation of a table of confrontation with all the interested parties. Compared to the question of the fund, partly to supplement the response given to Senator Urso earlier, since it is always a business crisis, I would like to say that if we had previously some tools to put in place immediately when a crisis is triggered, it would be easier to act in the context of the crisis itself. And on this front too, we are trying to understand what are the best tools to be put in place today to better address future crises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u108	Senator Testor has the right to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u109	I thank the Minister and must say that I can be satisfied with the answer. Moreover, the example of the Spanish Government that I brought wanted to be an incentive to find a solution that could also be shared by all other European countries, because the crisis has affected the whole of Europe and, therefore, is quite vast. It is clear that Mibact and Mise must work together. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to ask you to have an involvement at this table so that each of us can indicate instruments and make suggestions to ensure that the companies involved can return to the market and be operational. As we know, the tourism sector is a locomotive of the Italian economy and it is therefore important to ensure its survival, because we are talking about likely failures. As a result, careful attention must be paid to the system and businesses. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u110	Senator Ferrari has the power to explain the question 3-01173 on the critical profiles of the recent legislation on interventions for energy redevelopment and anti-seismic, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u111	Mr President, I would not like to turn this question time into a celebratory sitting. However, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I cannot help but wish Minister Patuanelli good work. His competence, his seriousness and, above all, his respect for the House in which we all sit will surely be at his side also in his new adventure and this guarantees us a lot, as he has guaranteed us in recent months, despite being on different political sides. Minister, the question we are submitting to you concerns, as you know, the growth decree, which introduced new ways of benefiting from incentives for efficiency, energy efficiency and building renovation last summer. In particular, paragraphs 1 to 3 of Article 10 of the Decree-Law itself have provided for the possibility for the person who incurs the expenses for interventions of that type to receive an advance contribution from the supplier who carried out the intervention itself, in the form of a discount. This contribution shall be recovered by the supplier in the form of a tax credit to be used as compensation. Well, the effect of this rule has been favored by many citizens and some medium-sized enterprises, while a large part of the small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector has seen it as a very serious problem to be resolved urgently. Small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector complain about the problem of the financial sustainability of the costs arising from the discount on the fees due. Small and medium-sized enterprises themselves, as you know, Minister, have initiated proceedings in the European Commission following the ruling of the Competition and Market Authority, which has shown that the changes introduced by the Growth Decree appear likely to create restrictions on competition to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises, favouring only larger economic operators. We believe that the legislator has the task of finding a solution shared between all the actors involved and, at the same time, that it is necessary to calibrate well, from the regulatory point of view, the intervention introduced with the decree growth, finding a solution that allows to keep alive the spirit of that norm without causing further damage to the small and medium-sized enterprises of the field and therefore reset the distortions in course to date. We hope - the ongoing discussion on the corporate crisis decree has already animated this debate - that there will be the immediate opening of a table involving all the parties involved and that there will be an appropriate regulatory solution to all the problems that have emerged in recent months, a solution that we hope can be found already in the coming weeks, perhaps during the examination of the budget law, which is at the door. We ask you, on all these grounds, what steps you intend to take. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u112	I thank the interrogators and Senator Ferrari for his words. I would just like to give a few figures first. The ecobonus, to date one of the main incentive mechanisms to activate investments in the field of energy efficiency in buildings, has stimulated investments over a four-year period for more than 16 billion euros and is more than 35 in the last ten years. Of the approximately 1.8 million interventions, 85% grabbed individual technologies, mainly window frames, thus replacing parts of the building, air conditioning systems and solar screens, accounting for 65% of the total investments deriving from the ecobonus. This is to frame what we are talking about, compared to the preferential systems, ecobonus and the different formulations they have had in recent years. One thing is clear: the spirit of the norm was to continue to intervene in order to create these results, but certainly it has produced a negative result on a part of productive activities, which moreover is the one prevailing in our country, because we know very well that our productive fabric consists mainly of small, mini and micro enterprises (more than 94 percent of our production capacity comes from companies that have less than 50 employees). The rule has caused this problem for two main reasons. The first reason is that large groups, when it comes to individual interventions on buildings, such as the installation of photovoltaic systems, manage to apply a lower price than the small company, which has less order and less organization. The second reason, of course, is the tax capacity, that is, the deduction in several years has an effect, the discount in invoice another: the company is in the absence of immediate liquidity and therefore, of course, the small and medium-sized enterprises have found themselves in difficulty. There is therefore a clear need to amend the text. There will of course be a parliamentary path to the conversion of the so-called crisis decree. I believe that there is a need for reasoning that leads us to find the financial instruments to accompany the amendment of the rule. I am also convinced, as I said on the first day of the government's inauguration, that I must hear the various stakeholders, and therefore all the professional associations of the different sectors. Today, therefore, I say that we must activate a table of comparison in order to arrive at the best solution, because the ratio of the norm and the spirit with which it was adopted were not negative: probably, the poor intercourse has led to a negative result. So I would not like to repeat the error and tell you today that the solution is 'A', 'B' and 'C'. Instead, we decide the best solution together with the trade associations. Then, for the budget law, there is also the parliamentary path. The respect that I have had for this House as the leader of a parliamentary group and which you mentioned just now, Senator Ferrari, I also have as a representative of the Government: there is the dignity of this House to make its own proposals. We, as a government, will certainly advance our proposals, but we will also listen to those of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u113	I give the floor to Senator Collina to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u114	Minister, we are fully satisfied with your response, because you have shown full awareness of the dimension of the problem and the reality that exists in our country regarding the construction sector, as well as of what has been the history of the sector in recent years, which has gone through a very long period of crisis. Thanks to the actions of energy redevelopment and restructuring, facilitated and facilitated by tax discounts, the sector has managed to overcome this phase, even if it is still facing difficulties today. Certainly the choices that have been made have been decisive in order to be able to give a future to the sector which is made, as you said, Minister, of small and medium-sized enterprises, which also have difficulties in accessing credit. By creating difficulties in managing liquidity, with the initiative contained in the growth decree, nothing has been done but trigger a negative and dangerous spiral for many small businesses. We believe that the initiative you have announced is absolutely positive and that it must give equally positive results in order to rebalance this situation, which, while starting with positive objectives, has created this type of difficulty. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u115	Senator Girotto has the right to explain the question 3-01170 on compensation measures for energy and anti-seismic redevelopment operations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u116	Dear Minister, a greeting and a wish on my part, on behalf of the entire Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism of the Senate: of course the question I am about to explain is from the whole Commission and all the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Star Group. Article 10 of the so-called growth decree introduces the possibility for the entity that incurs expenses for the interventions of energy efficiency and the reduction of the seismic risk to receive an advance contribution from the supplier that has carried out the intervention, in the form of a discount on the consideration due (the so-called invoice discount). The contribution shall be recovered by the supplier in the form of a similar amount of tax credit to be used as compensation in five equal annual instalments. Suppliers may transfer the tax credit to their suppliers of goods and services. In the same Article 10 it is also possible for the beneficiaries of the deduction for works aimed at achieving energy savings, with particular regard to the installation of plants based on the use of renewable energy sources, to transfer their credit to the suppliers of goods and services necessary for the realization of the aforementioned interventions. Such entities may, in turn, transfer the credit to their suppliers, with the exclusion of further transfers by the latter, while the transfer of the credit to credit institutions and financial intermediaries is excluded. These changes have created a number of challenges in the implementation phase, giving rise to serious concerns in small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. Some of these companies, associated with the National Confederation of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (NAC), have initiated proceedings before the European Commission and also the Competition and Market Authority, in its report to the Government and Parliament of June 2019, has shown that the rule appears likely to create restrictions of competition in the supply to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises, favouring only larger economic operators. Therefore, an amendment to the rule in Article 10 of Decree-Law No 34 converted by Law No 58 of 2019 is necessary and no longer deferred. It is therefore asked to know whether the Minister does not consider it appropriate to provide urgently for an ad hoc legislative intervention, aimed at overcoming the problems raised and whether he does not consider it appropriate to convene a table with all the operators in the sector urgently, in order to arrive at a rapid solution to this very serious problem which affects tens of thousands of professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Girotto, all the interrogating senators and the entire Movimento 5 Star Group. This question takes up the issues raised by the previous question. Obviously, I repeat the desire of the Ministry of Economic Development to convene the table mentioned in the question to identify the best possible solutions, taking into account the needs of that part of the productive sector that has been touched by this measure that, I would like to reiterate further, had a positive ratio and stimulus of some building interventions related to energy efficiency. I believe that there are two plans: one is a financial plan, that is to say the modification of this forecast which allows, by means of a financial operation, to ensure sustainability for small businesses that are not large. On the other hand, there may also be an interest in maintaining some parts of the measure as it is, but not exclusively linked to single interventions on the building, such as the classic photovoltaic panel, because, in the case of a more complete intervention of energy redevelopment of the building it is evident that there is a direct involvement of the supply chain and therefore also of the less structured companies, that could benefit from it. I repeat, however, that these are all guidelines that can be assessed, but the assessment must be made in the appropriate forums, that is, at that table which will certainly be convened, where we will find all the solutions and, of course, in the Parliamentary House when examining any kind of measure, the House will decide. I believe that the budget law is the most appropriate measure to propose and produce a complete and appropriate amendment to Article 10 of the growth decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u118	I give the floor to Senator Girotto to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u119	Minister, I welcome the commitment you have made and the clear desire to resolve the problems that have been raised. On the other hand, you had already demonstrated this a great deal a few months ago, by filing your own bill on this subject, which immediately stimulated the debate. I am sure that among the priorities of the budget law and through the direct involvement of businesses, craftsmen and other interested parties, at the technical table of which you anticipated the constitution will find the most functional solution to guarantee the direct benefits of consumers without, however, hindering the participation in the market of all the entrepreneurial actors and, as we have said, especially the small ones. On the part of the 10th Commission and all the Members involved in this matter, I assure you of the utmost cooperation, including through the deal that we have already prepared on this subject and which we will examine in the coming weeks and which will therefore end, largely before the budget law, with the relevant resolution of political direction to your Ministry. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u120	Senator Vono has the right to explain question 3-01169 on the financing of the National Civil Service Fund for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u121	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, having said that with Legislative Decree No. 40 of 2017, implementing Delegate Act No. 106 of 2016, issued during the Pro-Temporary Government Renzi, civil service has become universal, in order to accommodate all the requests of young people who by voluntary choice intend to make an experience of great formative and civil value, that can provide them with skills useful for the entry into the world of work, with the Law of Stability of 2016 were allocated to the National Fund for Civil Service as much as 115 million euros, while in the following years these funds have been diminished, so much so that they have to be integrated with resources from other administrations and savings from previous programmings. Given that the Council of Ministers of the previous Government, on 30 July 2019, on a proposal from the same President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, approved a draft law introducing provisions in favour of universal civil service to ensure state support and the continuity of the total contingent of voluntary operators to be started in civil service and has foreseen an increase of 70 million euros for the year 2019 of the National Fund for Civil Service (the call published for about 40,000 young people between 18 and 29 years will expire on 17 October at 2 p.m.), it is asked to know what the orientation of the Government will be regarding the allocation of the funds indicated in the aforementioned draft law of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and also if you, which we know is very sensitive to the issue, intend to take as an urgent initiative also the issuing of an additional ban that absorbs the projects already approved. Thank you and good luck. [[Applause from Senator Brilliant.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u122	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking the Senator, first of all I would like to remind you that the budget law for 2018 has provided a budget for the year 2019 for universal civil service of EUR 152,272,678. With the 2019 budget law, the budget for that year was set at around €148 million. To this amount, the EUR 50 million from the Fund for the implementation of the national plan for the social and cultural redevelopment of degraded urban areas was first added, but then deducted EUR 10 million for a provision on the structures of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In this way, for 2019, the total initial appropriation amounts to EUR 188,145,320. This appropriation was further reduced to EUR 187,715.320 as a result of certain provisions. To this sum, some €44 million were added to the expenditure savings of previous financial years. In fact, recapitulating, with respect to the resources initially foreseen by the Government in the fiscal law of 2018 and 2019, that would allow the start in service of about 26,000 volunteers, that is the half of the previous year, the fund has already been increased by about 80 million euros, allowing an increase of 15,000 volunteers. The total availability, equal to 231,765.320 euros, has allowed to insert in the call for 2019, published last 4 September, a total of 39,646 places of young volunteers to be employed in 3,797 projects of universal civil service, to be carried out in Italy and abroad, to which will be added 1,000 places in the call dedicated to large disabled and blind civil assistance projects. As it was recalled, the deadline of the ban has been further extended, precisely to provide for a wide participation of young people, who continue to see in the civil service an extraordinary opportunity both for personal growth and for help towards the country. As far as the use of the 70 million euros indicated for 2019 in the aforementioned bill is concerned, it is the Government's understanding to operate in line with the aforementioned objectives and therefore the immediate availability of the 70 million above mentioned would certainly allow us to make a new additional ban compared to the current one that we will learn to do after the approval, to select another 12,000 volunteers, which would therefore be added to the approximately 40,000 already planned, thus responding positively to the expectations of our young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u124	I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u125	Minister, we are pleased with your reply. We ask you, precisely because of the important words you have spoken, to ensure that the national fund in question can become permanent, in order to give continuity to an extraordinary opportunity for our young people, precisely because the aims are important, as pointed out, first, by Mr Vono and, then, by his words. There is a great deal to be done to help our young people, starting from initiatives, even in the field of work, that can really enable them to make great progress. Then there is another important issue. The extraordinary adjective "universal" finally allows you to overcome some fences and borders, because it addresses all young people, provided that they are resident and regardless of their national identity. This is also a fundamental point. The policies you are dealing with come into full swing with this extraordinary opportunity for growth for our generations. In conclusion, thank you and I also take the opportunity to wish you good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u126	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u129	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, in Lombardy, with a recent regional law, the Regional Control Body (ORAC) has been established, which exists thanks to a truly evanescent regional regulation. The Movimento 5 Stars in the Lombardy Region expressed strong perplexity as ORAC does not have the minimum requirements for a body to combat corruption, starting from the fact of being controlled by the Regional Council, while - for obvious reasons - it should be independent, distinct and distant from those who govern the Region. In addition, we had proposed to maintain the wealth of experience and expertise accumulated by the previous anti-corruption body, so that there was full continuity between the old and the new structure, but we were not heard. Well, to date, the nine members of the ORAC have been appointed, but even before the body started working, the first problems have emerged. In fact, the Regional Council appointed, among others, a General of the Finance Guard and a Colonel of the Carabinieri. Following these appointments, as required by law, permissions were requested from the bodies belonging to the two military in order to be able to serve with the body. The General of the Guard of Finance, seeing himself denied authorization by the inspectorate for the Institutes of the Guard of Finance, announced that he could not accept the assignment. The inspectorate of the Guardia di Finanza has in fact found how - I quote from the excerpts - the performance is unequivocally characterized by the continuity character and for more annuality, (...) can not be found at least one of the requirements previewed for the authorization (...). The amount not irrelevant that would be perceived is such as to characterize alone the activity carried out, in fact, as a work with characteristics of autonomy compared to that carried out with the Body. The Colonel of the Carabinieri, however, despite having received an opinion contrary to the general command of the weapon, has accepted the assignment. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Defence whether the negative opinion expressed by the Carabinieri's Arm is not to be considered as binding in itself, similar to the non-authorization by the Finance Guard and, therefore, if the Colonel is not to be authorized to take office. On the subject, with my colleague Daniela Donno, we have submitted a formal question to the Ministry, whose answer I hope will arrive as soon as possible, because it is really inappropriate that a body that should monitor the good performance of the regional administrative machinery starts already with the doubt that the designated members are not entitled to play that role.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u132	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you today, on behalf of myself, but also of the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage of the Senate, a woman who left us too early, without ever suspending her commitment to culture and her Sicily for a moment. I met Mariarita Sgarlata here in the Senate, as councilwoman of Minister Bonisoli, and immediately I realized that she was an exceptional woman, of a bursting enthusiasm: her commitment as professor of archaeology at the University of Catania, as councilman of cultural heritage and Sicilian identity of the Sicilian Region, as councilwoman of Minister Bonisoli and, therefore, as delegate of the National Institute of the ancient drama of Syracuse, was characterized by the inexhaustible skills, but above all by a smile that could involve everyone. The last time I met her was at the first of "Elena" of Euripides, for the direction of Livermore, in the much loved Siracusa. Those magic moments in which the memory of our past, the beauties of our land and the vision of the saving capacity of art, projected on those ancient stones, will always be linked to that proud smile of his. When we met here in Rome just a year ago, we felt like we were friends forever. Today is the pain of not even knowing that he was ill and of having lost a great person and a great professional, so, in a breath. Hello, Maria Rita, you will miss Sicily, you will miss Italy, you will miss our land that needs, now more than ever, art, culture, passion, humanity. A hug to the family and his beloved son. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Calandrini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u135	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, it is not easy for me, but I would like to say a few words about the figure of Filippo Penati in this House. It is not easy, because Philip was for me - I have no reluctance to say it - something that is very close to a political father. But in this House I think it is right to say two things about Philip, also because many times I thought that there would be Philip in this House, surely there would have been, if his political story and his political history had arrived at the natural conclusion of a path that was born in a great working city like Sesto San Giovanni and within the history of a great party that could identify young figures, raise them and make them great political leaders. That was a great popular story; Filippo was the mayor of that city in the transformation, at the moment when from a great working city he became something else, and he was able to face, as mayor and city councilman, that very difficult transformation. Then, he came out of Sesto San Giovanni and arrived in Milan, the presidency of the Province and then the challenge of Lombardy Region, bringing really - not rhetorically, as is said many times today - the suburbs in the center of the city, in the big metropolis, also annoying many, who did not see well that a man on the periphery could enter the good living rooms of Milan of the bourgeoisie and the great metropolis. His was an extraordinary political journey. Penati was indeed an immense character of Lombard reformism, imposing. He was imposing Philip, as a figure, and he was imposing as a politician. The popular choir that filled the network yesterday would have liked very much; a choir of simple people, militants, women and men who had recognized it, beyond stereotypes. There have been many stereotypes, even in these hours: the sheriff, the Stalingrad of Italy and of course the whole theme of the relationship with justice. We cannot fail to remember that the disease that took him away very soon (too soon) also arises from a terrible judicial and media affair, from which Philip came out head-to-head, because the people who have that history and that popular rooting know how to stay in their community, there have always been, and they know how to react also to the hardships of life. The universe was not generous with Philip Penati from a certain point forward, but Philip Penati, who was a great person, was able to react to the universe. I would like to say to all my colleagues his last words, a few days ago, in which he tells how, in a wheelchair, he was walking around for his Sixth Saint John and realized that he had done too little for the architectural barriers. The last sentence he used was: "I'm wrong." Here, we all learn to say, sometimes, with courage, with a high head, without problems: "I did wrong." [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Calandrini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u138	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to bring to the attention of this House the regrettable situation in which 1,500 Sardinian workers are living today. They are socio-sanitary workers, nurses, drivers and physiotherapists, who for days, since Monday morning, are under the Sardinian Regional Council, camped to protest about the heavy and very serious situation in which they are located. It is the workers of the Italian Spastic Assistance Association (AIAS), also established in Sardinia, an association that deals with the provision of health care services, assisted health residence, rehabilitation and assistance to psychic patients and disabled people: about 3,500 patients spread throughout Sardinia in 52 structures. It is an association founded by a private family, in a private conventional regime with the Region of Sardinia and therefore with the ASL, which since 1967 has managed this service and these structures with public funds; a family and structures that are today adhered to by the judiciary in various criminal proceedings. The employees of this association have been experiencing a dramatic situation for some time now. At the beginning, for months, the amounts due to them for the performance of their work were paid with considerable delay in relation to the maturity of their rights. From April 2019 to today, 1,500 workers are waiting to receive twelve monthly salaries and yet they have continued to provide their work on time. In time, because of this chronic situation, many of them have quit; others continue to protest in the squares and under the regional council, forced to survive and to make the families survive thanks to the help of relatives and friends and to contract loans that they are not even able to repay anymore. Well, despite the intervention of the city council member, the intervention of the regional council, the trade unions, the same family and the prefecture, the situation remained unresolved. It is necessary that President Solinas activates as soon as possible and keeps the promise to make a public race or to entrust the management to a company in house of the Region. For this reason, as a representative of the Sardinian citizens elected in Parliament, I join in the heartfelt appeal of these workers and immediately call on President Solinas and the entire Sardinian Regional Council and the Health Councillor to find a solution that will finally resolve this tragic situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u141	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I rise to pay tribute to a great protagonist in the world of choral music, of Italian choralism. My thanks go to Maestro Bepi De Marzi, musician and composer from Vicenza, who after more than sixty years decides to withdraw from the activity and to dissolve his historic group "I Crodaioli." I believe that the stature of this great character, with a sharp, rough character, like the mountaineers, deserves a speech in this solemn Chamber. Master De Marzi, author of the famous song "Lord of the peaks," has been for decades a point of reference and great supporter of the Italian choral world, in particular of the Alpine arch, and has given us, with his compositions, moments of authentic poetry, telling the mountains, nature, the events of the Alps in wars. In wishing dear master Bepi De Marzi still long and serene life, my hope is that in this retreat from time to time he still wants to give us, with his precious compositions, small jewels that go to embellish our daily journey. Thank you, Master.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u144	ABATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, with great sadness, my speech in this House is to give support and closeness to Mario Luzzi and his family. Mario is the father of Fabiana Luzzi, the sixteen-year-old stabbed and burned alive by the former boyfriend on May 24, 2013 in Corigliano Calabro, in the province of Cosenza. In a recent letter, Mario Luzzi says he feels abandoned by the State, after learning that Fabiana's killer, his daughter, has already obtained three awards in a year. This complaint by the parent of Fabiana comes three years after the final sentence of eighteen years and seven months of imprisonment, issued by the Court of Cassation against the murderer of the then sixteen years old. Mario Luzzi wanted to send this complaint, contained in a letter, also to the Minister of Justice Alfonso Bonafede and to the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, precisely to protest against these prize permits granted to the killer of his daughter. Minister Bonafede has already activated the inspectorate on the case of permits obtained by the killer of Fabiana and the Minister himself has reaffirmed his total closeness and availability to the Luzzi family, victim of this serious loss because of such a heinous crime, to show that in these cases families must feel the State at their side. For my part, I confirm my willingness and commitment to clarify the case, by all means at my disposal, by working together with the Justice Commission and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender-based violence, which I have already mentioned. I also express my closeness as a mother, as well as as as a senator, to the inconsolable pain of the family, which I personally honor to know. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u147	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I rise to point out what is, in my opinion, an emerging issue. I have created this speech with the will to do so in the Chamber listening to Padoan questioning Minister Gualtieri. Padoan in the Joint Budget Committees of Chamber and Senate asked Minister Gualtieri how many resources are in the belly of the State to achieve improvements of the soil and vertical structures destined for collective life. Minister Gualtieri reported that the resources exceed 50 billion euros in belly, data to local authorities, instrumental bodies and universities. What is the problem that is afflicting not only Italy in using public resources? I speak to a community of elected people I have on my left, in front of me, but I speak, doing a small institutional grammar, also to the official and managerial competences of the Senate. What is the problem to be overcome in order to ensure that the resources are proceduralized, sung and implemented, in construction site productivity? The problem is the lack of projects. The projects have the resources, but in order to ensure that the projects are put into maturity, drawn up with opinions and made available for procurement, there is a need to have the initial resources. We need to reactivate, as was the case in the 1990s, a rotation fund for design, a dedicated chapter, which was then managed by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which allows us to buy professional services to put in place designs, which then have the financial cover to give rise to contracts for public works that transform the soil, putting it in safety or making it work. A Member of the Republic, who collects these reports, also sews points of view of places of competence, takes an opportunity like this to make signal and address. Address to the Government was what we did yesterday with the approval of the Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document so that, through those lines, the state budget would be structured. We have to agree, all together. In this House, 150 years ago, Senator Silvio Spaventa spoke, dealing with administrative law and public decisions; he recommended that resources should not be kept in the refrigerator, otherwise they are immoral. Cardinal Martini spoke of immorality when there are resources that are not made fruitful. This too means being reformist and remembering Penates.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u150	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly in this House, the greatest expression of democracy and confrontation, in order to express on the part of the Parliamentary Group, the solidarity and closeness of one of our very young members, Danilo D'Amico, present in the province of Latina and more precisely on the island of Ponza, who has suffered two cowardly attacks within a few months. Our hope is that the Forces of Order can bring justice to these criminals who vilely assaulted and beaten up this political leader of ours. It will certainly not be the threats or violence that stop our work, which the Brothers of Italy party is doing very well on the island of Ponza.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u153	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the request for an answer to Parliamentary Question No 4-01039 of 19 December 2018, which tells a story of malpractice and malabanca, a Kafkian story that crushed a family mother, Maria Siniscalco, who was fired from the bank where she worked, the Unicredit subsidiary No 7 of Via Gattalupa in Reggio-Emilia. The lady realized that the bond packages that she was forced to sell lost about 20 percent of value, while Unicredit presented them to customers as safe, and the managements in equity funds were full of securities and transactions in toxic derivatives at very high risk. The media reported distorted news in the front pages of the newspapers, almost throwing a monster to be hated on the front page with smoke on the illogicality of the accusations, destroying forever life and reputation, even endangering the life of the lady and her family, the subject of repeated threats of death. The customers, who had not even denounced, in the end, in order to have their losses back, were forced, even in the trials, to testify. Mr President, I would ask the Minister for Justice to respond, because people's lives cannot be destroyed by the bad justice-malabanca marriage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-154.ana.u155	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.23 a.m.
