ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1374. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Members of the Commission; yesterday's calm climate has allowed us to bring the measure to the House today, in very fast times: I am grateful to my colleagues, who have also accompanied my first term as rapporteur in this House. Decree-Law No. 59 of 2019, assigned at first reading to the Senate, contains a series of measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, with particular reference to lyric-symphonic foundations, support activities of the administration, cinema and audiovisual, as well as the protection of cultural heritage at the UEFA Euro 2020 event. The adoption of this decree-law had become extremely urgent, in particular for the measures provided for in Article 1, in the field of lyrical-symphonic foundations, and even more specifically, in the field of fixed-term and permanent employment relationships with them, following the ruling of 25 October 2018 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which had found a lack of protection in the internal legal order compared to the assumptions of abuses of term contracts in the sector under consideration. Moreover, at the end of the year, with the imminent expiry of the measures provided for by the Bray Act, there would have been worrying and disadvantageous effects both on artists, workers and all workers employed in foundations, and on the bodies themselves. After years of measures aimed solely at restoring the accounts, at the expense of the artistic value and the workers, the government finally started a phase of organic reform of the foundations. The decree-law under consideration is only the first passage of a path of rehabilitation and valorization of lyric-symphonic foundations that have represented and represent a garrison of Italian culture. Article 1 is concerned to achieve the desired extension of the organic endowments, to start a process of stabilization of workers through selective public tests, to apply turnover on the places made available not only in the current year, but also in the previous two years, and to ensure the stabilisation of the precarious historical staff. However, the Commission has taken steps to remedy the critical issues raised in the first application and confirmed during the hearings. In particular, paragraph 3-a of paragraph 1 news article 29 of the legislative decree 15 June 2015, n. 81, allowing the employers under consideration to conclude fixed-term employment contracts for contingent and temporary requirements determined by the heterogeneity of artistic productions that make it necessary to employ additional artistic and technical personnel, or by the replacement of temporarily absent workers, provided that this happens by written act, at the penalty of nullity, for a total duration of 48 months, even non-continuous, without prejudice to the various provisions of collective agreements. Amendment 1.9 (text 2), approved in the referent, proposes instead to reduce the total duration to 36 months, however, providing that the limit is calculated from 1 July 2019, first to align the measure with the deadlines provided for by the measures of the Decree dignity, avoid the lacked extensions of workers, and provide for an appropriate period of time for the preparation of the insolvency proceedings. With regard to the news in question, an agreement report signed on 4 July 2019 by some trade unions provides, at the first stage of application, that the duration of the fixed-term employment contracts for the performance of tasks of the same level and legal category may not exceed a total of 240 months and that, in any case, the duration of the term relationships concluded on the basis of the same agreement cannot have a deadline after 30 July 2020. The above amendment 1.9 (text 2) also proposes to delete the rule of this novella which provides, when the above limit of 48 months (i.e. 36 on the basis of the same amendment proposes), the forfeiture of any right of precedence in any fixed-term recruitment which may be completed by the worker under the provisions of collective bargaining. This deletion proposal seems to be linked to the fact that the same collective agreements - as mentioned above - may derogate from the above time limit. Seasonal activities are excluded from the application of the same paragraph 3-a. Amendment 1.7, approved by the contact person, also proposes to extend the scope of application of the above-mentioned news, relating to the employment relationships placed by the chapters 3- bis and 3-b of Article 1, paragraph 1, to the theatres of tradition and to the entities financed by the Single Fund for entertainment that apply in employment contracts with employees the national collective agreement of the lyric-symphonic foundations. The following paragraph 3-b provides that, in the event of a breach of the rules on fixed-term contracts, the workers concerned are only entitled to compensation for the damage, while no conversion of the employment relationship into an indefinite contract is carried out. The employers concerned shall be obliged to recover, in respect of the managers responsible, the sums paid by way of compensation for the damage, where the infringement is due to malice or gross negligence. Paragraph 2 novels Legislative Decree no. 367 of 29 June 1996 laying down provisions on the recruitment of lyric-symphonic foundations. It is stipulated that the recruitment of permanent staff should take place through selective public procedures, subject to the nullity of the relevant contracts. It is also expected that each foundation, after a resolution of the Governing Board, after hearing the most representative trade unions, will submit a proposal for an organic budget. The standard scheme of the proposal is adopted by decree of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Amendment 1,48, approved by the contact person, proposes to specify that the standard scheme takes into account the structural and organisational needs of the national collective agreement for work and related to artistic complexes and the technical sector. The proposal must be accompanied by an illustrative and technical report, drawn up by the College of Auditors, which demonstrates the economic and financial sustainability of the organic budget so determined and a programming document that represents how the proposed organic allocation is aimed at achieving adequate levels of production and productivity of the foundation, i.e. increasing them. Amendment 1.55 (text 2), approved in the referent, proposes to include a reminder to preserve the priority institutional aims of the lyric-symphonic foundations in the protection and dissemination of the Italian lyric-symphonic cultural heritage and the ballet and the indication of the number of fixed-term employment contracts and related charges. Amendment 1.60 (text 2), which was adopted by the referee, proposes that the number of fixed-term employment contracts concluded in the last two years should also be indicated. Amendment 1.61 (text 2) also proposes that the number of vacancies should also be indicated with the distinction between artistic, technical and administrative staff. Following the transmission of the proposal, the organic budget is approved within 60 days following, by decree of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, adopted in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, also for the evaluation of the financial aspects and after opinion, for the foundations that have submitted the plan for recovery, of the extraordinary Commissioner of the Government. A three-year review of the organic allocation proposal is possible, assessing economic and financial sustainability and adequacy to planned production levels. In addition, each foundation, if the outcome of the periodic audit of the College of Auditors fails to meet the requirement of economic and financial sustainability, is required to activate the audit procedure. With regard to permanent recruitment, it is provided that they are contained within the limit of a quota corresponding to the total expenditure on staff ceased in the current year and in the previous two years and that they are carried out, in any case, in line with the needs of the institution. In the case of holidays of staff in relation to the approved organic budget, the foundations shall, without a time limit, assume the candidates' winning results with the right of precedence. Amendment 1,1000 (text 3), approved by the contact person, proposes to specify that the selective procedures relating to technical, artistic and administrative staff of lyrical-symphonic foundations in progress on that date of entry into force are without prejudice to the selective procedures relating to technical, artistic and administrative staff of the lyrical-symphonic foundations in progress. Article 2 authorizes the expenditure of 15,410,145 euros for 2019 to ensure the performance of general services supporting the activities of the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and its peripheral structures. The expenditure of 19.4 million euros for each of the years 2019-2020 is also authorised for the purposes referred to in Article 3, paragraph 3, of Law No 662 of 1996. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Russo, I invite you to conclude. Mrs Russo, rapporteur. Unfortunately, the report also includes other articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time must also be considered, unfortunately. Mrs Russo, rapporteur. By synthesizing, Article 3 will simplify and support the cinema and audiovisual sector, it has been amended in the context of the literal wording and further substantial forecasts have been included. Paragraph 4, as amended by the Commission with the approval of amendment 3.100, reduces the minimum and maximum threshold of the share of the fund for the development of investments in cinema and audiovisual for selective contributions and film promotion activities. Article 4, not amended in the reference, excludes the travelling spectacle from the obligation to use the nominal tickets. With this provision, the sector in question is therefore excluded from the scope of the provision contained in the last budget law, which introduced the obligation of nominal access certificates for shows organized in venues with a capacity of more than 5,000 spectators to counter the phenomenon of bagaraggio (secondary ticketing). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I have to ask you to finish. I've already given you two more minutes. Mrs Russo, rapporteur. I shall conclude, Mr President. Article 5, not amended in the referee, accelerates the procurement procedures for the implementation of necessary interventions for the European football championship UEFA 2020, while Article 6 contains provisions for the entry into force of the decree-law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The minority rapporteur, Senator Rampi, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. By not making any comments, the request is deemed to have been accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Democratic Party we have presented a minority report for a number of reasons, merit and method. From the point of view of the method, the content of this decree-law takes into account some elements of undoubted usefulness, in particular with regard to the field of lyric-symphonic foundations, in which it was absolutely urgent to intervene because there are many problems that concern the workers who are part of it. However, an intervention presented in the form of the decree-law, with sixty days of expiry, in July, reduces and compresses the times of parliamentary discussion in an excessive manner. Moreover, the timing of the Commission has further reduced this activity, because it has been given a few days - to all of us, not only to the minority - for the submission of amendments, the deadline has expired two weeks ago, but since then time has not been used effectively to get into the substance of the proposals put forward. We have tabled some 20 amendments, so we have done a very constructive job, which, in our view, could have been transposed in order to significantly improve the text. I recognize the absolute courtesy of the rapporteur, Mrs Russo, who has certainly committed herself to trying to build a dialogue, to which we have responded with an attitude that I believe is absolutely constructive in the time: if we are here this morning it is because our Group yesterday decided to accept a very rapid discussion in the Commission. However, this compression has meant that only a very few amendments have been accepted and we have not dealt with how we could have dealt with the much more comprehensive issue of workers in this sector. We hope that the famous measure on live entertainment will arrive: that it has now assumed almost mythological traits if finally it will finally arrive in the Chamber (it had to be extended at the beginning, then it has been re-presented, but it is present in the schedule of the Senate's works), we would really like that to be the occasion to tackle the work in this sector systemically. It is in fact a crucial sector for the country, not only because it affects so many people, but also because it is one of the foundations of democratic living. Democracy is based on work and cultural dissemination and those who work in this area contribute significantly to the spread of democracy and, therefore, to the preconditions of democracy. The same is true with regard to cinema: we have tabled several amendments and adopted an important framework law on cinema; we realize that corrective measures have been introduced, which are the offspring of activity and verification by the industry. It is an extraordinarily important sector for this country, not only because it can be and is the object of cinematic attraction as a backdrop, for its natural beauty and its monuments, but also because we have extraordinary professionals, recognized with the most important prizes all over the world. A sector of this kind needs an extraordinary investment, also economic, to compete today with other countries that have objectively less attractiveness and less skills, but that investing more - and I am thinking for example of the last interventions of the French Government - risk being very strong competitors for us: also in this case, therefore, we note a significant lack. Of course, this also applies to the issue of live entertainment. The decree-law introduces an exclusion that we share, so we are in favour of what is written in the original text. We note that this is a necessary measure against online bagaraggio, which we not only share, but of which we were the first promoters in the last parliamentary term in the House. It has, however, used an intervention system which, in our opinion, is not effective and creates many problems for the supply chain. This element is evidently also noted by the Government, which introduces an exclusion, even if only for a limited number of realities - which perhaps, among other things, would have less problems than others - leaving even more alone the most full-bodied part of the chain, constituted by those who every day, in particular during this period of the year, organize extraordinary moments of music and aggregation for people in our squares and our cities. In fact, they are burdened by a completely ineffective measure for the objective they want to achieve, but very heavy for those who work in the sector, consumers and the public, on which they will return in negative. These, in short, are some of the reasons why we are not satisfied either with the way in which we have dealt with this measure or with the final content. However, we recognise the positive nature of some of the elements contained in it, which we believe are necessary, so our invitation can only be to do better and more, because this sector is crucial and the present one is objectively a missed opportunity. I request permission to hand over the remainder of my written speech. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u7	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the attention of this House, which is today discussing urgent measures on the staff of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, to express at least some concerns about the decree-law in question, which is yet another incomplete measure and leads us to define our political position, which cannot fail to take into account certain aspects of the situation of the workers of the spectacle, who sometimes fall into really disastrous situations. I want to take the example of two very important realities of our musical heritage, such as L'Arena di Verona and Maggio musicale fiorentino, whose workers are still in a worrying situation. A government that fails to find a positive solution to these problems has completely failed its mission. Mine is therefore an intervention that wants to be first of all a witness. Here are the facts: the management of the Arena Foundation in Verona asked workers for the return of the corporate prizes of 2015, despite having made precise assurances to them and also had manifested its opposition to the ministries involved about such repayment of sums received and obviously already committed. I would like to remind this House that we are not talking about a few dozen, but about some 700 workers involved, 250 of whom are permanent and 450 seasonal workers, who apparently have no right to have rights. If confirmed, the return could cost them thousands of euros, thus having a heavy impact on their remuneration, already unfairly cut in the past three years, following the economic recovery plan. The budgets of the Arena Foundation of Verona, like those of the Florentine Musical Maggio, are proposed by the supervisor, artistically and in fact evaluated by the directors appointed by the institutional members, analyzed by the Board of Auditors (whose chairman is appointed by the Court of Auditors), certified by a third audit firm. The verification by the same supervisory bodies, after many years, cannot have repercussions on the workers who, in good faith, at the time received the provisions of their contract of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers of the Verona Arena met in the assembly yesterday and are in great difficulty: what is the government doing to solve this problem? They are very critical of the measure under discussion today: do the workers have to pay for bad choices, often dictated by bureaucrats, rather than by experts, who decide on the leadership of our foundations? This is written in clear letters by the very authoritative Isotta - of which I often do not share the positions - calling them "prodigies of nature", capable of arriving at a "locupletatisssimo" public place, for which they would never have found competitors worse than them: people from the "wikipedia" culture, personalities who respond to logics that, in turn, respond to other, more than a demand for proven professionalism and experience. Franco Cardini defines culture as a capacity and will to question itself, a condition of moral and intellectual courage and a desire to learn, listen to others and bring a contribution to growth. I therefore hope that this Government and Italy will make their own the awareness that culture must remain the ground of enterprise, of creative diffusion and of educational and enjoyable space, to be defined in synergy with the individual competences, in order to carry out a speech of excellence that so far has distinguished us in the world. We must get out of the propaganda to solve the problems of the entertainment workers in practice. I wanted to remind this House of the condition of the workers of the Verona Arena and the Florentine May, but there are thousands of the workers of the show in difficulty, who look to this decree-law in the hope that hundreds of precarious situations will be resolved, which it does not address as it should. We do not eat propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, but culture does, especially in the presence of careful planning and precise support. A serious cultural policy must give young people the tools to critically evaluate what they learn, giving them the certainty that, if they choose the field of art and music, they will be able to provide for themselves with dignity, without remaining precarious for life. In the awareness of the uniqueness and inestimable value of Italian cultural heritage, it is necessary to create serious synergies in order to develop it and become aware that the culture concerns each one in the first person, but it is politics that must bear its responsibility. I wanted to bring this issue to your attention, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so that, at last, during this parliamentary term, we can reflect on the sense of culture, which is one of the flyers of the prestige of Italy in the world, but which cannot in any way ignore the protection of acquired rights, professionalism, the dedication of the hundreds and hundreds of workers in the sector, their dignity and the serenity to which they themselves and their families love. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u9	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u10	Mr President, in general I am convinced that the promotion of development and culture and the protection of artistic heritage are an essential condition for the cultural growth of our country, as Mr Rampi recalled in his speech. On the merits of the measure, I will reflect on the basis of the experience that I have lived on the territory, as administrator in the Province of Verona, where insists one of the most known foundations in Italy and in the world. First, however, I am curious: the delegation of this measure can be exercised within two years. As is well known, at the end of the year the benefits of the so-called Bray law expire, to which nine Italian foundations adhere - in its various forecasts - throughout the territory. At the end of the year, therefore, there will be effects that will also affect organic plants, because, if the budgets were not in order, there will be reductions in organic plants. Given that the delegation must be exercised within two years, it would not be wrong to extend immediately the obligations of the so-called Bray law, in order to give serenity to the system and also to the Government, which will have to legislate in this direction. I think it is more than opportune to renew and qualify all cultural and non-cultural procedures, so as to give a new impetus to the system of lyric-symphonic foundations, which suffer not little, especially from the economic point of view. How? From this point of view, to give certainty to foundations, I do not agree with the order of priorities and hierarchies, namely that cultural offering must be subject to optimization of expenditure, for obvious reasons, as we have seen, without further explanation. First it was said that with culture you do not eat: well, not always the cultural production succeeds in obtaining the economic results that we all want. Therefore, if we do not reverse the order of factors - of which I obviously understand the delicate balance - giving priority to a careful evaluation of the contents, so that the principle of financial stability can be integrated and evaluated, we do not get out; indeed, we depress the cultural offer that foundations in Italy manage to offer. I think it is appropriate to revisit the system, which is not in the law of delegation. As has also been pointed out several times in the Extraordinary Commissioner's report on lyric-symphonic foundations, the 1996 reform showed all the difficulties involved: the transformation of lyric institutions into foundations under private law did not work, neither in the relationship with the territory, nor in the donation through the Single Show Fund; there are criticalities that the system adopted with the 1996 reform produced. I cite the most important critical issues, which I have observed personally and I believe are everywhere: first, the fact that the mayor of the city is the president of the board of address, then appoint the superintendent. This is one of the greatest difficulties encountered: just now Mrs Rojc referred to the return of large sums to the workers of the Arena Foundation in Verona; well, because of those choices made by the superintendent were also produced negative economic results for the workers. As superintendent, therefore, it is not always chosen who is experienced in a particular field, but sometimes it has happened that a friend has been chosen, for political sentiments or closeness to the mayor himself. Among the critical issues, I mention the difficult relationship between foundations and the territory. Collegi, the University of Verona has calculated the induced of the opera season Arena, known all over the world, in about 400 million euros a year, of which - fortunately, for our territory - benefit economic activities such as hotels and restaurants: yet, on the side of financial participation, Confindustria, the Chamber of Commerce, and the representative bodies of these economic activities give to the Arena of Verona a little more than one million euros a year; we are to figures of this order. This is the relationship that was hoped for with the 1996 reform between the foundation of private law, which produces the above results, and the territory, with the possibility of investments by private individuals, despite the subsequent facilitation, the bonus culture and others. I do not want to imagine the report of the other foundations, which will certainly not have an incentive of EUR 400 million per year, for obvious reasons (not because they are not capable, but because they are much smaller foundations). I quote Verona's experience, not because I like to play in the house (it would be too easy), but because I think it is significant of the criticalities and objections that can be raised, both on the current system, and on the law delegation to which we should express our vote today, because it does not solve these two main critical issues. Compared to these two issues, the promise to rationalise state support measures in the sector is a very positive fact, but the important thing is that there is no primacy of cost-benefit analysis over that type of cultural activity. There would be many other things to say. I hope that I have convinced colleagues or at least made them aware of the critical issues which I do not think can be resolved within this delegation. There are positive aspects to the supply, banking system and programme agreements on lyrical-symphonic foundations, but we must then fill them with content. However, if we do not destroy the current rule, which creates the critical issues to which I have referred, we will not get out of it and the foundations will still suffer. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u11	She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many doubts and concerns about the government's decision on what should have been done to resolve the precariousness of the workers of the lyric-symphonic foundations, whose protests therefore appear to be more than justified and for which we fully support them. We have therefore made a careful reading of the provisions included in the decree-law, a legislative choice that is already questionable in itself, considering that it is not understood the need for an emergency measure on a subject that has been going on for more than fifteen years, not having the workers of the lyric-symphonic foundations still obtained a worthy stabilization of their profession. The regulatory text we are dealing with is, in some parts, even in open conflict with European standards in relation to long-term working relationships and without adequate justification. It should be pointed out that the incomprehensible choice of raising the maximum duration of time contracts from twenty-four to forty-eight months would be a forecast whose principle has already been evaluated by the European Union and has been declared unlawful. For this reason, the Italian Government has already been condemned for violating Community directives, precisely for the abuse in the use of time-term relations and the lack of justifications. Now workers risk remaining precarious for life. In addition to this first element of contradiction in the text, there are further obvious discriminations, such as the cancellation of the right of precedence in future recruitment, or the protection measure applied to date in case of abuse of time work and which has always been the conversion of the relationship to an indefinite period. This measure has virtually vanished and economic compensation alone represents a considerable fall in protection. From a purely legal point of view, we can summarize that the prohibition of the conversion of the contract of employment to an indefinite time with the sole measure of the economic compensation and the modification of the specificity of the causality of the engagement passes and, above all, a prohibition of overcoming the maximum duration of forty-eight months (while for all the other workers in term the maximum duration is twenty-four months, as provided for in the decree dignity of 2018). Therefore, we lapse from the right of precedence in future future future assumptions, a right that today in Italy, is acquired by overcoming the selections for three years and working on the dependencies of the foundations: in other words, I exceed the selections for the fourth year, I acquire the right of precedence and at the end of the year I lose it and we start again. Practically, precarious workers in the entertainment sector are assigned to a life-long precariousness, if possible with even less protection and rights. In essence, instead of reducing it, it would increase the precariousness of a sector which is, in itself, highly precarious. However, what actually makes it incomprehensible - and at this more serious point - the choice made by the Government is that this discipline has been the subject of previous jurisprudential rulings that have sanctioned principles totally opposed to those underlying the proposed legislation dismissed. The so-called Sciotto judgment of 25 October 2018 has in fact stated that for the precarious employees of the show and of the lyric-symphonic foundations there is no express Italian norm to their protection regarding both the assumption in term, and the maximum duration of the term relationships. In fact, the Dignity Decree, converted into Law No 96 of 9 August 2018, according to the principles previously indicated, decreased the maximum duration from thirty-six to twenty-four months for all workers in term, while Decree-Law No 59 of 28 June 2019 derogating from the already regulated for all other workers, provides for an increase of the maximum duration to forty-eight months and the prohibition of conversion. The simple indication of the show will be sufficient to make legitimate the reasons for the assumption. It is also intended to introduce public competition, although foundations are private bodies. All this inevitably implies that the approach taken creates a contrary effect, in the sense that we will have a greater extension of the precariousness in the sector, which will soon also affect other related sectors, but equally fundamental, such as the technical and tailoring sectors, as well as the drivers, toolers and lighting technicians. What the sector actually needs is an overall action aimed at permanently healing the precarious, investing much more funds for the stabilization of workers, in full respect of the rights acquired by them from year to year. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to consider the matter before proceeding with the adoption of the measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u13	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to make a brief comment on the attitude that this Government has shown to culture since its establishment. This is an executive who has directed all the resources to approve flag measures that, unfortunately, will not contribute to the growth of this country from the cultural point of view. With the budget law, for the first time in several years, no new resources have been allocated for culture. There has been no programming, not even for the three-year period to which the maneuver refers. It has been a long time since culture was so mortified in a budget law. No additional resources have been allocated, except for part of the recruitment to the Ministry, which in any case fill gaps and do not increase the organic endowment. In addition, the few measures planned have been covered from resources previously allocated. The appropriations for cinema, museums, libraries and publishing have been reduced and the ceiling allocated to the card for eighteen-year-olds has been reduced. These are only micro-sectoral interventions, without any overall design and for the future. Unfortunately, we have to record this. This government, therefore, has taken a very different path from the previous one and it is in this context that the measure under consideration is included. The one under discussion is a small-scale decree which, in some way, tries to fix some issues that can no longer be postponed. Unfortunately, we will be forced to face in the coming months the real problems of a comprehensive reform of the Ministry's organization for cultural goods and activities, which seems to be aimed more at disassembling, than at adapting and consolidating the current system. For this reason, it seems to me important to outline the framework within which we move and within which the measure under consideration is incorporated. These measures respond to the immediate emergency, but there is no overall reform. In this respect, if we cannot fail to agree with the attempt to reduce the number of precarious persons, we believe that the problem is not fully addressed, unlike the objectives announced. Perhaps, failing to dissolve more complex and intricate nodes, it was decided to address less important issues by restoring, in this sense, the image of a Government that is not really interested in promoting decisive investments in culture. The theme now is whether, as promised, the Government will really have the ability and the time - in the near future - to start a path that will lead to a more definite and more stable situation because this decree does not do so. As far as the staff of the lyric-symphonic foundations are concerned, it seems to me that we have not been able to give full impetus to the desire to create a virtuous system of employee management. It is clear that this measure was necessary following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 25 October 2018. In addition, the failure to apply a transitional period beyond the expiry of forty-eight months of time contracts risks increasing the precariousness of many workers in the sector rather than resolving it. I am afraid that some of the theatres will be able to stabilize, others will not succeed, as has been pointed out by previous speeches by Mr Rojc and Mr D'Arienzo. The forty-eight-month leghold trap has been inserted and it is clear that it will create a series of problems from now on. In fact, there is a risk of having even more precarious workers because they risk finding work every four years from one theatre to another, without ever ripening a possibility of stabilization. Only a few workers will settle down, and among them, for example, the dancing bodies, which are the weakest, will continue to be precarious. But even in orchestras and technicians there is a risk of covering only a part of the available seats. Just as there is a slice of precariousness also among the administrative. For this reason, even if we obviously consider this first intervention useful, we believe that a more substantial investment is needed to structure a real plan of stabilizations, providing - at the same time - certain and lasting financing for opera theatres. On Article 1 we have tabled a number of amendments aimed at extending the rules also to traditional theatres and actors financed by the Single Fund for Performing Arts using the national collective agreement of lyric-symphonic foundations because of their peculiarity and a broader view of the stakeholders concerned. Like the others, however, these amendments have not been adopted. We can only sincerely regret these choices because the measures - although necessary - have been very minimal. Perhaps more could be done with greater cooperation. As far as the audiovisual sector is concerned, the measure is almost a warm cloth, a missed opportunity. Here, too, there is a lack of a strategic and wide-ranging vision. There is a lack of investment and that basic thought which should lead to a reform of the sector. Not all the novelties that concern new forms of production, transmission channels, new technical and artistic skills that animate the sector have been addressed. This aspect would have deserved much more attention. I repeat, these measures are also positive, but extremely sectoral and are part of an immediate approach that is not very thick. The entertainment, cinema and audiovisual industry should be considered not in a residual perspective, but as a fundamental element for the development of the country both from the economic point of view and from the cultural and democratic point of view, because the investment in these areas allows the country to grow and the citizens to exercise a real active and conscious citizenship. The formative and reflective value of cinema, for example, is still underestimated, although films are now fully part of the formative instruments, as a significant cultural product since the twentieth century. The intervention on the subject of piracy is also a missed opportunity, introduced at the last minute, in a confused way. As Senators of the Democratic Party, we have therefore tried with our amendments to make the text more incisive, but often our speeches have not been accepted. Unfortunately, the examination in the Commission has been prompt and so, I say this with bitterness, we are in the presence of a limited and inadequate measure. Of course, these are difficult times for culture, with negative consequences for the whole of society, because culture is the resource of resources and it is unthinkable, almost a paradox that in a country like ours must compromise precisely the elements that should constitute a wealth for our future and that instead are impoverished due to the absence of a real investment in cultural policies. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u15	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u16	Mr President, there is a little regret, I tell you the truth, because in a Commission that is proving to be trying to work together in an attempt not to place itself in a necessarily opposing but constructive way, with a rapporteur who has also tried to collect a number of requests in this case, even if she has not been able to accept those that were fundamental demands for us, there remains the regret for a question that we cannot answer: is there a title for this decree-law? Ours is the country - and we boast of this, rightly - with the greatest cultural heritage, with an incredible wealth that we express also through our lyrical-symphonic orchestras, through our ability and greatness in cinema and then liquidate these themes in a provision that we could define without infamy and without praise. This is what I call it because, as Senator Rampi has also said in his report, it contains measures that put the system in place a little bit, but there is no attempt to give an overall vision to this world. For this reason I say that there is no title, I say it to the Undersecretary, whom we know for his passion and also for his dedication. We cannot summarize this decree-law. I also wonder whether there was really a need for a decree, with which, moreover, the time for discussion was fixed, although this opposition absolutely respected the time set by the Commission; more than two weeks ago we tabled the amendments and waited two weeks to discuss them, so it is clear that then there was no room to compare them. We have tabled a few amendments and we have done so in order to try to enrich the text that you have offered us and to try to improve it and to tell you that it really did not go and ask for an extra effort, which we thought necessary. Instead, you were a little deaf, a little hasty, there was no overall vision. The measure consists of five articles, of which one is actually added. The subject of Article 1 is that of workers in this sector. We tried to run some solutions, Senator Rojc said it well before, as well as Senator D'Arienzo, but not all the measures you have put in place really give a response to the sector and you know it too, because the hearings we carried out run and, while listening to the various requests, you accepted only one improvement proposal regarding Article 1. All in all, therefore, we have also aligned ourselves with some proposals of the rapporteur, who has tried to amend the text further to give a further space for discussion, but - I repeat - it has been contracted, without breath, not allowing an overall vision capable of giving a response to workers in all sectors that are concerned with this world, from lyrical-symphonic foundations to cinema. In Article 3, we see almost a sort of balance, built in an attempt to keep all sectors in place. But often, when you try to keep everyone inside, you don't come to a true, clear and determined choice. Even then, we tried to bring you elements that would help you not to disassemble what we had done. I do not say that to claim the job, so much so that we are not attacking you on a number of issues and we know what the speeches you wanted to make. However, we would have liked you to remember the work we did in the film industry and perhaps, with a view to continuity, not to say that everything was wrong, thus erasing something that that world needed. I repeat, however, that we, in a constructive way, have tried to make improvements. I regret not seeing the Minister in the Chamber, without taking anything away from the Undersecretary, but I recall that during his hearing in the Commission he said that he had to add a point concerning the nominal ticket, extending the areas to which the nominal ticket rule was not subject. I need to take a step back, because it is true that here, in this Chamber of the Senate, we remember the budget law only because it was not discussed, but within that budget law, where everything ended, without the opposition being given the possibility of being able to say its own, but not even to the majority (you closed the package without even a moment of discussion), an amendment came in which it was established that, from July 1, there was a nominal ticket for all shows greater than a certain number of spectators. I'm not here to go into the details. The motivation was to avoid the secondary ticketing on line, the so-called phenomenon of bagarinaggio. And who can be against an initiative that goes in that direction? The problem, as we have tried to tell you in all the sauces, is that the measure adopted by you, that is the nominal ticket, does not help, does not solve the problem and is creating additional problems to the section of the organizers of the concerts, but not only to them. We will go to see later and I will also say it in the amending phase, because we cannot take any steps back on this issue. It has become a priority issue for us and we have told you so many times in the debate in the Commission. This measure creates a major problem for that sector, which today guarantees some growth for our economy because it is positive. What do you do? Put the stick between the wheels to a sector that works in Italy and put in trouble even the consumers, who will find themselves with the most expensive tickets. I will explain, Mr President, this issue at an amending stage. This, however, is to say that we have tried in every way, in the short time of the discussion that has been granted to us, to make you change your mind gradually, proposing different solutions that, however, you wanted to reject to the sender. I'm sorry, because you would have had the opportunity not to be short-sighted, which you proved to be this time too. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u17	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 59 is a necessity, as well as a number of choices in the artistic field, mainly linked to the management of the staff employed. It contains a series of adjustments aimed at optimising and rationalising certain rules relating to certain areas of Mibac competence. It consists of 5 articles. Article 1 pronounces itself on fixed-term and permanent employment relationships with the lyric-symphonic foundations, following some judgments of the Court of Justice in the matter of contracts that, had not intervened with the decree-law in question, would have generated a great deal of litigation and embarrassing appeals by the artistic world; world, I remember, which represents one of the many Italian boasts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] More stringent rules are laid down for the application of fixed-term contracts, allowing foundations to conclude them only for contingent and temporary requirements, provided that this is done by written act, under penalty of nullity, for a total duration of forty-eight months, even non-continuous. This type of contract for decades has been applied to the workers of the show, in derogation from the rules in force, generating pockets of precarious. With regard to the recruitment of permanent staff, however, the decree-law states that it must be carried out through selective public procedures, under penalty of nullity. In addition, the procedures for the definition of organic envelopes are regulated, limits are set to permanent recruitment in terms of overall expenditure and in line with needs and selective procedures are provided for artistic and technical staff as well as administrative staff with certain requirements. In this way, the measure aims to put an end to abuse and discrimination by adapting the national legislative system on the use of fixed-term employment in lyric bodies to the rules of national and European law in force. The measure also aims to ensure the relaunch of foundations in terms of planning and development, ensuring the continuation of institutional activities and the consequent growth of the related economic sectors, encouraging those responsible for theatres to assume for personal competition on a stable plan, with certain organic endowments. With a structural adjustment it will be possible to determine revival, programming and development, all having an eye on the measures in support of works of original Italian expression. In Article 2, in addition to ensuring a more adequate performance of the general services supporting the activities of the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and of the peripheral structures, in addition to 15,4 million euros for the purposes of the 2019-2020 budget, an expenditure by the Ministry for cultural goods and activities of about 20 million euros of the profits deriving from the game of the lot for each of the years 2019-2020 is authorised, in order to ensure a more effective performance of the functions of protection and conservation of cultural assets. In this way an adequate response is given to the growing demand for the use of the enormous artistic heritage of our country. There are also rules for cinema and audiovisual, which in part reduce and partially make applicable certain points of the law of cinema launched by the former Minister Franceschini, making the rules more functional, gradual and flexible. Specifically, the rules governing the promotion of European and Italian works are modified and postponed to January 2020 and they reduce the percentages of Italian securities that private issuers are obliged to program and in part also the rates related to investment obligations on Italian production. In addition, strict sanctions are confirmed for those who will avoid these constraints. The composition of the Committee on the Classification of Cinema Works is also changed, increasing from 5 to 15 the number of experts, whose aim is access to selective contributions, aimed primarily at cinematographic works and in particular at first and second works, works made by young authors, difficult films made with modest financial resources and works of particular artistic quality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Article 4 excludes, from 1 July 2019, after seven months from the entry into force - I would like to say to the PD - also the travelling show from the obligation to use the nominal tickets, as well as other types of show that already act as a derogation. Article 5 aims to speed up the procurement procedures for the implementation of the necessary interventions for the event of the European Championship of football 2020 that will take place in the Capital, ensuring the integrity and protection of the historical, artistic and cultural heritage of Rome. Such urgent normative intervention does not mortify the culture, but I hope that it unblocks and exhorts so many artistic productions currently firm for normative uncertainty and above all for identity uncertainty, works ranging from lyrics to cinema, areas in which Italy has always distinguished itself for the high quality level. This decree-law, therefore, entrusts itself to a driving sector not only for art, but also for the economy, given the induced that it feeds, therefore the League will express itself favorably. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u19	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u20	Mr President, before I make my speech, which will also be very brief in order to allow Members to participate in the Ventaglio Ceremony, I would like to express on behalf of Forza Italia our solidarity with the Italian citizens who are forced to face a total national strike in these hours. I read the newspapers this morning and I listened to tgs on the major radio channels that defined this as a block by land and sea, and Friday there will also be that by air. For this we must thank a minister who struggles to define transport, who never ceases to surprise us. I would therefore like to express our solidarity with the citizens whom someone wanted to defend as a lawyer. I begin my speech with a warning to policy-makers, a very bizarre, contradictory world, with little memory, addressed above all to colleagues in the PD. There is a historically well-established saying that reads: the king is dead, long life to the king. By borrowing from the said saying we could say: the jobs act is dead, long life to the jobs act. Simply read the provision under consideration today in this Chamber, the decree-law Bonisoli that, to paragraph 1 of Article 1, adds two paragraphs to paragraph 3 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015 that is the pillar of the jobs act of Renzi, one of the legislative decrees implementing the so-called Poletti law of 2014, to say vivava the contract to fixed time, even extending the terms from thirty-six to forty-eight months, therefore it is precarious to life. This is equivalent to saying: live Renzi, live the jobs act, which worked. In fact, in the Bonisoli Decree-Law, which seems to me a minister near the Movimento 5 Stars, no reference is made to a decree-law much closer, that of 2018, that is, the decree dignity, rhetorically presented as the provision that would abolish the precarious. They wanted to abolish poverty, the precarious, the TAV, they wanted to abolish everything and instead they do everything and the opposite of everything. This shows that politics, when it is governed, is very different from the political propaganda of the electoral campaigns that follow each other in this country. With the measure under consideration we also allow the workers of the show to take advantage of the advantages enshrined and signed by the laws of Matteo Renzi in the field of work. So we could call this a Bonisoli-Renzi decree, not a Bonisoli-Di Maio decree. The thing that surprises me even more is that to this decree have been introduced by the rapporteur several amendments that go to supplement not only the legislative decree n. 81, that I have cited and that is modified and supplemented by paragraph 1 of article 1 of the provision, but even the legislative decree n. 22 of 2015 on the NASpI, providing a series of new guarantees such as the extension of the protections in favor of the members of the separate management, the protection of the work through digital platforms and the compulsory insurance cover against accidents at work and occupational diseases. Has Maio been informed that Bonisoli has become the Minister pro tempore for work and economic development? The decree-law on our examination was used by a Minister to solve problems that had arisen from a judgment of the European Court of Justice of October 2018, but it contains rules that upset what has just been approved by this Assembly and that of the House in the so-called Dignity Decree. So, of the two each: o Bonisoli is the new Minister of Labour or Di Maio has been resoundingly disavowed by this provision. However, we must go back with memory, because we are talking about lyrical-symphonic foundations and I am a little surprised by the speeches of my PD colleagues because the PD knows this sector very well, having intervened several times, as well as the Centre-right. I remember that for the lyric-symphonic foundations we have intervened, in the last twelve, thirteen years, with six decrees: the decree Urbani of 2004, the decree Bondi of 2010, the decree Valore Cultura of Minister Bray of 2013, the decree Franceschini of 2014, the decree Culture of Minister Alfano of 2016 on territorial authorities that contained a norm, in Article 24, on lyric-symphonic foundations and the decree Bonisoli in 2019, that is, a series of measures to solve a problem that exists. I know it is politically incorrect to speak ill of lyrical-symphonic foundations but we must admit - and Mr D'Arienzo has honestly admitted this - that the system does not work. The system provided for in Law No 367 of 1996, when the ineffable Veltroni was Minister of Culture, has not worked and still does not work. This section is obsolete - we want to say this, since I have not yet heard of debts to the State, to Italian citizens - by about 300 million debts that have increased also thanks to the decree Bray that has been spent, rightly, to help May Fiorentino. Even today I heard that it is necessary to help the May Fiorentino, which however had an ad hoc law - the decree Bray, n. 91 of 2013, so-called "Cultura value" but I would have called it "Florence value" because there was Renzi to govern at that time - and received a lot of funding. The revolving fund has already allocated a total of 158 million, 156 already allocated and 149 already paid out. And the foundations, as always tells us in a sad and worried tone the ad hoc commissioner, appointed ex lege n. 112 of 2013, the law of conversion of the decree Bray, have many debts: 23 million the Municipal Theatre of Bologna, 59 million the May Fiorentino (which has the record of debts), 33 million and a half the Carlo Felice of Genoa, 34 million the San Carlo. I say this because it seems that we are talking about beautiful souls, supplementary company contracts, forty-eight months, thirty-six months or twenty-four months, permanent contracts and instead we have debts that we will have to heal at some point. We in the Centre-Right, in 2010, with the Bondi law, which was then undermined by a series of appeals and judgments of the Constitutional Court, had the merit of saying: stop! Stop! Long live culture, because culture is certainly a factor of competitive advantage in the economy for a country that has a huge cultural heritage, wide and diversified (the Italian national one is very rich compared to other economies of the European countries) but it must also restore and therefore get out of this ambiguity. Another trivial but objective observation. But are there only the 14 lyrical-symphonic foundations of Veltroni? Was it right to change Law No. 800 of 1967 which considered them to be bodies governed by public law? It is useless to invent private-law foundations if they do not have a euro, if they cannot fundraising, if they cannot attract investments other than those of the State. But are there only 14 lyrical-symphonic foundations? No, there are also 29 theatres of musical and opera tradition - but do we want to help these too? - Jesi, Macerata, Livorno, Lucca, Pisa, Bergamo, Bolzano, Brescia, Catania, Chieti, Cosenza, Cremona, Ferrara, Lecce, Milan, Mantua, Modena, Novara, Parma, Pavia, Piacenza, Ravenna, Reggio Emilia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on and finish, Senator. Giro (FI-BP). Nobody talks about these traditional theatres. Some, the Teatro Donizetti in Bergamo, the Teatro del Giglio in Lucca, the Teatro Grande in Brescia, the Teatro Massimo Bellini in Catania, are theatres that make cultural programming equal, if not superior, of the 14 famous lyrical-symphonic foundations, which receive - I remember - 53 percent of the FUS, 182 million euros. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed, Senator. Giro (FI-BP). To spend it how? I'll tell you. You never renew, you never build this blessed national collective agreement of work, which is a skeleton, and you rely only on the supplementary company contracts, cited many times also in this decree-law, full of benefits, facilities, benefits for the artists. All right, all right. We also have the allowance of the fifth rope, they told me: if you pinch the fifth rope we give you something more. But is it possible for you to continue like this? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. Giro (FI-BP). Forza Italia will not vote against this measure, as Mr Cangini will say in his final explanation of vote. Of course this is a patacchio, a patacchio. Above all - I repeat - it is a resounding rejection of the decree dignity of the "ex" Minister of Labour Di Maio. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to begin by reminding everyone what culture means for Movimento 5 Stars. I reread the first three sentences of the culture program with which we presented ourselves in the 2018 elections. If we wanted to describe our idea of culture with an image, it would certainly be that of a plant, which has its roots solid and articulated in the past, which extends its branches towards the future and gives gems, flowers and fruits in a present that is renewed without end. This is the idea of culture from which we start to talk about the decree-law under consideration, which certainly aims to heal a situation that this Government inherits, after years and years of policies that have allowed within the lyrical-symphonic foundations to abuse fixed-term contracts and that did not provide to complete the organic endowments, leaving those who are the heart and essence of the activity of foundations - orchestral, choir and dancers - in precariousness. Years of governments in which cuts were endorsed, collective redundancies. Before, the PD colleague recalled the situation of the Verona Arena. The undersigned was in Verona, alongside the workers of the Arena, asking for justice against the Government of the same political color as the senator who recalled the facts of Verona. It is useless for us to compete on responsibilities, because responsibilities come from afar. This measure aims to begin to heal some vulnus that falls on the lives of the workers of the foundations. I would like to remind Senator Giro that thirty-six months are foreseen in this measure thanks to an amendment tabled and no longer forty-eight months. Perhaps Senator Giro distracted himself for a moment during the work of the Commission. Why am I talking about our conception of culture? Because when we talk about culture, we mean material patrimony, but also immaterial patrimony and this lyric-symphonic work and ballet are certainly a precious and predominant part. When, in fact, we talk about lyrics, we talk about our historical and cultural memory. It is an art form that has been, is and will be an ambassador in the world of Italian culture. It is a form of art that makes us nice, welcome, welcome, that always guarantees us a great welcome in every country of the world in which we, as Italians, go. It is not, in fact, "Suburra" that opens the doors of the world to us; it is the lyric. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you speak Italian in the world it is also thanks to the lyrics and to all those who study our language because they approach to study and to embark on a career in this world. This is why the opera is nominated for UNESCO to be recognized as a World Heritage Site; because it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Zeffirelli - I recalled in our speech to commemorate his departure - was a great director of opera and said: I have always thought that the work is a planet where the museums work together, beat hands and celebrate all the arts. It's true: when we look at a opera show, we see a singing, acting and even the ballet. This form of art is therefore one of those that opens up to our young people the broadest working horizons. I want to go beyond this decree-law because in this sector and in this country there is still a lot to do to make understand how important it is to invest in culture also from a working point of view. Culture is not oil, as I said; it is a source of renewable energy. Culture certainly eats, but it must not eat a political system that has made culture one of its bastions, but all the young people and all the people who decide to undertake studies dedicated to culture and who must have a basin of absorption in the world of work. Opera is certainly one of these basins, perhaps one of the most important. Looking to the future, I say that there are still so many things to do in the world of opera. In the Senate was announced the delegation for the reorganization of the live show and, in this regard, there are many things to do on the governance of lyrical-symphonic foundations. If these, in fact, are also found in the debtor condition that reminded us Senator Giro, it is certainly also due to governance and organizational and management models that did not work because the lyric-symphonic foundations were also used to park friends politically close, despite carrying on their shoulders a management legacy in other disastrous foundations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We need to get out of this perspective and predict that within the foundations there are skill-driven management models that are completely detached from politics. Only in this way will we really be able to embark on a path of rehabilitation of these foundations. Senator Giro rightly recalled the hybrid status of foundations, because they are foundations of private law that are recognized as a public interest. Then, once and for all, we must reunite with ourselves and decide what we want to do with these foundations, because the game of the private foundation of public interest has made sure that those mechanisms for which there were also meritorious foundations that promote culture in Italy but were politically linked in this country. But culture cannot be politically subordinated to some political force. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Culture must be free to express its important and essential role in a country, because culture allows people to have knowledge and those fundamental tools to exercise their free and critical thinking. Wanting to look to the future, I appeal to my Minister to have courage, very courage, because to do all the things I have said, that is to fight for more investment in culture and have better and more virtuous governance within the foundations, you have to have the courage to break down a system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to be free and have the courage to change people and to give the possibility that there is a real renewal. We should not be the ones to decide about these people; these people will have to be chosen on the basis of transparent curricula and able to prove their competence. Minister, you need courage. So, looking to the future, let me remind the Minister of the words of a great magistrate, who reminded us that in life it takes courage, because those who have courage die only once, those who do not have it die every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. To allow colleagues to attend the Ventaglio ceremony, I suspend the work of the Assembly until 14.30. (The sitting was suspended at 10.58 a.m. and resumed at 14.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u24	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleghi, this morning lacked Professor Carlo Federico Grosso, illustrious jurist and criminal lawyer, university professor in Urbino, Genoa and then Turin, where he held the chair of criminal law from 1974 to 2007. Professor Grosso has also made an important contribution to the political life of our country: city councilor in Turin as independent on the lists of the PC, he was vice mayor of the capital of Piedmont first and vice president of the Regional Council of Piedmont then; elected by Parliament as member of the Higher Council of the judiciary, he held the position of vice president of the CSM from 1996 to 1998. His whole life has been an interweaving of professional, civic and institutional commitment, a high example of how his competence can be made available to the community. His academic studies and public interventions show the centrality that he attributed to the affirmation and defence of the rule of law, in particular to his exercise in the jurisdiction, conceiving the process as the fundamental and public place for the administration of justice. For this reason, the sentence is pronounced in the name of the Italian people. The process, as it liked to emphasize on several occasions, is not and can never be understood as a search for revenge, but as an affirmation of the rights - of all, even those most difficult to recognize - and of all the guarantees. He did so by exercising the role of defender attorney and also as sponsor of the civil parties in important trials, such as the one on the massacre of Bologna or the one on the attack on the Rapid 904. He was also called to chair the Commission for the reform of the penal code, proposing solutions and drawing up contributions that still speak today. Having been lucky enough to know him, I want to underline the sobriety and rigor that characterized him in all aspects of life, a rigor that was never cold and detached, but awareness that, both as a lawyer, as a professor and as a man of institutions, he was called to represent others, citizens and the Republic. For him the rigor was respect for the neighbour and the institutions and was always united to the availability, the dialogue, the contribution to the public debate, to the increase of the competences and the civic sense in his colleagues, his students and in all the institutional fora to which he was part. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u25	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u26	Mr President, first of all I would like to give an indication and, if possible, to attach to the documents the report this morning, which I have not been able to finish. Allow me to make a few brief replies, especially to colleagues in the PD. I'd like to remind Senator Iori... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u27	Colleagues, it is difficult to follow the Presidency too, so I ask you to reduce your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u28	Please, Senator Russo. Mrs Russo, rapporteur. To Senator Iori, worried that only a few artists and workers will be stabilized, I would like to remind you that up to this moment the reorganization of the lyric-symphonic foundations has passed right through the cutting of the organic plant and layoffs. Therefore, even those few numbers that we can make to become stable jobs, thus guaranteeing the musicians a decent work in the name of culture, will certainly represent a change of trend, which wants to be announced by the measure under consideration, but which will continue with the delegated law for the reorganization of the live show, which will also allow the revival of the musical culture. I would also like to reassure you that governance and theatre management will be rearranged with a system that will reward merit and not friendships. I would also like to say to my colleague in the PD that it is not true that we have not accepted their amendments. I am thinking of Amendment No 1.7, first signed by Senator Rampi, but also Amendment No 1.14, similar to Amendment No 1.15. In addition, we have also adopted an amendment by Senator Verducci. The attempt to work together has been rewarded and well initiated. I conclude by wishing music and culture a brighter future. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u29	The minority rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.0.2, 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 2.2, 2.3, 3.13, 4.6, 4.0.1, 4.0.5, 5.0.3, 5.0.4, 5.0.5, 5.0.8 and 5.0.9, as they are outside the scope of the decree-law. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, it is also impossible, under the same rule, to propose 3.0.100 (text 2 corrected)/2 (text corrected) as it is not the object of the measure, while proposals 1,1000/100 and 3,102/100 which do not affect the text of the amendment to which they refer, but directly amend the text of the decree-law, are inadmissible. Pending the receipt of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.40 p.m. and resumed at 3.07 p.m.) Colleagues, since the opinion of the Budget Committee has not yet been received, I will suspend the sitting again until 3.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.08 p.m. and resumed at 3.21 p.m.) I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments 1.0.3, 1.0.4 (the latter two declared inadmissible). These amendments relate to musical bands, amateur music, choral groups and folk groups. The reform of the third sector has led to the complexity of these associations that need to be resolved, and this seemed to me to be the most appropriate bill to discuss these issues. We know the great value of music bands and their social value, of aggregation and above all of promoting local and folk music. I therefore ask the rapporteur to be able to turn Amendment 1.0.3 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u31	Does the rapporteur, Mrs Russo, accept the proposal to turn amendment 1.0.3 into an agenda? Mrs Russo, rapporteur. No, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u32	Mr President, Article 1 of the decree before us, as you know, deals with lyrical-symphonic foundations. We know well how much this provision serves, but the reasons for the urgency go to your discredit, Lords of the Government, because it has been for a year, the so-called Di Maio decree and the ruling of the European Court of Justice, that you know that the situation has become explosive, unsustainable for workers, for technicians, for artists and for management. We are talking about an area that is recognized as an absolute excellence worldwide, with a growing demand for the public: an absolute heritage of our culture and national identity that produces gross domestic product and wealth for Italy. And yet, you've been stopped. You intervene in extremis, in a reckless way, not worthy of this sector. It is your immobility that has removed from the country's agenda the theme of culture and put the system of lyrics back in front of the abyss because in October foundations would no longer be able to function and many fixed-term workers would lose their place, their employment. You should have inserted the issue into an overall vision, within the delegation on the live show that instead you continue to mold as a dead letter. We need a strategic vision that inserts the lyrics into the country system, within the system of cultural production and contemporary musical life; but there is not here. We need integration with the extraordinary heritage of traditional theatres - included in this decree-law through our amendment - with the heritage of regional orchestras, academies and conservatives; but here there is nothing, there is no idea for the coming years. This lack is a scar to a total art, the lyric, which holds together music, singing, acting, dance, writing, architecture, contemporary art, multimedia art and which is one with our history and is the vehicle of our language in the world. It is through singing, in fact, that Italian has arrived in the East: our language is loved and is among the most studied in the world. You degrade this heritage, its essential resource and value, which are especially the workers. In fact, in the short circuit of the decree Di Maio there is the risk that it will increase the precariousness, that thousands of professionals of inestimable value will be expelled. Do not resolve with this decree-law, because the rule on stabilisations and competitions, without resources, risks being a monco commitment and risks betraying the enormous expectations existing. Furthermore, Mr President, the Government's gentlemen, this measure leaves in indeterminate a fundamental issue, that of the private or public nature of foundations; an indeterminate one created by your Ministry of Economy, which risks blocking the theatres for fear of incurring sanctions, which makes all bargaining and productivity agreements difficult and agreements with workers to go on tours enormously complicated, which hinders the absorption of historical precariousness. You risk locking the foundations in the ordinary activity, the one that does not allow them what, instead, they have been doing for years (and it is their mission) and that we wanted: increase and intensify productions to compete internationally. You have been given a heritage of absolute excellence and your inability risks reducing it to something anonymous, not up to our history and our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u33	Mr President, I will only explain - because it is the only one alive - Amendment 1.66 (text 2), on which there is an ongoing intercourse. In fact, in the Commission it unfortunately had the opposite opinion of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the General Accounting of the State, even under Article 81 of the Constitution. I have tabled this amendment because I believe that the concerns of the State's Accounting Office do not exist with regard to the amendment I proposed to the second period of paragraph 2 (d) (2) of Article 1. They do not exist because, given the current regulatory framework, if foundations fail to achieve a balanced budgetary trend, there would be already very punitive rules against foundations. A first rule is the decree-law Bray, n. 91 of 2013, converted into law in the last legislature, when the government was there someone else, which provides that on December 31, 2019, if there are no - as I hope - prolongations, there is the compulsory administrative liquidation of the foundations inserted in the process of consolidation that have not managed to achieve balance of budget. Then there is the law n. 160 of 2016, of the minister Franceschini, always of the same Government, with urgent financial measures for the territorial authorities, that in article 24, paragraph 3-c, already punitive measures for the staff of the foundations if you do not reach the tendency to balance the budget. Therefore, they are all rules intended by those who today seem to be the champion of the protection of workers' rights. Since, in view of the existing regulatory framework, it seemed to me - humbly - that the period seemed superfluous and there is a conversation going on, I hope that there will be a positive outcome. I would, however, like not to have some crampons from those who have helped to create the situation in which foundations are located today because they used them as a parking space for politically close people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u34	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u35	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 1.6 (text 2), 1.7, 1.9 (text 2), 1.22 (text 2), 1.200, 1.48, 1.201, 1.55 (text 2), 1.60 (text 2), 1.61 (text 2), 1.1000 (text 3), 1.202, 1.100 (text 3), identical to Amendments 1.98 and 1.102 (text 2). I also propose the provision of amendment 1.66 (text 2) pending the opinion of the Budget Commission. Finally, I am against the remaining amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u36	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u37	On Amendment 1.66 (text 2) I would like to ask Mr Pesco for the opinion of the Budget Commission, because he has not received it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u38	Mr President, the opinion is in no way precluded if Amendment 1.66 (text 2) is reworded as follows: In paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, the second sentence, after the words "Ministry of Economy and Finance," when the following are inserted: In this case, since the amendment does not entail charges, the opinion is of no consequence. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the reformulation? Montevecchi (M5S). Mr Pesco, can you tell me again? PESCO (M5S). In paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, the second sentence, after the words "Ministry of Economy and Finance," when the following are inserted: It does not change the sense, it is clear, but it is pointed out that action is possible to rationalise expenditure before making cuts to the staff. We have opted for this rewording in the Commission, so that the intention is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u39	Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u40	Mr President, we have started from my initial proposal to delete the period, to move on to Amendment 1.66 (text 2) which transforms the obligation into a faculty and now we are faced with a text 3, which maintains the obligation - this is what I intended - to make it conditional on all other initiatives aimed at rationalising expenditure, before starting the procedure for intervention on the organic budget. If this is the meaning of the reformulation, I accept it, because it certainly improves the original wording of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u41	I would ask for the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on this reformulated amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u42	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u45	Mr Rampi, minority rapporteur. Mr President, we have waited two weeks to get the opinion on the amendments, then we have waited an hour to get the opinion of the Budget Commission and now we are faced with a sub-amendment built in this House, but it should follow a deadline to allow further sub-amendments to be submitted. We have been constructive as opposition, but we are now faced with a dialectic between majority and minority within the same political force as the majority. We're in Chinese boxes, not to mention the Matryoskes, which would be the subject of the afternoon. Let us therefore avoid proceeding in this way and move forward with the normal procedures of this Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u46	Technically, we are faced with a reformulation. We have listened to your proposal, Senator Rampi; let us now listen to the opinion of the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u49	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I understand that it is the Budget Commission that raises this issue, but the amendment is completely changed. On the one hand, there is a condition that brings the consequences of an approval of this amendment to be only possible: it is no longer a binding rule and this changes the end of the matter. We have the right to have the time to subempt, because the interpretation of the amendment is completely changed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The fact that there is a subject of internal debate and disagreement within the majority is a problem that does not really concern me, although I would have hoped that in the weeks of work in the Commission this issue could be put and resolved. I believe that time must necessarily be allowed so that the opposition - and perhaps even the majority, since it does not have clear ideas - can subjugate the proposal of the 5th Commission, which puts a condition that completely changes the effects of the amendment, should it be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u50	I understand, President Marcucci, but before I decide on the matter, I would like to know the Government's opinion on the reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u51	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u52	Colleagues, I propose that we allow a half-hour time limit to sub-empt the text of amendment 1.66 (text 3), without interrupting the examination of the other amendments. If no comments are made, this remains the case. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The amendment 1,200a is therefore incorporated. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.9 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.12, 1.14, 1.19, 1.20, 1.21, 1.35, 1.84 and 1.85 are therefore excluded, and amendments 1.17 and 1.201a are incorporated. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.12 and 1.14 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.9 (text 2). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,17 and 1,201a are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 1.9 (text 2). Amendment 1.18 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Amendments 1,19, 1.20 and 1.21 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 1.9 (text 2). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.22 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.28 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.29 is therefore incorporated. Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u55	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to make one technical point: the system for voting on Mr Garnero Santanchè's post does not work systematically. We do not want to interrupt the work, but we ask that we find a way to remedy it, even after that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u56	It's definitely there, even if not immediately. Otherwise, we'll ask the senator to vote from another position, like the next one, if we can enable her. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,202a, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u59	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, with this amendment we propose to extend the derogation to the existing provisions on the limitation of the use of fixed-term contracts to other sectors, such as public establishments, trade and services, small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts. The labour market requires greater flexibility in view of the effects of the rules of the so-called Dignity Decree. It is true that recent data from ISTAT have shown an increase in employment, but we must not greet them with triumphalistic tones, because - in fact - it is an increase in the number of workers, but also a decrease in hours worked. Therefore, it is urgent to provide less rigid labour contracts and more investment in companies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202a, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34 (correct text), tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.35 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.9 (text 2). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.43 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.46 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.48/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,48, tabled by the Commission, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1,47 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.50, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.51, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.52, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,201 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.54 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.55 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u63	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, with amendment 1.55 (text 2) we insert something very important into a measure which has had to be much subordinate to the directives of the State Accounting Office, which by its very nature accounts for and is little interested in what is the main function of culture. With the amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars, which is presented today as an amendment of the Commission, let us say that, apart from the numbers of budgetary draws - I hope that during the legislature, it will be exceeded as a vision, because we cannot reason in commercial terms and exclusively in terms of balance of budget when it comes to culture - we emphasize the importance of preserving the priority institutional aims of lyric-symphonic foundations in the protection and dissemination of the artistic and cultural heritage of Italian lyrical, symphonic and ballet for the reasons I have outlined this morning in general discussion. The opera, symphonic and ballet constitute a form of art ambassador of Italian culture in the world. We must not forget, in any measure, this with the good peace of the State's Accounting. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u66	RAMPI (PD). We have tried, as a group and also personally, to avoid entering into a controversy, in particular with the colleague who has just spoken, with whom there is an excellent relationship and we have discussed many times in the last parliamentary term. However, it continues to be somewhat unlikely that the opposition is part of one of the majority parties. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The amendment before us is absolutely pleonastic and says something obvious and obvious, but of course it is accepted in its current reformulation which does not entail costs, because there is nothing written and therefore cannot have costs, beyond that of the paper on which it was written, to reiterate a concept. Rightly, after all the words spent - including an absolutely excessive and worthy of the best battle in the last legislature - against the measures launched by our governments to try concretely, and not in words, to deal with the lyrical-symphonic foundations, once found to the government, understandably, the representatives of the Movimento Stars had to assume some of our positions and an exponent of the 5 Star Movement that remains to the opposition decides to make the opposition to its Minister and its Government. [[Extended applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Finally! RAMPI (PD). This is absolutely unbelievable, and we are not going to lend ourselves to this pleonastic senatorial chat. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.55 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.56 and 1.57 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.60 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.61 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.62 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.64 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1,65, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.66 (text 3), tabled by Senators Montevecchi and Vanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.68, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.68, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,69, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,69, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.70, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.70 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.71, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.72 and 1.73 have been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.74 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.75 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.76, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.77, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.77, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1000/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.78, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Verducci and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.79. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.80 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.83 has been withdrawn. Amendments 1.84 and 1.85 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.9 (text 2). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,202 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,86, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Verducci and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.87. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.88, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.89.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u70	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, this is a common sense amendment. Within each foundation there are three groups: artistic staff, administrative staff and technical staff. The amendment corrects a forgetfulness, probably; it gives the possibility, until 2021, to derogate from the rules in force in order to carry out, to a maximum of 50% of the available posts, the recruitment of technical and artistic staff, provided that they are equipped with certain requirements. The amendment calls for a balance to be struck. Clearly, if part of that grouping increases, there must also be sufficient administrative staff. It is therefore an amendment of absolute common sense, which says that the same arrangements for the permanent recruitment of artistic and technical staff must also apply to administrative staff. It is unthinkable that any of the three pillars could grow, but not those who then carry out the administrative machinery. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.89 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.90, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.91 tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.92 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.94, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.94 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.95, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.95 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.96 tabled by Senator Iannone, identical to Amendment No 1.97, tabled by Senator Giro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,101 is therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.99, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u74	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I regret that. We have managed to do some positive work on several amendments: two have been fully transposed and two have been absorbed. Something we built together. The amendment before us - as the rapporteur knows - whose absolute courtesy and commitment in trying to work together was, of course, not easy to accept, because it introduced very strong innovation. However, having been deposited over two weeks ago and certainly not at the last minute, without having to ask for that additional work from the Budget Commission which we have just had practice of, in that time you could probably try to do a work of in-depth analysis and guess that this could objectively be a great opportunity. What did we try to build? I say this to the House, because it remains in the proceedings of our work and because I think that really - I say it with great sweetness to the Government and to the rapporteur - you can start working on it today, so for the decree on live entertainment we get there with all the necessary rewordings. It is a question of ensuring that the workers of the show can be hired indefinitely and, if they then have unworked periods, as is typical and normal in this type of profession, they can have a cover for those periods. Today, if a worker is engaged indefinitely, he does not have cover for unworked periods, even if provided by law; instead, if he is hired for a fixed time, when he is left at home he has covers like the other workers. It is obvious, therefore, that the worker will choose to be hired for a fixed time and to remain precarious, to have the covers in the unworked periods, compared to being hired for an indefinite time and stay at work, because otherwise he would have periods of cover. We have tried to build a mechanism to cover unworked periods, because work discontinuity is normal in this area. But this does not mean that a person, especially the person who works in the technical apparatus, in the organizational part of this sector, cannot be employed indefinitely; on the contrary, we must encourage this to happen. Indeterminate contracts cost less and this is an incentive to hire; if there is also coverage of unworked periods, we are completing. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get ready for this. I understand that there is not even the possibility of turning the amendment into an agenda, and I regret that. I really ask you for an additional activity in view of the next decree-law on entertainment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u75	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.99 tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u78	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, the agenda for G1,100 incorporates the amendment tabled by us which proposes a derogation from the Dignity Decree for other sectors and not just for the lyrical-symphonic sector. I believe that this is an opportunity to offer more protection to workers who often work in black jobs precisely because they cannot have fixed-term contracts. I would remind you that the decree of dignity has also created an even greater discrepancy between private and public work, where still 10% of workers have time contracts. The amendment has not been adopted in this respect. We therefore believe that the agenda should be considered, because we really need to give incentives to businesses and opportunities to workers, otherwise in this way Italy remains behind, as recent data and statistics attest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u79	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.0.1 (correct text), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1 (correct text), tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.2 is not possible. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.3 tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.4 and 1.0.5 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u80	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2,100 and 2,101 and against all the other amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u81	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u82	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.101, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. Amendments 2.2 and 2.3 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senators Carbone and Giro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u85	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, given the next item on the agenda, we ask that the sitting be suspended until President Conte arrives.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u86	If there is no objection, I will suspend the sitting for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.24 p.m. and resumed at 16.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u87	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on alleged negotiations between members of the Lega-Salvini Premier party and personalities of Russian nationality. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u88	Dear President, dear Senators, dear Senators... FARAONE (PD). Yours are missing! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. ...if I stand before you today, it is because of my role and the fact that I have deep respect for the powers that our constitutional system recognizes to this House and for the high functions that each of you is invested in. I have never strayed from the intercourse with Parliament and I think you have not missed it... [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] I have spoken of the deep respect I have for this House. I have never avoided, I said, the intercourse with Parliament and you will not have missed that, on the occasions that I have been offered to speak in this House so far, I have always tried to prolong my presence in order to be able to listen to your replies as well. I do not regard the confrontation between the Government and Parliament as a harassment of our democratic system, but as the very essence of our form of government. From this meeting I have received the confidence, which has invested me in the office of President of the Council of Ministers and to this assembly I will certainly return, if ever the conditions for an early termination of my office should ripen. For many years we have been witnessing - and this is not just about legislative production - a profound transformation of institutional balances, which is benefiting the executive power most. I believe that we need to make every effort together to start a reversal of this approach. I have on several occasions reiterated my determination to speak as much as possible with the Chambers, certainly the contribution of method and merit, which each Member of Parliament can offer to identify the most appropriate solutions. I have met Members of Parliament over the past several months, including some Presidents of the Commission, who have returned to me the discomfort of a difficult intercourse with the Government, which may at times alter the physiological exercise of the functions, inspection and control, which are the responsibility of the Chambers. I have assured them and I will solemnly reaffirm before this House my personal commitment to improving dialogue between the Government and Parliament, a commitment that I will do everything possible to ensure that it is translated into subsequent behaviour. The confrontation between the Government and Parliament, so that it is serious and effective, cannot develop in a single direction. Today I am here not only to fulfill the duty of information, which is incumbent on the Government, but also to collect any indications that you wish to send me. In recent days some have intended to attribute to my prompt adherence to the request to report to the Senate a singular significance; some have even hypothesized that this membership concealed my personal intent to mark different positions within the government group. It is a reading that surprised me very much and I want to be clear on this point. I cannot predict whether this information will be able to fully satisfy the urgency of being informed by the parliamentary groups which have requested the request. However, I trust that, even because of the media attention that goes with this speech, we will achieve a result that is not negligible at all. The interlocking between those who speak to you and you who will intervene in response will help strengthen the confidence of the citizens in our respective institutions. This intercourse will help to reassure us all on the soundness and effectiveness of the highest guarantees provided by our Constitution. We now come to the facts and circumstances that they detect for the purposes of the subject of the information. Let's start with the news about Mr. Savoini. On the basis of the information available to the Presidency of the Council, I can state that Mr Gianluca Savoini is not and has not held formal positions as a consultant or expert for members of this Government. However, the same is present on an official mission to Moscow, which took place on 15 and 16 July 2018, following the Minister of the Interior and Vice-President of the Salvini Council, as I will clarify more specifically in the following. On the occasion of the visit of President Putin to Italy on 4 July 2019, Mr Savoini participated in the event that took place on the afternoon of the same day, the so-called Civil Society Dialogue Forum, coordinated by the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI) and the Italian-Russian Forum held at the Farnesina. As is well known, Mr Savoini was also invited to the dinner that the Presidency of the Council offered to President Putin on the evening of 4 July at Villa Madama: all participants in the aforementioned Civil Society Dialogue Forum were invited to take part in the dinner. The checks carried out by the offices of the Presidency of the Council showed that, at the Forum held in the afternoon at the Farnesina, Mr Savoini participated at the request of Mr Claudio D'Amico, of the office of the vice-president of the Salvini Council in Palazzo Chigi. Mr. D'Amico, who has the position of advisor for strategic and international activities within the office of direct collaboration of the vice president of the Council, Senator Matteo Salvini, has requested the invitation of Mr. Savoini to the Civil Society Forum, having written contact with the officials who are part of my diplomatic office. My officials did not consider that this request should be discussed, as Mr Savoini had been presented as president of the Lombardy-Russian Cultural Association: I would also add, and I would like to point out, that it was a previous moment compared to the news about the initiation of criminal investigations by the Milan Public Prosecutor. This is the reason why my officials sent this call, for follow-up, directly to the bodies that coordinated the organisation of the Forum, in particular - I have already mentioned them - to the ISPI and to the presidency of the Italian-Russia Forum. I confirm that Mr Savoini's participation in the afternoon event resulted in his automatic invitation to dinner and that this treatment was reserved for all participants in the Forum. The Presidency of the Council did not have any further contacts with Mr Savoini other than the one just described and summarized. As for Mr. Claudio D'Amico, I confirm that he retains the office just before indicated, which was conferred on him on September 7, 2018 by Vice President Salvini, with retroactive effect to date from August 29, 2018, and that he will end on the date of the oath of the new Government or the termination of the office of the Vice President. In addition to the information summarized above, I clarify that the visit to Moscow of 17 and 18 October 2018 of the Minister of the Interior and vice president Salvini was organized directly by the Ministry of the Interior and consisted in its participation in the general assembly of 2018 of Confindustria Russia, which is reported to have participated also Mr Savoini. The events and meetings following the event organized by Confindustria Russia have been private. For complete information, Vice President Salvini, as I anticipated, was present in Moscow also on the days of July 15, 2018, coinciding with the final of the World Cup of football, and July 16, 2018, for meetings with the Russian counterparts, in particular with the Minister of Home Affairs of the Russian Federation Kolokoltsev, with the Deputy Secretary General Averynov and the Deputy Deputy Secretary-General of the Venediktov National Security Council. On that occasion, Russian counterparts were notified of the composition of the Italian delegation through our embassy in Moscow, on indication of the protocol of the Ministry of the Interior. The official delegation, in addition to Mr. Claudio D'Amico, therefore included Mr. Savoini's name. This is the information that the Presidency of the Council has acquired that is capable of reporting to you. I didn't get any information from the minister responsible. As a protagonist and, at the same time, responsible for international policy so far followed by my Government, I believe it is necessary to give some clarification. The positions taken by the Government, in particular with regard to the Russian Federation, date back to a clear comparison between the two political formations that gave rise to the government contract. At the basis of the drafting of this contract - as you know, because it is public - there has been an intense confrontation between two distinct political forces and already this peculiar modus protendi has offered wide guarantees of a political position with respect to the Russian Federation, according to a linear path fully transparent, but not only: let me add that the fact that the Presidency of the Council has been called the undersigned, third person compared to the two political formations of majority, is another element that contributes to ensuring that the synthesis of the political direction of government, also on this side of international policy, has arisen under conditions of full guarantee. This, however, concerns the plan that we could define as theoretical premises. If we look at the dynamics of the implementation of the international policy direction, we have evidence that on the side of relations with the Russian Federation and with regard to all the related implications, our line has been consistent, reasonable and never unduly conditioned by disturbing factors that could lead to a deviation from our national interests. Even on the basis of all my findings of office, as they emerge from the specific attributions, responsibilities imposed on me in the matter of protection of national security, the state does not show any element such as to make me doubt about an undue deviation from the line summarized above, by one or more members of the Government. Our international policy line and our location have never been guided by the relations that individual political forces have been able to maintain bilaterally or even multilaterally with political forces from other countries that have or do not have responsibilities of government. Our position on Russia, in particular, has been determined by our national interests as defined by the Government in its collegiality, interests which also take into account, necessarily, our membership of NATO and the European Union. International politics was then entrusted to a maximum of 40 missions that I myself carried out abroad, to several meetings that I had in Rome hosting foreign counterparts, as well as to numerous missions carried out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Moavero Milanesi. Of course, individual ministers, in matters of competence, have contributed to the fostering of international relations in bilateral and multilateral terms, but my constant presence abroad and in international forums (including the G7 and two G20, UN General Assemblies and various European Councils) has enabled me to develop, also on the international policy front, the necessary synthesis to direct and coordinate a coherent general policy of government. No political force that supports the majority could have had the concrete possibility, given these premises, of being able to give an international policy direction because of the relations with individual political forces of other countries. I've always been very careful about this. Each political force is obviously free to cultivate relationships, even exclusively, with individual political parties from other countries and to appear with transnational political groups, but personally I have always striven to ensure that interests which, by definition, are partisan, are strictly considered at the filter of the needs of Italian citizens and national interests. And on this I will always be intransigent. NANNICINI (PD). He's the Vice President of the Council, President! Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Please, President Count. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Since the G7 held in Canada in June 2018 I have made it clear that for Italy, led by a Government that also aspired to change, our action would move in the wake of our belonging to such fora. Still recently, both bilaterally and at the press conference, on the occasion of President Putin's visit, I recalled the linear, transparent position of the Italian Government taken with regard to the sanctions regime. I have specifically supported this position, in absolute transparency, at the three European Councils in which I took part, during which the sectoral sanctions against the Russian Federation were renewed, which, as we know, are repeated on a six-monthly basis. I demand, therefore, the argumentative force and the linearity of action of our international policy direction. This point, you see, is very important. This strength and transparency have enabled me - they have allowed us - to always be consistent before all international partners. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. When? Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I have never had to change my position, either in front of our traditional allies, first of all the United States, or in front of my counterparts in the European Union, or with the other global players. [[Comments from the PD Group]] This consistency of position and linearity of action contribute to the credibility of the country system, which is a value that we must protect with all our strength. I come to the conclusions. The story that is the origin of this information... FARAONE (PD). In conclusion, you haven't told us anything, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you will have time to intervene later. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] You'll have time to say what you think later, be respectful. We have asked for information and the President of the Council is informing the House about this matter. FARAONE (PD). And inform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, President Count. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] , President of the Council of Ministers. If you'll excuse me, I'll come to the conclusion. FARAONE (PD). Please, finish. He hasn't told us anything. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. The story that is at the origin of this information appears now subjected to the scrutiny of the Milan Public Prosecutor who is investigating to assess the validity of any possibility of crime. We do not know what elements have been acquired in the proceedings or what consequences the current investigation will have. The Government's plan of actions and assessments is - I say one obvious thing - completely distinct from the specific initiative taken by the Milan Public Prosecutor. Surely in the state there are no such elements that can break the trust I have in all the members of the Government. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] As for the suspects, it is now known that among them there is Mr Savoini, not having been conferred to the latter official positions or relations of formal collaboration with members of government... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u89	I'd ask for some respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u90	Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I made a premise about respect... FARAONE (PD). We ask, too, Mr President. He was supposed to come in and make an information, not a catwalk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Respect is given to everyone. The President-in-Office of the Council is reporting, you have all the time, then, to speak. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Where's the information? CIRINNA' (PD). Where are the facts? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't give the floor. President, continue. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Something on the TAV! [[Comments and hilarity from the PD Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). Look at the empty benches, your majority! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's get the President to finish, and then you're gonna step in and say what you think. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I have made a premise on my respect for you and this House. I understand that respect may not be mutual, but I would ask to conclude. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] BELLADONNA (PD). There is also respect for the people! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. As I said, the plan of actions and evaluations that are due to the Government is obviously completely distinct from the specific initiative taken by the Milan Public Prosecutor. Surely in the state there are no such elements that can injure the confidence I have towards all the members of the Government. As for the suspects, it is now known that Mr Savoini is also present and since he has not been assigned to the latter official positions or relations of formal collaboration with members of the Government, there are not even the premises for the adoption of any measures of interruption of the relationship. There is, however, a reason for caution to be taken into account: I will endeavour to ensure that all my ministers and all other members of the Government are vigilant. [[Comments from the PD Group]] with the utmost rigour so that in bilateral government meetings... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). When does the surgery start? Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. You have called me to report; do you want me to report or interrupt here?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u91	Please, colleagues. I said you'll have time to answer. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You have five minutes, then, to answer and everyone will say what they want and feel. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I believe that the President of the Council should be allowed to speak; this is a matter of respect. Please let the President finish. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u92	There is, however, a reason for caution to be taken into account. I will endeavour to ensure that all my ministers and all other members of the Government are vigilant so that in bilateral government meetings there are only and exclusively officially accredited persons who, by reason of their office duties, are bound by the obligation of confidentiality. This is in order to have the maximum guarantee that the information regarding the activities of Government are, at all levels, managed and conveyed with the utmost care and the full reserve. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Embarrassing!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u93	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u94	Mr President, first of all, apart from the unpleasant interruptions - which I find regrettable - you started your speech by referring to the confrontation between the Government and Parliament. I thank you, but this comparison is not your concession, it is the Italian Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The Italian Constitution provides that your authority does not descend directly from the electoral body, but from the Parliament that gives you confidence, so everything that is a shared premise is simply an act due in respect between us who are Parliament, beyond the majority and the opposition, and you who are Government. I would also like to say something else: as you said that you are respectful of us, it seems to me that a part of Parliament is not respectful of yours. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am referring to these benches, which are empty, behind my back, of the Movimento 5 Stars, which are a political fact of first magnitude and which cannot be minimized, as if this did not exist. I make many remarks to my colleagues from the five stars, Mr Patuanelli, but I have never stressed that they are not present, because I recognise that you are always, on time, present in Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo.]] It is strange that today the President-in-Office of the Council is coming to make such an important subject known and suddenly your benches are empty. A little bird told me that a communication has arrived to the Senators of Movimento 5 Stars to leave the Chamber, which, frankly, is, in my opinion, an element of great institutional concern, which we have. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups]] The second point, Mr President, is that you were basically a little mischievous and in this you were a lawyer, I do not know whether of the people or of yourself, but you were certainly a smart lawyer, because you basically said that no political force could affect our government's position at international level for its vigilance. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but this is also an element of great institutional concern, because the fact that it is not the conviction that leads the political forces that have signed a pact, that is, the conviction that they do not violate the nation's unavailable interests, and it is only his vigilance that is the deterrent to bad behavior, even this - allow me - is not a particularly comforting thing. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giro]] With regard to Italy's linear position, I give you a tip: if we want to be linear, for example on the subject of sanctions, let us handle them carefully, because representatives of the leading government cannot declare in all fora that they are against sanctions and then the Italian Government, in the end, bend to vote on sanctions with other European governments. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] You lose credibility. Why do we not have credibility in Europe? Because we say one thing and do another, and that is what has happened on time with regard to sanctions against Russia. We belong to the Atlantic Alliance, thankfully (I am reassured by this and I would say that it is only missing that this statement is not reiterated here); are we Europeans? Yes, we are Europeanists, but some political forces of its majority, a political force, have found a way of isolating themselves in Europe when even the allies we had chosen, such as Orbán and the Poles, voted for the President of the European Union. Colleagues, we won't have the competition today. We are destined to have B-series portfolios for the inability to affect the Italian Government. That's the truth! And if we represent a different reality, we are on the moon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, I would like to make a comment on Savoini. I don't know Savoini. I don't know Vannucci. I don't know Meranda. And I have to tell you the truth. Minister Salvini, a few hours ago, said, "the Senate is looking for rubles." No, I'm not looking for rubles. I am a guarantor, against Salvini today, as against others in the past. For me, the investigation is done by the judiciary and not by the Senate. And when someone, improperly, even on this matter, proposes yet another Commission of Inquiry, I answer to remain calm. By commission of inquiry, in fact, we are transforming bloody serious issues into permanent political exploitations. [[Senator Giro's applause.]] I, however, want to end by saying this: I come from the past, as you know, and I have witnessed, in recent months, a continuous delay, on the part of my colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, towards the personalities of the First Republic, which I believe have, to a large extent, served the State and done so with decorum. Colleagues of the Senate, when Andreotti, Fanfani, Colombo went to Moscow, went there with lawyer Agnelli, who created Togliattigrad, creating thousands of jobs in Russia. They didn't go with Savoini and comrades! [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] Then, I ask you at least to raise the level of your attendances, because, to show up at official meetings with this "gentina," the State degrades. This, if we believe in the decorum of the state. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT-UV, FI-BP and PD. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u95	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u96	Mr Conte, you have rightly reminded us of the duty of a President-in-Office of the Council towards Parliament, and we, of course, acknowledge that you remember what this duty is: to report back to Parliament. Perhaps, if you would also remember other times that this is a parliamentary democracy, perhaps we would all be happier. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us be clear. I want to explain once and for all, so I don't go back on it, that nobody here asked for information or asked Salvini, the Vice President of the Council as well as the Minister of the Interior, to come and report on issues on which the judiciary is investigating. This is not, of course, a task for Parliament. Commission of Inquiry or not, there is an investigation opened by the Milan Public Prosecutor. We will see if there has been an attempt at crime and if the crime has been completed, but this task is part of an exclusive competence of the judiciary. The point is that he came to report you and not Minister Salvini. We have asked Salvini to come to Parliament to report on what has emerged from the recordings. You yourself have mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the international echo that these events have had. A remarkable international echo, certainly not secondary. We asked Salvini to come to the House. But the brave captain, whom we can now call the fugitive captain, because he flees from trials [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] , from Diciotti, flees when he must come here to try to tell the truth, Minister Salvini, of whom you, under the careful supervision of Minister Attorney Bongiorno, made, in our opinion, an accurate attempt to cover - and I assume all responsibility for what I say - lied. At first he even said he didn't know Savoini. Then a series of facts was denied. Savoini took part in the official mission of July 16, because it was Salvini himself who posted the photograph in one of his many tweets. Not only that: the famous cultural association Lombardy Russia, officially invited, is in the headquarters of the League. What emerged from the documents of the weekly "L'Espresso" shows that, even after 18 October, the negotiations continued. In all this, Salvini could have come here, as others have often done, saying that Savoini was a millantator (many defended themselves like this). But he didn't and we wonder why. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have come here to say that you guarantee the foreign policy of the Government, guarantee international agreements and guarantee the location of Italy. But the political point, on which this House had the right to hear Salvini and Salvini had the precise duty to come here, is the heavy shadows. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is this Government - and that is why there is an international echo of this - conditional or free when it takes decisions? This concerns Russia, but the same conditioning could be produced with other countries. This is the political point, the shadow that you have somehow failed to escape here. Now, I do not know whether colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars, not coming to the Chamber, are protesting against you for the TAV or against Salvini because he did not show up. I hope that these strong gestures, even with regard to their chief acquired Salvini, will be more decisive on important issues. But once again - I repeat - shadows remain for nothing escaped from his intervention, heavy shadows of conditioning; conditionings from Russia, but also conditionings related to the other event emerged, that of Arata, with Siri who even participates in the table in meetings with the social partners (other conditionings). That is the real point, the political point. Is this a free government, which acts - as you say - only and only in the interests of the citizens or not? These are the real issues, on which we have frankly had no element to reassure ourselves; we do not know whether or not the decisions taken are the result of conditioning. Look, with foreign policy and double-crossing, countries break their necks. I repeat: they break their necks, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. So other than autonomy, other than sovereignty, other than respect for our freedom and independence. There are games going on here; the way they have been discovered and the interceptions have come to light, it is clear that there is a very serious international issue. And I have to say, you did a covert operation here. He has come respectful in Parliament; but the shadows remain that you may be free too, but this Government, and above all a part of this Government, certainly is not free and probably continues to carry on from the beginning heavy conditionings of foreign interests and powers and contrary to the interests of the citizens of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u98	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we had prepared a speech which we must rewrite in full after what has happened, because, you see, images are sometimes stronger than a thousand speeches and a thousand words. And the image of an abandoned Senate, as the President-in-Office of the Council speaks, from the main party present in Parliament, which in theory should also be his own party, gives the dramatic idea of the situation in which this Government is placed. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Group]] The images speak more than a thousand words and are much more eloquent, Mr President. It is the image of a Government and a President of the Council that we do not know if it represents itself, if it represents the majority, as a majority and as many majorities, because every day the majority changes. On every subject, the majority have been divided and quarreling furiously for months, not weeks. You opened your speech - and we want to give you credit - by talking about respect, but we record that the 5 Star Senators responded to this offer of respect by publicly denying it to you, personally, institutionally and naturally also politically. I don't have to explain to you what this means, and what consequences it should draw from an attitude like this. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You are too smart for us to explain what politically means a gesture like this, naturally studied and prepared for a coffee table. The position of Brothers of Italy on this so-called scandal of Russia is very simple. We have at heart the interest of our country and the fact that foreign policy, on which Parliament should always be united, is not obscured or tainted by blackmail, conspiracy or other issues not known to us. With as much clarity, however, we must tell her that the story of which we know appears to us honestly as the script of a series B spy movie, with protagonists some characters of dubious standing, that we will not know how to define, if choreographers, millacists, people unjudged, which, however, seems more able to endanger one's own security than that of the country. Having said that, in the light of what has happened, we would like to make an appeal with all the seriousness that we have available: stop using Italy, our Italy (because the country is also ours, the nation belongs to us) for your courtyard quarrels, because people no longer understand them and they are archstuffed. Mr President, if the problem (clearly not said but understandable to all of us) of this resounding absence of the 5 Stars in this Chamber is the TAV, the fact that you yesterday - and from this point of view we disagree - announced on Facebook and not in Parliament the decision, however obvious, to proceed with the TAV, I would say to my colleagues 5 Stars that if they have coherence and courage, they come to this House and challenge this Government, or they all resign, because these carnivals are of no use to anyone. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And when you resign, take with you also the study of the costs and benefits of the TAV that the unnamed Minister has produced unnecessarily. I have finished my time, Mr President, our position is very clear; we would have liked to have detailed it in more detail, but if the political conditions are those that we are registering today, we think it is better to return to the vote. Let's give the word back to the Italians because this setup lasted too long. [[The Senators of the FdI Group stand up and display signs bearing the words: "TAV".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u99	I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u100	The session is resumed. Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u101	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, I would like to thank you for responding positively to the request for information from the Democratic Party and our President, Mr Marcucci. Thank you for that, with great respect. I cannot, however, thank you for the words you have said today, words which we believe are partly elusive and partly affected by obvious diversionary purposes. The effort you have made to talk about something else and not about the subject of the information is admirable in terms of physical commitment but is politically disdainable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have practiced towards her the greatest form of institutional respect that exists that is that of listening and the nourished presence of senators on our benches. Not so much respect for you has shown who left you almost alone at the government desks. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And above all, Mr President, the vast majority of the parliamentary group who referred it to the Presidency of the Council. You understand that what we see in this House today, that is, the almost empty benches of the 5 Star Movement, is a fact that cannot be diminished, it cannot be minimized: it has great political importance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since I have little time, I must give you reason for why I consider your words of today elusive. You have avoided responding, and I consider this to be very serious, to four issues, which are as heavy as boulders and floaters around this international scandal which led to the opening of an inquiry which - your goodness - the Minister of the Interior is pleased to define a pile of fantasies. But fantasies are not at all. What are the four heavy issues like boulders that you haven't said anything about today? First, do you think it's normal for Savoini to be present at the 4th of July dinner with Vladimir Putin? They made you say - because I believe that this is the reason for your words - that the opening of the inquiry was after dinner. It's true, but Savoini has been at the center of a press investigation for months. I emphasize this fact: since February 24 Savoini was a more than questionable character. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And he was present at the dinner with Putin. Do you think that's normal? He didn't answer on that. But there is something more serious: do you think it is normal that Mr. Claudio D'Amico, advisor for the international strategic activities of the President of the Council, but also a business partner of Savoini and his close collaborator in the Association Lombardy Russia, was responsible for the presence of Savoini at the dinner with Putin? D'Amico is paid by Italian taxpayers with 65,000 euros of salary per year. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In my opinion, you should have said here today that D'Amico does not deserve to be a minute more in his position and I don't know why he didn't say so, because maybe he is less free than he says he is, since D'Amico has been guilty of a serious fault, not only that of having provoked Savoini's presence at the dinner, but also of publishing in the past, news to push Italian entrepreneurs to invest in the Donbass, in violation of international sanctions. Do you want something more serious than that? Doesn't that mean anything to us? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Third thing you should have answered: do you consider it normal that the Minister of the Interior, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, lied to the Italians about your awareness of the role of Savoini in the mission of 17 and 18 October? You know that lies are acclaimed. Savoini was present and Salvini knew, so much so that he went to dinner the night before the dirty negotiation recorded by BuzzFeed and published; but for a few hours Salvini tried to say that he did not know who he was. His version held very little because he arrived a stream of photos and documents that showed that he knew very well who Savoini was and also what he did in Moscow. You didn't tell us anything about that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I'll add a fourth fact. The Minister for the Interior and Vice President of the Council of Ministers was unable to deny that he had secretly met - because this meeting is not mentioned on the official agenda...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u102	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u103	Mr Parrini (PD). Of course, ma'am. I have tabled seven questions, I have received two of them and no one has ever come to answer them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You will understand that my right as a Member of Parliament also includes asking questions. Allow me, I am also a little personally wounded by this call. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A little hurt, I didn't see that coming, Mr. President. I have tabled seven questions and I have been ignored and also blocked. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So the fourth question I'm asking you is this. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers was unable to deny that he had met on the evening before the negotiation of Savoini, in the premises owned by a person affected by sanctions of the European Union, his peerage with delegation to energy affairs, Dmitry Kozak. Do you know that Dmitry Kozak is also one of the victims of international sanctions? He is a person who cannot enter the territory of the European Union and the Vice President of the Italian Council of Ministers cannot deny that he met him secretly during an official mission. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do you realize the seriousness of this fact? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I didn't hear a word. I wanted to say a lot of other things. We are faced with tampering with the country's international credibility. We are faced with the compromise of its international location. We are faced with a government, indeed a government party, which is conditional - so it seems - by those who hold the reins of a country where things happen that disturb us: it is a country governed by authoritarian methods, the facts of the last hours speak of an activist for civil rights killed and an arrested opponent. These are very serious facts that I expected you to say something about. On Priolo News-Home, in the province of Syracuse, did you read the exchange of loving senses that there was between the Russian ambassador and Salvini? Have you read it? If you haven't read it, read it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's a shameful thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u104	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u105	Mr Parrini (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. The words of President Conte, to whom I am addressing with great respect, even if with severity, were made to reassure us but did not reassure us at all; let alone reassured us, President, that you say 'I guarantee'. You are a man of law, you know Article 95 of the Constitution. You are the President of the Council of Ministers, who directs the work of the Government, you are not directly elected by the people as President of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So if there's a minister who doesn't do his job, you can't guarantee anything. You should know that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This Minister is constantly on the run: on the run from explanations of EUR 49 million; on the run from the Anti-Mafia Commission on the Arata-Siri case; on the run from trials; on the run from my questions. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] He's on the run from everything. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u106	Please conclude, otherwise I must take the floor, because you have spoken twice, it is not fair to others.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u107	Mr Parrini (PD). He's the Minister of Escape and Treason, because he betrayed... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u108	I didn't say take the word off. I didn't say take the word off. Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u109	Mr Parrini (PD). President, three words, because I have to explain. I never use words at random. He is the Minister of the Escape, for the reasons I have said, and of the betrayal, because thus fleeing from his institutional duties he betrayed those duties themselves and the institutions of this country and you should feel the full weight of it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u110	VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. And you're an accomplice! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u111	Very illustrious President of the Council, very distinguished members of the Government, fellow Senators and Senator colleagues, we note the diligence with which the President of the Council has responded to the request made by the minority, by the Democratic Party, which calls for account of the alleged secret negotiations between representatives of the League and representatives of Russian nationality. Even when you write the letters, since I know some of your colleagues you guarantee, you write: "Presumed", they are not done because there is the judiciary that is investigating. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It doesn't honor your colleagues. President, we are sure that the same diligence will be on your part in coming to the House to report on the new European stability mechanism, the so-called fund saves states which, in our view, is much more interesting for the future of our country than the imaginative assumptions and legends of international plotts we are talking about here today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] After all, ladies and gentlemen, you all know - and journalists in the forums also know - that we are talking about nothing. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We're talking about something closer to fiction than the truth. Some fellow journalist quoted Totò's film selling Trevi's fountain. It's okay. There are no rubles; there is no gas oil; there are no ships carrying barrels, if anything there is some NGO led by the PD. [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u112	I find it frankly intolerable because no one has ever interrupted you, let me speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u113	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying that you don't see ships carrying barrels of kerosene, but if anything you see some NGO led by the PD that puts at risk the safety and safety of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The judiciary should do its job and make it clear. Let's hope you do everything quickly. I think, in fact, that this country will be better when politicians do politicians and magistrates do magistrates. I think that's fair and clear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] It is normal - we expected - for PD to exploit this case. It has not been done so much to create cracks within the majority because alternative assumptions to the yellow-green government, in my opinion, do not wish them either. Between early elections, a technical government and another kind of government, I'd say you've been our best allies forever. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Valente]] It was done rather because it had to begin to weaken Salvini, who at national level began to take more and more positions, while the League Party grew and, above all, began to become a point of reference at international level. That is the real goal. The news of the week we give it to you: again this time the PD did not make it because the League has climbed in consent and has not lost any kind of international relationship. Given the period, I would say: postponed to September. Maybe under the umbrella, refreshing the memory a little, you can think of some other ideas to submit. It also makes us smile that these accusations of international conspiracy, high treason and at-risk democracy come from the heirs of that PCI which was maneuvered and financed by the Soviet Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Have you not forgotten Comrade Mitrokhin and the famous whitewashed dossier, according to some members of the then Commission of Inquiry, to hide, perhaps, possible financing from Russia at Dark Shops? [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). President, call him back too! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It would have been much better to speak in this Chamber - and I say this in the words of my colleague in the Democratic Party - of serious facts and perhaps of the Bible's scandal, of the Bible's horrors. Maybe this was better. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Children led to remember abuses they have never suffered, taken away from their parents, to give them to friends, acquaintances and rainbow couples. This is what happened. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u114	Please, you don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u115	[[Vivacious and prolonged protests from the PD Group]] You don't understand anything from here. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, can I finish? [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u116	You don't understand anything from here. If you keep screaming, we don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u117	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, if I may close my speech... Conclude, Senator Romeo. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I conclude by saying that, unlike what Senator Casini said... LAUS (PD). You hit rock bottom, Romeo! Mr Marcucci (PD). Shame! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...we are available... [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). You have to tell her! BELLANOVA (PD). Children always respect each other, regardless of the color of the skin! Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand what they're saying. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll finish! Be patient for a few more seconds. I was saying that we are very much available to a committee of inquiry into the financing of parties. Mr Marcucci (PD). On the League? Good! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are available, without any problem, from the Red Coops to Mafia Capital [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and above all it will be an opportunity not only to speak, as you said, of the 49 million euros (which you know well not to be 49 million, but 800,000 euros: read the cards), but of the 107 million euros that the Renzi Government has paid to pay off the debts of the Unity. That's what we want to talk about! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u118	Senator Romeo, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u119	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Nothing personal, but also this time: "hello PD"! [[Live and sustained applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, whose senators stand up. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). Children must always be respected! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u120	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as it remains in this House, there is yet another paradox of a legislature which is already handed over to the annals as far as irritality and strangeness are concerned. It is a Kafkian situation, in which the President of the Council comes to Parliament on behalf of third parties and not to report facts or assessments on a case, but to summarize, as he has just done, press reports of which we have already read abundantly. Let us be honest, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are here not so much to meet the demands of a part of the opposition, but you are here to meet the propaganda needs of a part of your own majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] He has been fighting over everything for months, condemning the country to paralysis, decline and irrelevance. If anything, he should have reported today, here, on the current government crisis. You are surprised, but according to some, your presence here today is functional to cultivate your personal ambitions, weaken your Minister of the Interior and accredit yourself as the homo novus of a new and different season. Mr President, the institutions are not a battlefield and a land of conquest. We say this to you and we want to remind all of us, forces of majority and also to certain forgetful opposition. I say this because a parliamentary committee of inquiry into Russiagate has been called upon in recent days, but I would like to remind the friends of the PD that, if ever there is to be a Commission of Inquiry, it cannot address the issue of foreign funding only in the time frame, in the horizon and in the direction of its own convenience. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Institutions are still serious for us. But what is Russiagate? In the state it is frankly difficult to say, because it is nothing. We affirm this not only because Forza Italia is today, as yesterday, the only authentically guaranteed force, that has never agitated loops, nor pulled coins. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We say this because, in the midst of so much clamor, in the absence of any feedback, it is not easy to orientate. In the state we record only contradictions, a stale rhetoric, imbued with moralism and rivers of hypocrisy. However, it is our task and responsibility, Mr President, to elevate the debate from the miseries of the news. In fact, if we were to treasure the lesson of history for once, we would use this circumstance as a useful opportunity, not to abandon ourselves to Spanish cries, but to reflect on the role, function and autonomy of politics and to ask ourselves how to really cultivate and defend national interest in a complex global scenario that, in the presence of a weak Europe, unable to reform and reform itself, sees Italy and our policy - all - even more exposed and vulnerable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We should ask ourselves how in a globalized world national movements can be protected from external interference and if anything these can be removed from world political processes, since they were not even in the past, during that clash of civilizations that was the Cold War, which saw rain on the Communist Party rubles dirty with blood from a then enemy military power of Italy and the West. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We considered it very serious, unacceptable and indefensible at that time for Moscow to finance political forces to carry out the revolution and we will consider it as serious if - and when demonstrated - it did so today. But let it be clear that we must consider every other interference and support from wherever and for whatever reason they come. Be careful to use, as often done in the past, double standards because someone, for example, could say: Why not the Russian money and those of some billionaire, who has already successfully speculated on the lira, yes? [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Behind both are different designs, but certainly not useful to our country. If we want to, we might as well continue with the examples. We want to tell us what has happened in recent years with China, who are the godparents and sponsors of yesterday and today and why the signed memorandum has distant roots, in the shade of which there are many interests, except the Italian ones? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I understand that the language of truth does not correspond to the canons of the hypocrisy of this time, but there is an unresolved theme, that of the financing of politics that, in the new scenarios, concerns our freedom as a people and as a free country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, the premise for a strong country is a strong policy, which is such even if it is financially autonomous; yet everything is done to degrade it, humiliate it and expose it to the mercy of external forces and interests of different origins and nature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - we risk dealing without proper awareness with an important and sensitive issue for our democratic life, which we should tackle in a serious, structured, unbottled and emerging way; a subject that is cyclically reappearing, because it is part of the weakness of our system and is a weapon in the hands of our enemies, especially if we are, as we are, deprived of any geopolitical strategy. We work and will fight for a free policy in a free country, as Italy must be, in which politics is made up of truth, courage, responsibility and where the sense of community and nation is high and strong. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u122	Senator Patuanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u123	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must first explain the embarrassment we feel at the moment as a political force and that it has also shown itself figuratively with some, indeed numerous absences at the moment. It is an embarrassment that has probably been read in a totally misleading way by some political forces. I would like to make it quite clear, Mr Conte, that we really appreciate your speech today and your willingness to come and talk about this matter immediately, as you have always done when your presence in this House has been requested, and as I am sure you will do for other issues called for by President Romeo and other majority and opposition senators, who will be requesting your presence in the coming days. The embarrassment is perhaps also due to the fact that the same respect would have been necessary also by the person concerned, who should have come here. I say this not because of the interest of part of one of the political forces that strongly support this Government and will continue to do so. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] I say this because, without going into the substance of the matter, this case could probably have been closed with four words much more serenely, without so much clamour and without the ignition of the House that we witnessed a few minutes ago. That would probably have been enough: the presence of Minister Salvini. There is no embarrassment about the matter, in fact: I think that there has always been a loyal collaboration between the political forces that support your government, based on the principle of good faith. We can all be wrong: the Ministers are wrong, the Members are wrong; I was wrong sometimes and some other colleagues from other political forces have done so, but we have always taken good faith for granted, as well as this time. What I have seen and which I have also been able to understand from your words, Mr President, is that perhaps there has been some superficiality in allowing access to some people, who have carried on in a totally independent way considerations and issues which, however, have a political relapse of some importance. His final words, when he said that he will have to put in place mechanisms of greater vigilance than the participation of the guests, also and above all in international fora, give a fair signal, which is not only valid for one of the Ministers, but certainly for all the people who can access these fora. I am talking about superficiality, which very often happens to other politicians too, especially those most in view; it may be the presence at a wrong dinner or a wrong selfie: it has happened to so many and it may still happen, but this element must not go into the background, because - and I refer to a few words from President Casini - the relapse of these events on the international level can be of significant importance. I want to make it quite clear: my political strength and I - and I am sure the whole Government does too - consider the Atlantic Pact and the United States to be indispensable allies. On the other hand, we have trading partners like Russia - and as it was for China, when we talked about the silk route - with whom it is normal and fair to speak commercially. It is clear, however, that in these fora it is the interest of our country, especially economic, to be carried forward, certainly not others, private or individual subjects. I won't take any more time, because I think a lot has been said. I just want to conclude with a reference to the Committee of Inquiry: I believe that this is necessary and I am very pleased that the whole majority is taking this request forward. The Commission will certainly have to highlight a system of financing parties without time limits, there is no problem, but it will also have to find solutions and deal with foundations. I believe that this is a problem that we should face again and we will certainly do so. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u124	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u127	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we have been informed... Excuse me, Senator Marcucci, what do you want to intervene on? Mr Marcucci (PD). The order of business. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] From the Democratic Party's point of view, which has brought to the attention of the Conference of Leaders the request for the presence of President Conte, whom we thank once again for having spoken, we have seen an information without the necessary clarification on this situation. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u128	Colleagues, please, Senator Marcucci spoke on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u129	Mr Marcucci (PD). So the Democratic Party - as I say in the Chamber - announces that it will immediately present a motion of individual distrust against Minister Salvini, the Minister who runs away in the face of his constitutional and institutional responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u130	We take note of that. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.52 p.m. and resumed at 5.56 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u131	We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u132	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3,102, 3,103, 3,104, 3,105, 3,106, 3,107, 3,108, 3,109, 3,100, 3,14, identical to Amendment 3,15, 3,101 (text 4) and 3.0,100 (text 2 corrected) by the Commission. I am against the remaining amendments. I also support the G3.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u133	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u134	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.2 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u137	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, if you agree, I will also make a single explanation of vote on Amendments 3.8 and 3.12, tabled by my Group. Colleagues, Article 3 deals with cinema. Mr. Minister, you deal with movies, but you deal with them badly. Sorry to say, but with your decree go to strike a norm that has a great importance and a great meaning that is not only symbolic and concrete, but also political. As for so-called commercial televisions, in fact, the obligation of first-time programming, the high-quality television band, from 6 pm to 11 pm, of the original Italian cinematic works of expression, restricting the obligation to Rai alone. This, Minister, is a blow to the Italian cinema that we would never have wanted, and that is why you are still in time to avoid this distraction by approving our amendments. It is a commercial blow to the works of Italian cinema, because the passages in the first time increase the value of the product on the entire chain in terms of rights and it is also a symbolic blow, because it breaks that already difficult relationship between the television audience, in particular that of commercial televisions, and Italian cinema; it feeds our market to the American giants (as already happens) and in the future it will give it to the Indian and Chinese giants. It is the opposite of what we should do and do, Minister, the great nations, the great cultures, which protect their cinemas to grow them, because that is what we do. But you do not, when there are great interests involved, the motto "Prima gli italiani" disappears for you, lords of the Government, and therefore via the Italian cinema from televisions, remains only in the Rai, in the public service, but also there hit hard, because you halve the obligatory quota. Stop, Minister, vote on our amendments, because otherwise you have lost your achievements in the last decades, wiped out at once, today, years of very important battles. With our amendments, we also ask you to strengthen the appropriations for the so-called selective contributions, which is not a complicated word, indeed it is simple and very important for those who try to make cinemas, because it concerns production, distribution and promotion of first and second works, the most difficult to do but the most important ones; it concerns so-called difficult films, artistic merits, documentaries and short films, that is, all the innovations, the new languages not approved, Minister, which do not correspond to the mainstream and for this reason must be protected and supported. But you said no to our proposal that it would first free up transparency and then new resources in support of the Italian product and you presented a technical report that says that the resources for these selective contributions are oversized. Minister, in my opinion you also know that this technical report is absolutely unfounded and not truthful and that it generates a dangerous and distorting precedent. On the other hand, there is a huge question that is not funded and this wall that prevents so many people from putting their talent and creativity into play raises it again and mortifies a generation, close the door to those young people who try to enter. You approve our amendments, because cinema is an indispensable force for our country system and this since the 1950s. Italy owes its strength to the power of the imagination that lies in the film story, everywhere in the world Italy is a beloved country even before it is visited and known and this is due to our cinema, which is an extraordinary carrier for our manufacturing, for our made in Italy, for our tourism, for the places seen and then chased and visited. To take the cinema to a suburban square, for example, means to populate it, to push away drug dealers, to create communities, to create security. By striking the cinema, however, as you are doing with this decree-law, hit Italy and hitting young people and independent productions demonstrated once again to do the interests of the strongest and conflicts of interest. Our cinema and culture don't deserve this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u138	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,102/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,102 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,103 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3104 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.105 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.5 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3106 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,107 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,108 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.109 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,100/1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.8 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.10 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.13 is not possible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 3.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,101 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 3.0.100 (correct text 2)/2 (correct text) is improbable. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.100 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.3 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u139	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to an amendment that we have just rejected and I would like to start by explaining those in Article 4. We have dropped the possibility of asking for an exception on an amendment which was made up of two parts. It had had a negative opinion from the Budget Commission because it had expensive parts, but there were two components in it that were not burdensome. One of these concerned the revision of the use of SIAE as a tool for the protection of copyright. So, not a reduction in copyright, but an innovation in verification and control mechanisms. We could also define SIAE as a technological innovation when it was born. Of course, today is a completely outdated system. There's a big music market that doesn't even travel on physical media anymore. So why should we continue to use such a costly system? And again in that amendment there was a part that concerned the internationalization of our young people in music, using resources that are already destined. I did not want to insist on this amendment, because I realized that it was not possible to accept it and that it would have to go back to the Commission. However - as I said in my speech before the suspension - the two weeks of work and the work on other amendments could have led us to be prepared at least on these matters. So mine's an invitation to the rest. The same is true of the two key amendments to this article, in which we are dealing with a subject which, in my opinion, has been very wisely and quite rightly put forward, that of adding an exclusion to the issue of the nominal ticket. The nominal ticket comes from an intuition, indeed from a will, that to fight the bagaraggio on line. I fully agree with the reason. Indeed, I was among those, along with my colleagues then in the Culture Committee in the House during the last parliamentary term, who raised the issue first and asked the Commission to carry out an investigation. We've done it, and we've identified possibilities. I remember very well, because I always like to recognize who brings positive contributions in the dialectic, that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars then, in that Commission, posed the theme of using better those computer systems that could go to hit and identify who put online sites that were built to sell tickets in secondary ticketing. That is, it's not about who buys the ticket and then maybe doesn't use it anymore and organizes to sell it, which is a fact that may not be good, especially if there is an economic increase and especially if there is an avoidance of copyright and taxes, but it is not an organized phenomenon. The problem arises when there are those (and it has been identified that someone is there) systematically puts on sale a large part of tickets at a price different from that to which they have been sold before and on that makes a (use a vulgar word, but normal) significant "crest," not recognizing the right copyright to those who have the right and not recognizing taxes to the Italian State. This thing must be fought and there are ways to fight it. It is necessary to urge Agcom to do its work, by virtue of an amendment which I had tabled and which passed to the House the other time, so that this could work. But we are deeply convinced that the nominal ticket is not the instrument to combat this practice. So we have asked you to review the measure and we will ask you again. There is an amendment that goes absolutely in this direction. In these hours we have tried to use fantasy as well and therefore, if you keep the point (wrong, in our opinion) in not suspending at least the judgment and in not applying an epoch to the nominal ticket, we will see to suggest a solution to have at least some verification mechanisms that allow us to understand if we are really right, as we unfortunately believe, in believing that this instrument is negative for the sector and that it does not solve the problem or if someone else is right.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u140	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u141	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 4.0.3 (correct text 2) and against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u142	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u143	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u146	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, Minister, we are in the Chamber and I repeat what you said at your hearing. I repeat this because, in our opinion, you rightly - as Mr Rampi has already pointed out to you - ask, within his decree-law, to exclude traveling performances from the rules on access titles names, that is to say, it adds an element of exclusion to what already exists in the law in force, creating a bit of confusion (I am not referring to its addition, but to the law in general). This morning, during the general discussion, I returned to the subject. Mr Minister, you too have had the protests of a sector that still counts in the system of the Italian economy: that of the organization of the shows. And it is a sector that brings benefits not only to those who care about that world, but also to the cities that host these events (the data show it). Minister, let us reiterate once again what has happened since the nominal ticket became effective: from the first days of July those who wanted, even for other reasons, to have the nominal ticket found themselves having queues at the gates before the events and even events that began with the people who remained outside. You, who in part verbally accepted the complaints we put forward, felt that you were beginning to apply the rule, to give yourself time to carry out the appropriate assessments. However, we are concerned about this assessment, because in reality there are problems now. Minister, is it possible that Italy is the only country to have introduced the nominal ticket? I ask you this question, because if other European countries, for example Germany, have solved the problem of secondary ticketing, i.e. on-line bagaraggio, making the companies that deal with this transparent and making sure to tax them, then putting in place a mechanism with what could be the Revenue Agency, why do we have to be short-sighted? Since you, too, in the decree-law under consideration raises a subject because it widens the mesh that had been planned when the issue was placed within the budget law and even adds a further element, why doesn't you say instead of repealing it and going on building a system? After all, as Senator Rampi said, in the last parliamentary term we had done a serious job together as a Commission and not as separate political forces, to try to defeat what from our point of view is a risk to the system, that is, bagaring, but that is not how we avoid online bagaring. Everyone's telling you. Amendment 4.1 is crucial to us because it meets those who work in the sector and consumers, because those additional costs of additional work for the nominal ticket will be borne by those who want to buy the ticket. Also, as the nominal ticket and the mechanism to change it is complicated (although they told you that you can certainly change it), I wonder who will be encouraged to take the tickets and give them away, since you could have this custom. We realize that we are hurting a sector by saying that we will take some time and then we will see, without wanting to immediately seize an opportunity that you yourself have taken; otherwise you must explain why you have expanded the range of areas that will not be subject to the nominal ticket, but remain firm on the position that for concerts over 5,000 participants should be there. Let me add one final remark. We tried to explain to you, thanks to the subjects invited to audition, that the system for which the nominal ticket is not good for jazz, but it's good for a concert of pop music creates only problems and confusion, because there can be pop artists who try out also in jazz: how do you consider in that case the nominal ticket? Does it have to be there or not? You're creating problems for the sector. You have the opportunity (we give it to you in a cross way because other political forces are also on this line) to avoid going to other problems. I would not like to have to vote on a further proposal in December after there have been six months of system paralysis. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u147	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.4 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.6 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.7, which is identical to Amendments 4.8 and 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u150	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, this amendment was based on an attempt to propose a moratorium on the nominal ticket. We had made our own a proposal that was presented at the time by a colleague of the League to the House, so it was not our intention. We have insisted so far, Mrs Malpezzi explained very well our position. A very serious debate took place in the Commission last night on this subject and the majority's willingness to adopt an agenda emerged. If the rapporteur agrees, then we ask that Amendment No 4.8 be transformed into an agenda which takes up the words of the Minister to the Commission. Of course it is not our position, but we think it is already an interesting point of arrival: take the necessary time, make a check, evaluate how things have ended and possibly give us time to correct. I think it makes sense that this expression of the Minister in the Commission should be taken as a commitment in this House by all the parliamentary groups. It is a very serious behaviour, the result of the work of a Commission. If you agree with me, I have already provided the rapporteur with the draft agenda, so if you would allow me to turn the amendment into an agenda, then the final arrangement would read as follows: "to consider whether it would be appropriate to carry out a reasonable check on the functioning of the provisions relating to nominal ticketing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u151	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u152	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u153	Mr President, I accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u154	I would ask Senators Cangini and Iannone whether they agree on the transformation of amendments 4.7 and 4.9, identical to Amendment 4.8, into agendas. CANGINI (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. IANNONE (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G4800 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.0.1 is improbable. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.3 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.4 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.5 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u155	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5.0.2 (correct text 2) and against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u156	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Giro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Giro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3, which is identical to Amendment 5.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u160	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, this very simple amendment would allow us not to go into contradiction again between what is being proclaimed and what is being achieved. The adoption of this amendment would make it possible to avoid a mistake by the majority and in particular by Movimento 5 Stars because you have also introduced a derogation for the award of contracts in this law. It seems that all you can do is introduce derogations on derogations on derogations, so that everyone can assign jobs to those who want and not using the laws. In short, the Government of change, supported by the party of honesty and transparency, is distinguished by opacity and restoration. You began at once: already at the time of the inauguration of the Count Government, here in the Senate, in his speech on trust, you began to undermine from the foundations the action of Cantone and ANAC and yesterday's resignation of Cantone from ANAC, very serious, are also daughters of that act. Then you continued: in the budget law you have raised the threshold within which works can be entrusted without competition and, subsequently, with the unblocking yards, you have given to "tend to infinity" commissioners every possibility derogating from every law, in order to assign the contracts to whom you want. In short, derogation, derogation, derogation, other than what you said before. Derogations even when you are far away from the emergency. What I regret to see is that, in fact, the biggest derogation you are making from the principles and values that you used to yell at the four winds and that the government has left no trace of itself. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u161	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendment 5.4, tabled by Senators Giro and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Giro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator Giro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0.2 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u164	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would have liked to speak in an explanation of vote in favour of Amendment 5.0.2 (text 2 corrected). I expected that this amendment would also go unnoticed, but that was not the case. The amendment is fundamental, because there are some local authorities that, accidentally or for poor management, have declared their financial failure, bringing to the bottom also musical institutes and academies of the fine arts supported by them. The State, up to a limit of €4 million for 2019, makes available a fund to save these institutions, composed of men and women loyally working. I expected this amendment to be voted on by the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u167	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I too wanted to speak on the same amendment, on 5.0.2 (text 2 corrected). This is an important text, which was presented to the Commission and on which we have worked together with Senator Rufa; a text which is now shared and which has fortunately been made admissible, not only in terms of matters, namely the application, as our colleague said, to those bodies which have suffered, out of inattention, error or perhaps contingent problems, a failure or a foreboding, but also, above all, as regards aspects of public finance. Clearly, I am referring to the institute I know, the Higher Institute of Musical Studies, Giulio Briccialdi, Terni. We hope that this amendment will resolve this and many other situations in relation to a subject that is fundamental, such as that of non-state music institutes or in the process of being statified.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u168	Colleagues, these are posthumous explanations of vote because we have already largely approved the amendment. Amendments 5.0.3, 5.0.4 and 5.0.5 are unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 5.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.6 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.0.7 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.8 and 5.0.9 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u171	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the tensions of the first part of this afternoon, we return to more calm but not less important issues, dealing with the conversion of this decree-law with urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. I would like to focus in my speech on the first part of this measure which is of particular interest to music, lyric-symphonic foundations and choral music. There is the possibility of making some brief reflections on the institutions and foundations that have the task of managing their programming and implementation, but also on the political guidelines that must guide their activity. We are talking about a cultural sector, that of opera music, not only symphonic but also choral, which represents one of our country's business cards. The great classical polyphony of the sixteenth century, the birth of the opera with the great Claudio Monteverdi, the Neapolitan school of the eighteenth century, up to the great opera tradition of Rossini and Verdi represent a unique experience in the world, a cultural and musical treasure that all countries envy us. Italy, together with the other great European countries such as Germany, Austria and France, represents the music and reference point for all those great musicians and for the public who want to quench their thirst at the original source of the great musical culture. The feeling - perhaps this is more of a feeling - is that our country does not know how to make the most of this strategic and important sector in a sufficiently effective and worthy way. Just think, for example, that the greatest performers of ancient or Baroque music - we speak of mostly Italian authors - are foreign (English, German and French). This is not due to the inability or inferior quality of Italian musicians; on the contrary, we often have excellent directors, performers and soloists who have to go abroad, where they become famous, or settle for proposals below their qualities in order to fully develop their artistic capacity. Returning to the merit of the measure, they once again bare the difficulties of management of lyric-symphony entities. We know they're police stations. Of course it is not the fault of this Government (there are thirty years of stratifications of financial-administrative regulations that have put these bodies in difficulty, of wrong choices both political and technical), but we believe that we cannot abandon this sector so important. I believe, therefore, it is important with this measure to try to put in condition these institutions, and the lyric-symphonic foundations in particular, to carry out such a decisive activity for our country. Institutions are burdened with debt, but their recovery is indispensable. I believe it is crucial to bring back to the centre of our country's political choices and more courageous solutions that truly place culture at the base of political action by trying to carry forward important investments in this field. I am talking about investments to finance ambitious projects, for a sector that could also make many families live in a dignified way. Investing in culture means investing in young people and giving a quality future to our country. Not least, there is the question of teaching our culture in schools. The history of art and music, unfortunately, are often the Cinderellas of teaching subjects, and we cannot expect all Italians to be aware of the enormous treasure we have available. So, to conclude, we have a number of doubts, despite the efforts of the Minister and the rapporteur, whom I thank for the work they have done. I therefore believe that the measure is still insufficient to relaunch such an important sector as music culture. I therefore declare the Group's abstention for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u174	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we think that the will expressed by the decree-law in question was certainly to try to create a virtuous system in the management of personnel employed by the lyrical-symphonic foundations, but unfortunately no transitional period has been foreseen because, while waiting for all the requirements of the norm to be carried out in order to identify organic plants, alas, the workers in expiration are already receiving the letters by which it is communicated that it is not possible to conclude other contracts in term. Hence, from this point of view, the measure raises some doubts in us, especially because the announced regulatory intervention was of another sign, having been announced as finally aimed at resolving the long-standing problem of the precarious, through the stabilization of the many precarious and as implementation of the European Court of Justice ruling of 25 October 2018. If these were the intentions and announcements that accompanied the measure under consideration, there is certainly no correspondence between the planning of the intentions and the result obtained. From our point of view, the forfeiture of the right of precedence cannot be accepted. This is an unfair rule, which unfairly affects precisely the most "historical" precarious ones, which are seen set aside. Therefore, I repeat once again that we do not really and fully address the problem of precariousness, but we risk feeding a war between the poor, opposing the new precarious to the old precarious, and also contradicting precisely those aims of protection of quality, which instead are proclaimed and that in the field in which the measure operates are the fundamental question. In this sense, I believe that part of the theatres will begin to stabilize the staff, while others unfortunately will not succeed. The risk, by conditioning organic endowments to sustainability, is that someone will be stabilized but many others will not. It is then clear that the thirty-six-month leghold trap, which has been inserted, will create a flood of problems from now on. You risk having even more precarious workers, because if they want to work they already know that they will have to do three years here and three years there, hoping to find work and maybe never mature a possible right to stabilisation. We hope that this is not the case, but reading the decree-law carefully warns of the risk of stabilising only a few workers. In particular, the dancing bodies, which are weaker, are likely to continue to be made up largely of precarious ones, but also in the orchestras there is the risk of covering only a part of the available places, not to mention the issues concerning technicians and administrative. It is also clear that we have a different problem from foundation to foundation and therefore we should first of all have considered the need to establish a criterion. The other key element is that, without some investment, we cannot talk about a genuine stabilisation process. Once again then - and this is another weak point - we do not want to clarify the status of the worker of the lyric-symphonic foundations; instead it would have been necessary to define once and for all whether they are public or private, while, as it appears in the decree-law, we continue with this ambivalence, which can only generate an infinite litigation. A further issue that we are very concerned about is the fact that the text under discussion revises the legislative decree of the then Minister Franceschini on the promotion of European and Italian works by audiovisual media service providers. In particular, after the European TV Directive without frontiers, the reserve for the production and distribution of Italian and European films and audiovisual films was introduced by Law No 122 of 1998. This approach, albeit with some modifications, has established itself and even in the novel text of 2017 the thresholds have been raised and made more binding, with a specific attention to the works of original Italian expression and to the most recent repertoire. Then came the pay and on demand services. The spread was therefore rightly applied to the hours of greatest listening and not counted at night. From this point of view, in our opinion, the new text goes back: we refer in fact to 2020 - if not 2021 - the entry into force of the crucial passages of that decree and water down the different roofs. In order to make the idea, in Article 3 there is, alas, a sequence of referrals, while the preliminary opinion of the parliamentary committees is removed. In short, Minister, it was necessary to have much more courage, not to postpone and move forward in the direction of promotion and in some way the award of Italian quality works. We also had the surprise of an amendment by the rapporteur, then accepted, with which, among other things, the percentage quotas for films of greater quality, financed selectively, which already had no substantial economic resources in the Franceschini law and which are now being further reduced. Major market works accounted for about 1,85 percent, and for commitment works, 15 percent remained. With our amending activity we have tried to increase at least the quota for selective contributions, even with respect to the Franceschini law. Another consideration must be given to nominal tickets, on which, alas, the amendments have not been accepted. In view of the technical and operational problems relating to the management of public safety of medium and large events and shows, it would have been important to extend by at least six months the entry into force of the provisions relating to nominal ticketing. I could continue by calling for another set of questions. I would just like to say, in summary, that this measure has certainly demonstrated once again many critical points and a great deal of weakness. Above all - and this is what is heartfelt - it has the merit of wanting to assume once and for all the question of the stabilization of the staff of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, even if then in reality, with respect to this intent, it risks to produce in the end a precarious situation, which in the entertainment world could last for a very long time. For all these reasons, I would like to say that the Senators of my Group are abstaining. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u177	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this measure leaves us very dissatisfied as the Brothers of Italy Group. I would like to thank President Pittoni, the Members of the Commission and the climate officials for their full cooperation with whom we have worked these days. In the same way, I would like to thank Minister Bonisoli for his kindness and for the availability always shown to the comparison, although unfortunately, despite these good ingredients, the result does not seem absolutely acceptable. As we have repeatedly pointed out in the course of hearings which took place in this year of work before the Joint Commissions, we do not think that the problem of the precariousness of the workers of the lyrical-symphonic foundations is getting worse. Article 1, which is at the heart of the measure that we are going to vote definitively in the Senate, basically violates European norms and what has been sanctioned by the European Court, as in the case of the Sciotto judgment. We would have expected, Minister, that in this year there would have been the possibility of putting in place a more courageous and decisive measure, which certainly was called to put a point in relation to a situation definitely inherited; instead it is very weak and does not put in hand the question of the management of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, really disastrous and in some cases horrible, as for the Theatre of the Opera of Rome and that of Florence. From this point of view, no clear answers have come in these months of Government of the change, that even on this provision seems more the Government of the contradiction because regarding the precariousness of the lyric-symphonic foundations it also comes in contrast to what affirmed with the decree dignity, wanted by the vice minister Di Maio. For us, the discontinuous work of the lyrical-symphonic foundations had to be protected by stabilisation. We are talking about people who on average have earned 10,000 euros a year, according to the results of an investigation, although difficult precisely because of the extreme volatility of employment, and we believe that they cannot wait for more answers. It seems to me that the measure we are discussing is disgruntled by workers and trade unions and we can only marry this battle. Similarly, on the whole, the provision and actions of the Ministry seem to abdicate to the function of leadership of politics in favor of bureaucracy, more concerned to command than to govern dynamics, even with strong responsibilities than in the past. Again, we do not take elements of discontinuity. We have tabled a robust package of amendments, precisely to ensure, as we are used to, that we have a chance of repentance by the Government. Only one of our amendments has been accepted and it seems to us too little, because the system of the measure remains the same and unchanged. We have had profitable interlocutions, but poor results, in my opinion. We have seen it as an act of goodwill to accept an agenda on the issue of title names, but we have already seen that the system does not work. Of course we must fight the bagaraggio, but we have already had testimony, since the provision came into force on June 30, 2019, of situations to the limit, with concerts begun and endless files of the people who were still outside. This will certainly determine an important damage to operators and users: it will be practically impossible to give a ticket. We have therefore made our utmost effort to cooperate, which unfortunately was not enough, and we feel deeply dissatisfied. The Minister, during the last hearing before the Joint Commissions, stated that he was not sovereignist and did not understand well the meaning of this word. We, waiting for the electrocution on the long road to Damascus, tell the Minister that being sovereignists means defending national interests, their identities and excellences in terms of cultural expression and certainly lyrics and cinema are extraordinary witnesses of Italian culture. Therefore, while waiting for the Minister to convert to sovereignism, we are absolutely not satisfied with this measure and we announce our vote against it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u180	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I must speak from my Group's benches, because this is a political intervention in which we want to express our Group's position on this measure. Ours can only be a position that looks at the lights and shadows and does so, however, not with that beauty that - sometimes - the lights and shadows can have in art or cinema: in this case it would be better to illuminate a little more. We will push with all our strength so that, in the future, there will be much more lights and spotlights on this sector that is crucial for the country. Why do we care? I'd like to start here. I said that at the beginning of the debate. Culture is a word that is sometimes abused a little and, then, you have to say what it means. The sector of those who work in this field is fundamental for Italy, because it is a very important economic sector and is definitely one of our strengths. A Minister for Economic Development should look at this area as a priority. It is also a fundamental area for democracy, because democracy works if there is a widespread culture, which is learned not only on the school desks (surely there is, for a very important period of life, and there should be much more, because it is an area on which to invest): the widespread culture is realized if you read more, if you see more films, if you participate in more concerts and if there are places of aggregation. This is a fundamental issue for us, on which we have spent a great deal of energy in the last parliamentary term. I remember that we had removed that habit, present - not always, but very often - in republican history that sees culture as a marginal sector when a government is formed. This is a habit that has partly come back. We remember - in the negative, unfortunately - that, on the occasion of his inauguration speech, the President of the Council did not give any importance to these issues. In addition, we must tell you, Minister, we are concerned that the two Vice-Premiers, the two majority shareholders of this Government, who often intervene on everything (and sometimes they would do better not to intervene on certain issues, because honestly it would be better for everyone), do not intervene on issues relating to your sector. I am unable to identify the position of one of the two majority forces - namely the North League - on the issues of culture. I cannot say whether I agree or not, because in so many years, listening to them first as an opposition and, today, as a government force, I have not identified a political line. I must say that today the situation has emerged, which I have stigmatized, of a political line, prevailing mainly on the subject of lyrical-symphonic foundations, which resembles more than what we had when we were in the government than the other government force. Those who went to the government took this position, although among the benches of that force today someone acted as if he were still in opposition. There are a number of amendments; of course, they have been withdrawn, but if one takes them and reads them all in a row, he realizes that they are, among other things, similar to those of other opposition groups and that they result in a political fact. Lights and shadows; we expect more. After a year of government we are convinced that the time is ripe to intervene significantly on the sector, investing important resources on cinema, because there are countries at our borders that risk to snatch what is our peculiarity, not only because Italy is an extraordinary place to shoot films by its nature, for how we found it, for how they conformed the events of geological history and for the great artists of the sixteenth century, the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, who gave us inimitable locations, but because we have extraordinary artists and craftsmen awarded worldwide. This is what we need to invest in, because it is not possible for other countries to bring film productions to them. We basically agree with most of the interventions contained in the measure on lyric-symphonic foundations. We tried to improve it: we, for example, introduced traditional theatres. This is a very important measure, but we want significant action and we have also tried to propose one, which we will resume, on the workers in the sector. In fact, those who work in this sector have a peculiar condition, have an element of discontinuity of work that is ordinary and is part of the characteristics of the work. However, work discontinuity must not become precarious; these are two different issues and this has basically to do with economic aspects, protection of pensions and safety at work. If there is continuity of pensions and safety at work together with an economic coverage of unworked periods, then we really transform not into words, not writing it somewhere, discontinuity into protection and we fight the precarious. We are not talking about an area in which one can think that a person is simply employed as in another sector; it will never be the case for an actor, a musician or for those who work in the artistic field. This does not mean, however, condemning him to insecurity or, worse still, to being almost a lover. It is well known that those who work in the sector are then asked what work they really do, considering their activity as a hobby to do maybe even for free. I repeat then that there are lights and shadows in the measure. We are pleased with some of the amendments that have been accepted and we have tried to propose others and more in the music sector. There is a long-standing theme, on which we have tried to find a shared solution, which concerns the work on the live show. We are convinced that the turning point that must take place in the coming weeks and months with the decree on live performance, which I believe will finally reach the Senate, is to fully address these issues. We are concerned about those who do not consider the subject to be fundamental in our examination, we would like to see more working hours in the Commission on this matter. We would like the Italian Parliament to be a great protagonist of these issues because we cannot fill the mouth of the word "culture" and make statements on the beauty of Italy and then not be effective and consistent. Let me give you just one example, Minister, I have to do this to you; we have not forgotten the Lighthouse Convention. We haven't forgotten. Is something wrong? Is there anything we need to correct? Every time I go to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they ask me why our country has not yet ratified the Lighthouse Convention. They also ask the head of delegation who is certainly not from my party. Since I would like to help my colleague to have an effective response, I would say that it is time to take up this issue again. All these reasons lead us to a vote of abstention, which is an abstention which must be interpreted in a very clear way. Sometimes when we abstain, it is said that the Democratic Party does not have a definite position: no, the Democratic Party has a very clear position. Ours is an abstention that sees the positive and wants to support it, because we will never oppose the country, we will never oppose those who work in this sector. So if there is only one useful element - and there is more than one - in a provision we support it, but ours is an abstention that also says everything that is missing and that we will be strong in pressing the Government on what is missing, because our courtesy and our sweetness must never be exchanged for weakness. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u183	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in converting the so-called decree-law culture into law, may I first express my deepest appreciation for the organic and significant work produced by the Government, in particular by Minister Alberto Bonisoli and by our fellow Senator Lucia Borgonzoni. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today it is, for me, an opportunity of privilege to intervene in the parliamentary debate: culture is the only good of humanity that, divided among all, instead of diminishing becomes greater, and Italian culture has always been a relevant and inexhaustible source that completes the existence of man, elevates and instructs him on the path of freedom and progress, offering him awareness of the self and of the whole. The cultural decree deals with topics of particular importance, first of all the revival of lyrical-symphonic foundations, in order to enhance their programming and development, to encourage the continuation of their institutional activities and, therefore, to promote the economic sectors related to them; by Legislative Decree no. 367 of 1996 promoted by the then Minister for Cultural Heritage, Walter Veltroni, the lyrical bodies of national importance and the other concert institutions provided for by Law No. 800 of 1967 have been transformed into foundations under private law, hoping for a system of mixed financing that could guarantee its industrious continuity. This has not happened, and to the exclusion of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan, all the institutions are starting to ruin, with always fewer public donations and, often, accumulating debts, liabilities and management irregularities. This tragically affects the quantity and quality of artistic production of the Italian lyrical-symphonic sector, in contempt for our huge heritage. The productivity of Italian opera theatres is by now scarce, and this shouts revenge: as I have just said, only the Teatro alla Scala, the most productive agency, is close to about one hundred performances per year, all the others, desolately, have significantly smaller programmings, which often do not arrive at fifty annual events. Moreover, in order to guarantee the protection of workers in this sector, which employs around 6,000 units, the decree-law intervenes on the modalities of access and stabilisation of the staff of the lyric-symphonic foundations. The specific and stringent rules, relating to precarious and fixed-term contracts in foundations, have become necessary: they find sediment in our culture of the civilization of work, which also in the artistic field is right to be applied with principles of safeguard and protection of the appropriate guarantees for the worker. In any case, assuming talented professionals for competition and time indefinite, as underlined by the Minister himself, is only the first step in a complex operation of relaunching foundations that Italy must feel the duty to realize, to pass on a unique tradition in the world and to promote new production. Unlike previous governments, which have regulated and produced more and more precarious, in the crazy conviction that working little, without guarantees and prospects was better than not working at all, so self-identifying its inadequacy to the construction of a solid and prosperous future for Italians, this Government instead intended to intervene precisely to overcome the scourge of precariousness and work instability, and often with great satisfaction today we are also verifying it in a sector theoretically niche like lyrics. The decree establishes a series of limits for the application of fixed-term contracts, imposing protections for the workers of the show with severe sanctions for the administrators who break them; they are rules that want to guarantee rights and guarantee protection, in a field, such as this, where for decades work contracts have been applied in derogation from the rules in force, with frequent abuses that have created discrimination and litigation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities in a country like Italy should be a dicastery able to have a huge spending capacity, just as our country is the first in the world for the presence of artistic, cultural, historical, monumental and museum heritage. Instead, the constraints due to the increasing external constraints have added, over the years, to a guilty disinterest in politics. With the decree culture appropriate resources are finally allocated for the protection and conservation of the heritage, as well as to support the entire ministerial structure, both at administrative level and in the management of museums, archaeological areas, libraries, archives and valuable sites. Our entire economy, directly or indirectly, draws an essential force from the cultural circuit, which must be, not only protected, valued and promoted, but become more systemic, usable, integrated and available. This has not only a significant value in the context of international tourism, but it is essential to constantly promote and promote the spirit of Italianism that the institutions have the duty to preserve and pass on. The distinctive features of our national identity, of our culture, of our primacy in human history are all found in the formidable and portentous Italian artistic and cultural production, which places our country on credit with the world, assumed that, for over 2500 years, Italy has donated to human adventure, art, science, thought, literature, philosophy, theater, music, law and even cinematography, fashion and high cuisine. Let me say, in the presence of the sacredness of this House, that most likely the entire planet would have been a worse place without the Italian contribution. The allocation of resources for the operation of the Mibac and for the protection and conservation of the Italian artistic and cultural heritage must be understood, precisely, as a gift that must imply a great vision, a strategy of wide scope that preserves and valorizes centuries of production, precisely in order to offer equally Italian primacy to the times that will come. Culture means creating and cultivating that civil consciousness that makes us a people and not just a sum of people. Precisely in this sense, among the most significant forecasts of the decree culture there are the changes on the programming obligations of audiovisual products original Italian expression, with forecasts for both public and private traditional operators and for the streaming operators with programming on demand. We greet with satisfaction the measures in support of the original Italian works in media programming, especially recent ones. On this occasion, I would like once again to thank the Undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni, who has spent his time as a government to represent this sensitivity, fully shared by our Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, simplification and support measures are envisaged for the sector, making more functional the way in which audiovisual media service providers must promote European and Italian works. In particular, the amendments concern the definition of the new rates of programming and investment obligations in Italian television productions, to a degree compatible with the economic prospects of the operators. At the same time, the measures in support of the original Italian expression works, which in the previous system were limited to cinematographic works only, are strengthened. In support of recent works, the obligations for on-demand operators are reviewed, with greater alignment with traditional television broadcasters, and a system of flexibility is strengthened without revising, however, the new and more effective sanctioning system. All this is a very important component of the decree culture so that, through the operators of audiovisual services, beginning with public TV, the Italian talent in the audiovisual is promoted and valued, with the production of cinemas, screenplays, documentaries, music and animation. While understanding the reasons of the networks, attracted by foreign productions, there is no doubt that it is a real national interest to enhance, promote and disseminate Italian audiovisual work, an indispensable element of our country's creativity, but irremediably exposed to a particularly incisive competition. As is well known, cinema contains in itself many other arts: it has typical characteristics of literature, similarities with the theater, not without music and figurative arts. Italian cinematography has been, for years, illuminating lighthouse on a global scale and the Italian film industry has also represented primacy and affirmation. It remains a tricolored boast of the scope of the production of Italian cinema, able to modify the costume, imposing canons of beauty and behavioral models, as well as to transmit and export to the whole world the same idea of Italianity. One cannot fail to lend sensitivity and closeness to this sector, as in general to all our audiovisual talents, assumed that Italian fiction and documentary are also great opportunities to be valorized. As I come to the conclusion, here I am just going to mention a topic that concerns live events. As is well known, since 1 July rules are in force for the identification of the buyer of the ticket to live events with a turnout of more than 5,000 spectators. This is the so-called nominal anti-battle ticket, a measure that has become necessary, although it is understandable a certain concern of the operators due to the bureaucratic burden. Well, when converting the decree-culture law into law, I feel like expressing at least an assurance of commitment - but this we have also seen with the approval of the agenda - and I can guarantee that it will be the government's care and this majority will closely monitor the application of the new rules already in force on secondary ticketing and verify that they are functional to the purpose that they have prefixed themselves, without this becoming limiting or excessively burdensome for operators and users. We want to continue to dialogue with those realities representative of the music production sector that have expressed scepticism about this measure and we offer our collaboration for a particular verification of the application of the new rules in the coming months. For too many years we were convinced that we were not able to impress and claim our role in the world and in the community context; and one of the ways in which our great feeling of Italianity was weakened was also not having invested in culture and art. Today, starting from the decree-law culture, we once again launch a challenge to the stars, knowing that this is only a first but essential step to put Italian culture and art back at the centre, to offer it again to the world, which once again, with admiration, will be surprised and impressed. I therefore strongly support the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u186	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, I recall that just over a year ago Minister Bonisoli had the kindness to come to Palazzo Madama to meet his colleagues from the Education and Culture Commissions of the House and the Senate and to illustrate the guidelines of his Dicastery. He gave a sufficiently rhetorical speech, if you want even quite banal, but absolutely agreeable: the concept was that we are sitting on a treasure and we must learn to value it. The treasure of course is that of cultural heritage. He said two things and solemnly said to her - he had the face of those who believe in what he says - making a commitment: to change and give new impetus to the cultural policies of the country and above all to find additional resources in the - just - conviction that every euro invested in culture will make much. On 9 July last, a little over a year later, Minister Bonisoli returned to meet with the Committees on Culture and Education of the Chamber and Senate to illustrate the decree-law that we are discussing today. The Minister complained very much about the fact that the Ministry of the economy evidently did not give him reason; it was necessary - he explained - to treat until the last second useful, that is until the moment of the signature of the decree-law. He also said that unfortunately at the MEF they do not like lyrics. It seemed to me to be the admission of a failure: obviously there are no resources, because we do not see them in the measure under consideration. We will see, when this or another government writes the next budget law, the extent of this failure. But I think it's a failure. As for the merits, I am doing mine and I take the evaluation of my colleague, Mr Montevecchi, Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars and already Head of the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Committee on Culture of the Senate - the party is what the Minister has said - which this morning urged the Minister to have courage, to have the courage to change and to work for a real renewal, evidently considering that the measure on the agenda was not in the sign of change and was not at all brave. I agree with you: it is not a courageous measure and there is no change compared to the modest and bureaucratic policies of the previous government. There are some things that could be done better and that - in our opinion - are wrong (other colleagues have spoken about it). Definitely doesn't stabilize precarious work in the lyric foundations. We are at the paradox - as Mr Giro reminded us this morning - which is why we are even abusing jobs act by widening the margins of precariousness. The question of secondary ticketing is evident in its banality: the problem is real, that of bagarinaggio, but the solution identified does not solve the problem, as it adds complexity to complexity. With an amendment we asked you at least six months before putting this rule into effect, as the operators ask us to do, but it will also harm users, but you have chosen not to do so: patience. What surprises us is the centralization of decision-making power, because until proven otherwise the former North League had in autonomy, in decentralisation a firm point of its cultural identity. In these days you are discussing autonomy and, since the measure has slipped in September and from September who knows when it will then be discussed, it seems to me that it is not a strong point of this Government. It certainly is not of the decree-law under consideration, since all decisions on contracts, concessions and contracts will no longer be taken by the superintendents or directors of museums, but will all be invoked to the central structure of the Ministry in Rome, thus making the Secretary-General of the Mibac an omnipotent figure, certainly more powerful than the ministers who protempore occupy that function. What surprises us, however, are not the details. If we take a step back and look at this measure with the eyes of those who believe that culture is the flywheel of the economy and national identity, it surprises us because there is no political idea, there is no vision, there is no strategy. The measure deals with the two main assets of Italy's culture and celebrity in the world: opera and cinema. I understand that the lyrics may seem elitist to you; we know that it is not, but perhaps with prejudice you have branded it in this way. But Italian cinema is the national identity, as well as being a thriving industry with over 173,000 employees. Macron's France - which is not a sovereignist and I personally do not like it at all, but it is the son of that culture that in the state, in the sovereignty and authority of politics and national identity has its roots, anyone governments - allocates for the audiovisual as a whole 4 billion every year, a hyperbolic figure compared to the modest appropriations of this Government. In recent weeks Macron has made available to companies producing French films 215 million to make acquisitions abroad, to acquire foreign production companies and to make French film production more powerful. Certainly it is not only to protect a sector of the national industry, but because it has understood that it is still true what Mussolini said in his time, namely that cinema is the most powerful weapon in the hands of the State. It still is today despite the fact that after the cinema television came, after Internet television and finally social media. However, the idea that we make ourselves of a people still comes to a large extent from the film representation that is made of it and this means for us Italians spreading made in Italy, export, tourism and international reputation. Therefore, perhaps producing series such as "Gomorra" gives us a certain idea, while the English, more attentive to their roots and culture, produce films like "The darkest hour," which definitely give another idea of themselves to the eyes of the world. France has banned Netflix's films from participating in the Cannes Film Festival, because they are not programmed to go to the cinemas. The Venice International Film Festival, which in its name evokes an alleged record, has opened its doors: it has become the Netflix festival, I believe for little money at the same time. I have nothing against Netflix, I am also a subscriber; but, when I see that Rai (Radiotelevisione Italiana) makes commercials and organizes programs to promote the series of great success and also beautiful - I like it - "La casa de papel" something doesn't come back. Where is the national interest? It is obvious - and only a madman does not see it - that the large digital platforms are threatening the national film industry. It is clear that global and globalising subjects such as Netflix are compressing the spaces of national artistic creativity, the national identity, a word that occasionally resounds empty in this House. Netflix does not pay taxes in Italy; it does not give a single job in Italy; it does not make its budgets transparent, so we do not know - and we do not know - how much its investments in Italy amount. I say Netflix because he is the most famous subject, but there are obviously many others. Then, from a government that is said of change, from a government whose forces of majority - or at least one of the two - evoke sovereignty, identity, national interest and the needs of the people, we would have expected something more, something else; we would have expected a policy capable of defending and enhancing the national interest that is identifiable in Italian cinema and the Italian film industry. It didn't happen. This means that you do not have a political vision, that you do not have an idea of State, that yours is empty rhetoric. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that this was yet another missed opportunity that testifies to how little you believe in the things that, at times more or less obsessively, you say. Moreover, it is clear that culture is not at the top of your interests insofar as the two vice-premieres, Matteo Salvini and Gigino Di Maio, talk about everything - and speak a lot, speak daily, speak obsessively - but I personally - and I believe no one in this House - have ever heard them talk about culture. So, if that is your attitude, our attitude to this measure will be abstention, resigned abstention and not because there is something in it that does not deserve to be voted on, but simply because there is not what would have marked a real change. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u189	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that one of the instruments that we can give to the new generations, so that they can always have the right measure of things, is the strength of culture. With this conviction I am going to present our explanation of vote to the Cultural Decree. For years, politics has been filling its mouth with sterile formulas such as: "with culture you eat" or, depending on the case, "you do not eat"; sterile because words have never followed the facts and to suffer the consequences has always been the last link of the chain, that is, the operators of culture. As Movimento 5 Stars we have made a solemn commitment to stand by them and today's vote will prove it. With this measure we finally address and resolve the long-standing issue of the precarious staff of lyrical-symphonic foundations; a twist that so far had never found room in the parliamentary debate, since everything was left to improvisation and the needs of the moment. We realized that the attention paid to this sector has been too often inadequate in relation to the needs, the prestige that opera theatres give, and especially the positive effects that the lyric-symphonic offer produces on the local economic fabric. Italian lyrical-symphonic theatres - as is well known - depend in large part on the contributions of the state, but also of regions and local authorities. Generally, although there are important exceptions, the support of private individuals is rather modest. That's why we at Movimento 5 Stars decided to dedicate ourselves to a recovery of what has proved to be a real minefield. Well, Article 1 constitutes the heart of this decree-law, including the reasons and urgency under which it is based. It is a delicate matter, for years - not only for the professionals, but also for those who have followed its attempts and the stages of recovery - suspended between reason and feeling, pride and prejudice, annoyance and charm, resistance and surrender. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But above all, it is a matter in which the public and private sectors are intertwined, and precisely this legal ircocervo has generated a series of critical issues that are at the basis of the serious state of crisis in which it has poured the entire sector. Our choice was to buffer with corrective intervention and simplification a legislative stratification that - between the end and the beginning of next year - would lead to expiry of the Bray law, with worrying and disadvantageous effects both on workers and workers employed in foundations, and for the very survival of the institutions. It is clear that this passage, although necessary, is not sufficient. The next step, what awaits us, is to promote and complete the recovery process, adopting more profitable management models, as well as the revision of the appointment methods and requirements of supervisors, in a broader framework within which the substance, the internal nature and the same principles of governance of foundations will have to be addressed. Only in this way can the opera, together with symphonic music, and the ballet be re-launched, but also carry out that cultural mission that belongs to each foundation and that is its own, as an institution of cultural value, engaged in the transmission of knowledge and garrison of the historical and identity memory of Italy. More in detail - from the point of view of recruitment - while in the light of economic and financial sustainability and in line with needs, we are concerned to achieve in short to the desired, necessary extensions of the organic envelopes. In addition to hiring permanent staff by experiment of appropriate public selective procedures, a transitional discipline has also been introduced, safeguarding and enhancing at the same time, through selective confidential procedures, the skills acquired by precarious staff, both artistic and technical, and administrative. In this respect, the work carried out in the Commission, in agreement with the ministerial offices, was decisive in order to amend and improve the text of the decree-law, in particular, in the more windy reforms that have been carried out so far and pending the completion of the organic envelopes, avoiding the lack of extensions, after having set a deadline of thirty-six months, so that the employment of the worker on a fixed time, the extension or the renewal of contracts were allowed. Probably the main problem that has been critical in the cultural heritage sector has been the combination of insufficient staff and structural shortcomings in the funds. It is clear that the preservation and enhancement of cultural heritage cannot be separated from a serious investment plan and that the long-awaited economic recovery necessarily passes, in Italy, through the valorization of cultural resources. This is the meaning of Article 2 of the decree-law and of the increase of the financing established there for the recovery and conservation of cultural, archaeological, historical, artistic, archival and bookshops, as well as for interventions of landscape restoration and other cultural activities. Simplification and support measures for cinema and the audiovisual sector are contained in Article 3. Among those adopted, it is worth pointing out that the ways in which audiovisual media service providers are required to promote European and Italian works are made more flexible and functional. Again: it is estimated that nine out of ten pirate films, available online, are the result of camcording, i.e. the abusive recording of a film work in the cinema. Camcording can therefore be considered as the primary source of piracy, whose profits finance criminal organizations and penalise all the workers and professionals involved in the realization of an audiovisual work. Well, in full respect of privacy, important measures are introduced to counter audiovisual piracy. A short ride, then, I do the secondary ticketing. I would point out that, if you know who you are going to give a ticket to, you know the name and, therefore, you may not indicate it. In the last budget law, in order to combat the phenomenon of bagaraggio, the obligation of nominal ticket for shows organized in rooms with a capacity of more than 5,000 spectators was inserted. With Article 4 of the Decree-Law, the category of travelling entertainment is excluded from the category of performances which, as from 1 July 2019, are subject to the obligation to use nominal access titles. Finally, with Article 5, according to a model already adopted recently for the Universiadi 2019, it was considered appropriate, as well as necessary, in order to speed up and simplify procedures for the conclusion of contracts for the realization of the services, as well as for the supplies and works instrumental to the event UEFA Euro 2020, to provide that Rome Capital can appoint a special commissioner in order to carry out the functions of contracting station, replacing the organs of the Municipality. I am obliged to inform Mr Cangini that my colleague from the Commission, Senator Montevecchi, speaking of courage in her speech, was actually referring to what we will be dealing with shortly, namely the measure relating to live entertainment and, of course, governance. Maybe we should avoid illations if we don't know the issues perfectly well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It should be emphasized that the Movimento 5 Stars will not stop here: the Movement will go on as long as it is possible to truly support and revive the culture and who every day spends himself for every form of cultural growth of our wonderful and extraordinary Country. Therefore, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u190	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 59 of 28 June 2019 on urgent measures in the field of personnel of symphonic lyrical foundations, support of the cinema and audiovisual sector and financing of the activities of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and for the conduct of the UEFA Euro 2020 event. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u193	CASTIELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak because of the truly dramatic situations that are taking place in the world of public health and, in particular, in the Campania Region, but also in other regions such as the Marches. In recent days we have had a very heavy investigation conducted by the DIA and, therefore, by the Neapolitan judiciary. The Attorney General of the Republic has adopted an order with 26 detention orders in prison. This order, of which the press has reported many passages, tells us that there have been absolutely intolerable things in terms of both the structure and the health organization and public order. This is important. President, among other things, it turns out that in a large Neapolitan hospital, San Giovanni Bosco, the sign of Secondigliano, where three camorristic groups converge, has established the social base and logistic structure, even conditioning the orientations of the trade unions, the closure and opening of the departments, the appointment of primary and nursing staff, then becoming a factory of false certificates for insurance scams. The most disturbing thing is that, while ordinary citizens without camorristic protection await months, if not even years, in the waiting lists, in San Giovanni Bosco they bypass the waiting lists and access to visits and laboratory exams without waiting even one day. This situation, according to the repentant, extends also to the other great Neapolitan hospitals such as Cardarelli and Pilgrims. Mr President, we are not in the presence of isolated facts, not only of dysfunctions in the health structure: we are faced with a serious disturbance in public order which creates deep concern in the social body. Today we have read in the newspapers other war bulletins: it is right to say so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Castiello. CASTIELLO (M5S). At the hospital in Caserta, the Hospital Sant'Anna and San Sebastiano, there were six orders of protective custody and the daily press spoke of bribes and corruption, widespread malfare, criminal partnership and everything else. The list is very long. Mr President, on the one hand, the draft law presented by our Group, the first signatory of which is Senator Auddino, which provides for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Health, must have a faster process, having been submitted to the Presidency last year. I therefore call for the urgent need for public order to speed up the legislative process and the Commission of Inquiry to be set up, because health has now escaped all institutional controls and is in the hands of the chamfering underworld. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u194	Senator Castiello, you should say that instead of the ambulance, your cell phone will go to the health facility.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u197	Papaevangeliu (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here today to give your attention to a long-standing problem that afflicts the province of Frosinone. We have learned in the last few hours that the Lazio Region is finally moving towards the end of the commissionerial management in the field of health. Next July 30 will meet the table for the vigilant ministries and the Lazio Region could finally exit from the tunnel of the commissioner management, in which it has entered now for a decade. Councillor Alessio D'Amato, in this regard, announced the announcement in the regional committee and in the meantime also arrived the placet by the president of the regional control section of the Court of Auditors, Roberto Benedetti. After having verified the 2018 budgets, the Court of Auditors has stated that the time is ripe for the closure of the Commission. We are all very pleased to hear this news. However, this is not enough, because it is not enough to return to a regime of ordinaryity: it serves much more. We citizens of the province of Frosinone expect the Giunta Zingaretti to start working actively and concretely to return what has been taken away from the Ciaciari territories in recent years. Well, beds and quality of health care are especially needed. Health is an inviolable right of citizens and it must be the responsibility of policy to ensure that this right is effective. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So that in the province of Frosinone there is an effective guarantee for our citizens, we expect steps from the Regional Council, since health depends on the region to which we belong. We are tired of being told that budgetary constraints prevent the implementation of effective policies for citizens and, now that the commissioner is about to cease, the Region no longer has any further excuses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u200	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, it is not possible that dramatic events of malasanity can happen in 2019. I am referring to the case of Santina Adamo, a young 35 - year - old woman, mother of a child, who died after birth at the hospital in Cetraro, shortly after giving birth to the second child. As can be seen from the press, the young lady went to that medical center to give birth to the second child with natural birth. Unfortunately, she was only able to hold him for two hours, for after that she passed away. The autopsy, performed on Sunday, July 21 by Cosenza's M.E., revealed that Mrs. Santina Adamo would die due to a bleeding shock that occurred two hours after birth. The tragic death of a thirty-five-year-old mother upsets her family, in particular, the whole community and all of us here in the Senate. It is not possible to die in 2019 due to a childbirth. Childbirth is a natural event; first she gave birth at home and now she resorts to a hospital structure, where she thinks she has the maximum care, but unfortunately there are dramatic events. The death of this young mother must make us think, it must make us react so that such events do not happen again. Unfortunately in medicine nothing is certain or taken for granted and the deception is around the corner. Tragic events can occur, but it is true that all preventive and operational procedures must be implemented so that predictable events can be adequately addressed. The birth points must be well equipped and the staff must be adequate, as numbers and professionalism, to deal with ordinary work shifts and to be able to cope with any emergencies/urgentities in order to guarantee the child and the unborn child maximum assistance. You have to think about the probable and possible complications a childbirth can cause. We must try to prevent foreseeable emergencies, with adequate, capable, competent personnel and with as many electromedical equipment and suitable medical devices. It is not important the hotel part of the birth points, as the hospital part, able to intervene, with capable personnel, in all cases of emergency/emergency. All personnel - medical, nursing and auxiliary - must be able to give adequate and immediate responses, activating all procedures without resorting to improvisation and implementing protocols and guidelines. The state of hemorrhagic shock is a dramatic event but, if properly addressed, it can be countered: by applying protocols, you can and must do anything to avoid the dramatic news. The tragic death of Santina Adam must be a stimulus to achieve, especially at birth points, all the conditions of maximum safety for mothers and infants. With the approval of the Calabria decree and consequent unblocking of the turnover, hospital hirings, stabilization of the staff and adequate equipment, the situation in the hospitals of Calabria - but I dare say also of Sicily - will be able to improve in such a way that the patients who arrive in hospital can be adequately assisted and cured. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Binetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u203	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, the engineer Giampiero Pesenti died this morning in his house in Bergamo. With his father, engineer Carlo, he founded and then developed Italcementi, one of the most important cement production groups in the world, which helped to make the history of the great Italian industry. The importance in the Italian finance and industry sector is testified by the many positions he held until a few years ago, when he decided to leave the leadership of his companies and entrust the helm of the group to his son Carlo. Born in Milan on 5 May 1931, Giampiero Pesenti graduated in mechanical engineering from the Polytechnic of his city, to receive years after a degree honoris causa in management engineering at the University of Bergamo. Immediately after his graduation Giampiero Pesenti began his activity in Italcementi in 1958, becoming its first general manager, then deputy director and, finally, president, until the transfer of control of the company, when it was sold to the German Heidelberg a short time ago. In addition to the presence over the years in several boards of directors of Italian and international companies, Pesenti held the position of vice president of Confindustria from 1992 to 1996 and was honorary president of the Pesenti Foundation. In 1977 he was appointed great officer and in 2009 knight of great cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. Knight of Labour since 1989, Pesenti also received the Legion of Honor from the President of the French Republic in 2004. Giampiero Pesenti leaves three children, Carlo, Giulia and Laura, to whom goes an affectionate embrace. With him he leaves us one of the most authoritative exponents of the Italian and international Bergamo industry, one of those entrepreneurs who went through an important period of the productive life of the twentieth century and contributed to make Italy the seventh economic power world; a visionary and tenacious man, strong, who made work, production and therefore social well-being a mission of life; pride for my Bergamo and for Italy all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u204	I associate myself with his condolences and with the memory of a family that has so marked Italy and in particular Bergamo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u205	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u206	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 25 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u209	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak on tomorrow's agenda. In the calendarization of documents defined by the Junta, it has always followed the alphabetical order, which can only be that of the Regions, and should therefore be Calabria, Emilia-Romagna and Sicily. I have now heard that there would be a different one, of which I do not understand the causes, also because in Junta they have always been treated in alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u210	Senator Malan, this is a proposal specifically made by President Romeo, who was welcomed by the Conference of Leaders. I therefore propose this order. There are the instruments to be used by you, if necessary, to amend the agenda at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u212	On what, Senator Gasparri? Gasparri (FI-BP). On the agenda, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The agenda could not be discussed. Gasparri (FI-BP). Why not? Let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you want, you'll talk about it in the morning. Gasparri (FI-BP). I'm the President of the Council. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Gasparri (FI-BP). We have always followed the alphabetical order and there is no written act that proves what has been said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What I just read right now. Gasparri (FI-BP). Therefore, it is not consistent with what happened in the Junta, where it has acted constantly following the alphabetical order of the Regions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not the election committee that sets the agenda for this House. Gasparri (FI-BP). There was no other part of it except the Junta Documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-137.ana.u213	Senator Gasparri, I was present at the Conference of Leaders and I assure you that this specific proposal has been made, which will be confirmed to you - not during the closing of the session - when President Romeo will be there. The sitting was closed at 19.49.
