ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Questions 3-00300 and 3-00318 on telemarketing will first be asked to combat unwanted calls. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u4	Mr President, I respond jointly to the acts in question, having the same same subject matter, bearing in mind the following. By the law of 11 January 2018, No 5, the scope of the public register of oppositions (referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic No 178 of 2010) was extended to all national telephone numbers, including mobile phones. With the future registration, all consents for advertising purposes expressed previously, without prejudice to those provided in the framework of specific contractual relations in place, or ceased for no more than thirty days, relating to the supply of goods and services, will be deemed to be revoked. The numbers entered in the new register may not be communicated, transferred or disseminated to third parties by the controller for telemarketing purposes not related to the activities, products or services offered by the holder. On the other hand, telemarketing operators will be obliged to consult the aforementioned register, at least monthly and in any case before the start of each advertising campaign, to verify that there are no numbers in their lists that have expressed the right to object. With the same law, new obligations have also been introduced for call centers, who must make advertising calls with clear caller line identifier or make use of numbers with appropriate codes or prefixes, referred to in Agcom Resolution 156 of 2018. With the latter resolution, in fact, it is expected for operators who carry out call center activities the possibility to use codes 0843 and 0844, identifying in a unique way, respectively, telephone calls aimed at statistical activities and those aimed at carrying out market research and advertising, sales and commercial communication activities. In the same resolution, moreover, it is established that if different contact numbers are also used, operators carrying out call center activities, in order to ensure that they can be recalled, will have to define the appropriate measures. In this respect, it should be provided at least that: telephone numbers used as caller line identification as an alternative to those with code 084, respond to an IVR (interactive voice responder), active twenty-four hours a day, providing the user with complete information concerning the calling company (business name, registered office); the user calling the IVR is allowed to be recalled if the user requests it, with the user's request explained by typing a specific key or by means of a telephone secretariat service and with a call made within two working days of the request. The reform of the public register of oppositions will be supplemented by the adoption of the implementing regulation, which will define the modalities and terms of operation. I would like to point out that at the Ministry of Economic Development a special interinstitutional technical table has been established, which has seen the participation of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, of the Authority for the guarantees in communications, of the manager of the service, of the Istat and of the associations of category most representative of the field of telemarketing, in order to collect comments and observations on the operation of the register extended to mobile phones. The process of approval of the relevant implementing regulation has been initiated and has been submitted to the scrutiny of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Authority for the Warranties in Communications, prior to the transition to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The two authorities provided their opinions, approving the general draft of the draft regulation and suggesting a number of amendments aimed at clarifying certain provisions which might be suitable for non-univocal interpretations. In order to incorporate the information given in the above-mentioned opinions, the Ministry of Economic Development is updating the draft decree. Subsequently the regulation, in compliance with the well-known process for its approval, will be submitted - as anticipated - to the scrutiny of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with the simultaneous acquisition of the opinions of the Council of State and the competent parliamentary committees of the Chamber and Senate. Once approved by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the regulation will have to be issued by the President of the Republic, registered by the offices of the Court of Auditors and finally published in the Official Journal. After this process has been completed, the service manager will have to adapt the system to the new regime, in accordance with the terms and procedures laid down in the implementing regulation, ensuring registration in the register of national numbers (i.e. more than 100 million, the Observatory's communication source) within one working day and updating the contact lists sent by telemarketing operators within 24 hours of receipt. With the full implementation of Law No. 5 of 2018 the issues raised with question will be resolved, ensuring greater control by citizens regarding the processing of their personal data for telemarketing purposes. Users will not be obliged to exercise the right of opposition under Article 21 of EU Regulation No. 679 of 2016 only with the controller, but will be able to do so through the registration in the public register of oppositions, also in a selective manner, as provided for in Article 1, paragraph 4, of Law No. 5 of 2018. I would also like to point out that the validity of the lists returned to the telemarketing operators following the question of the register extended to private numbers, and therefore to mobile phones, will also be defined in the aforementioned implementing regulation. Currently the validity of these lists is established in fifteen days for processing related to telephone marketing and in thirty days for postal advertising items. With the innovations introduced by the new law it is therefore hoped to implement a concrete reform of the telemarketing sector, with a strong innovative character, that allows citizens to exercise the right of opposition to advertising calls and telemarketing operators to be able to act in a transparent market and regulated by a clear regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u7	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr. Deputy Minister, I am satisfied with the answer, because in fact Law No 5 of 11 January 2018 placed order in this very sector, which had become a real jungle, from which the telephone user both fixed and mobile could no longer come out. In this way citizens will be more protected and will be able to defend themselves against proposals and sales that, in most cases, constitute a real stalking. On the other hand, it is also true that we must protect thousands of jobs, and therefore the young people who work in call centres and who are often also underpaid. I therefore believe that I find that right balance between citizens, who still receive phone calls and are constantly disturbed, and companies operating in the telemarketing sector, in such a way as to provide a right solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u10	Nocerino (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, I will be much shorter, because my question is practically the same as my colleague. I am partially satisfied, in particular with the disturbance that end users suffer because of calls that continue to receive from call centers at all hours of the day. I met the president of the association, who told me that the time slot for calling goes from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.; the time slot I think is extremely large. I hope that very soon - and surely so - all users can have more tranquility, especially when they are in the family and when it is more right not to be disturbed. In associating with what my colleague has said, I hope that this problem will soon also be resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u11	The following is the question 3-00788 on international trade policy guidelines, with particular reference to relations with China. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u12	The Senator refers to the initiatives related to the partnership between Italy and China promoted by the Government. The initiatives in question derive from the China Task Force, established in August 2018 at the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) and inaugurated on October 1, 2018, which fits in with the guidelines for internationalization defined by the directing booth chaired by MISE. Its aim is to develop a systemic approach towards China to address all aspects of bilateral cooperation in trade, finance, investment, research and development and cooperation in third countries, ensuring that Italy can position itself as a privileged partner and leader in Europe in strategic projects with China. This will encourage the entry into Italy of strategic capitals and direct investments of a greenfield nature, but also promote Italian exports to China and help Italian companies to engage Chinese investment programs. Among the results obtained by the task force are also the signing of three Memorandum of Understanding on the Belt and road initiative, e-commerce and start-ups, on the occasion of the State visit to Italy of the President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping, held from 21 to 24 March 2019, which sealed the excellent moment of bilateral relations between the two countries. The agreements are part of the 29 agreements, institutional and commercial, signed on 23 March 2019 between Italy and China in the fields of trade, energy, industry, infrastructure and financial, in order to promote a strengthening of economic-commercial relations between the two countries, respecting the strategic lines of the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic location of Italy. The Italian Government has framed bilateral relations within the principles that have traditionally inspired and will continue to inspire Italy's international action. In this context, a monitoring of the individual collaborative initiatives that will be launched downstream of the agreements signed in March has been activated to ensure that they are always promoted, focusing on the defence of national interests and the protection of strategic infrastructure, thus preventing the transfer of technologies to sensitive sectors. The collaboration between Italy and China will be wide-ranging, in line with the principles of the 2020 strategic agenda for EU-China cooperation and in line with the policies adopted by the European Union towards the Asian country. The memorandum (MOU), collectively and harmoniously defined with the involvement of all the departments concerned, was published on the MISE institutional website immediately after the signing, together with the list of institutional and commercial agreements signed, in compliance with the principles of transparency that characterized the action of this Government, and represents a framework political declaration for the collaboration between Italy and China in relation to connectivity between Europe and Asia. With this in mind, the memorandum will facilitate the creation of a framework to promote the maritime and terrestrial dimension of Euro-Asian connectivity also towards the Mediterranean. In the MOU we value the potential development of synergies with the Italian system of ports, transport and infrastructures, in coherence with the strengthening of the trans-European transport networks. The memorandum sets out criteria and interests underlying the collaboration, such as market access, the protection of intellectual property, and the identification of synergies according to established principles and standards deriving from Italy's membership of the EU. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Start-ups, on the other hand, aims to promote scientific and technological cooperation between Italian and Chinese start-ups. For this purpose, exchanges and collaborations are planned between the start-ups of the two countries, having as their final objective the further development of bilateral cooperation between Italy and China. The agreement also includes an activity to promote science and technology parks, industrial clusters and venture capital investments that can allow innovative startups a perspective of international growth, through the exchange of knowledge, processes and people. For that that it pertains specifically to the question of the port of Trieste and other Italian ports, it seems opportune to emphasize that the same ones are not cited in the memorandum, being autonomous subjects that they can define specific programs and plans of cooperation with the Chinese counterpart in the times and the ways that they will consider opportune.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u15	BY MAS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Galli, who explained to us basically the magnificent and progressive fate of nothing, because we have heard a long list of institutional arrangements - to be exact 29 - that should change the face of relations between Italy and China and, consequently, between Europe and China, being part of Europe. In the face of this long list of agreements, generally referred to, if it were true what you say, Mr Deputy Minister, we would clearly find ourselves faced not with a mere memorandum, as President Conte called it, but with an international treaty, for which Article 80 of the Constitution requires ratification by Parliament. So you're either there or you're doing it and you're playing on this. I simply recall, for the record, what the Minister of Economic Affairs had to say following President Xi Jinping's visit, namely that we would sell oranges to the Chinese. This is the strategic scope of the bilateral agreement. the question that I have introduced is very punctual and draws origin from what asserted from the president of the harbour authority of Trieste in occasion of the initial of this memorandum happened on 23 March slid. In such occasion the President of the harbour authority, that it responds to the Government, of which it is also expression in the act of nomination, had to declare - I repeat - that it was in reality something more than a pure book of the possible understandings, that is of agreements well precise regarding the utilization of the port, the infrastructures and the railway networks that concern that area. What we in Forza Italia and our President have been saying for a long time - so already before the election campaign for Europeans - is that Italy and Europe are taking a risk, faced with the underestimation made by the Government, or rather by one part of the Government, because I have never seen the League particularly attentive and warm on this issue, although I know that on this I have lent a Undersecretary to the Movimento 5 Stars, but these are the games of the three cards. In fact, I repeat, according to your list, the agreement with China is clearly more than just a mere memorandum: it is an international agreement. The risk is that, in fact, the doors to China will open. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, in the answer you have just read, Mr Deputy Minister, you have told us that this is part of the Belt and Road Initiative (BIS), that is, the initiative of the belt that lies in the strategic design that someone called predatory. American diplomacy has invited Italy to be very careful to take great care of the agreements with China, especially for the opacity and sustainability of the agreements involving the so-called BIS, urging Italy to carefully analyze the trade, investment and assistance agreements, to ensure that free trade is assured of the exchange and compliance with those rules that the Western world has given itself. I thank the Deputy Minister for the attention and care with which he has tried to give an answer, but - allow me - his response is a bureaucratic one. Here we needed Geraci, that is the author, the ideologist of the agreement with China, the one who fits overpoweringly in the story, also because, among other things, he teaches in China, in Beijing and, therefore, he knows these things well. In fact you have not answered us; you have not told us what you will do in Trieste, if you will do something, and what is the scope of the understanding. What we have read in the press in relation to the imaginative development, initiative, commercial and infrastructure networks and well-being programmes that would result from the agreement, is something absolutely imaginary, because you have actually merely made a list.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u16	I greet on behalf of the Assembly a delegation from the Association Pro loco di Bassiano, in the province of Latina, who is attending our work from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u17	Following is the question 3-00455 on the management of the building assets of the Municipality of Arzano, in the province of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u18	Mr President, Senators, the honourable Member draws attention to the need to ensure conditions of legality in the management of the Municipality of Arzano, in the province of Naples, with particular emphasis on the management of public buildings. In particular, it is reported that several buildings located in via Colombo district 167 have long been occupied by persons who are not entitled or suspected of belonging to organised crime. The current situation would have been facilitated by shortcomings in the administrative apparatus of the local authority, thanks to which organised crime has managed to impose its own will. In this regard, it is represented that investigations carried out by the State Police have shown that the buildings mentioned in the act of inspection union are the property of the Institute Autonomous People's Houses and that those responsible for building abuse and abusive occupations, detected over the years, have been the subject of referral to the judicial authority. With regard to the wish expressed by the Senator, I would like to stress immediately that the Municipality of Arzano has been subject, in recent months, to investigations by the Committee of Inquiry for the exercise of the powers of anti-mafia access, arranged by decree of the Prefect of Naples of 31 December 2018. The results of the investigation were examined by the provincial committee for public order and security, at the session held on 2 May last, enlarged in the circumstance to the participation of the prosecutor of the Republic in the courts of Naples North and the assistant prosecutor of the DDA of Naples. The Committee unanimously considered that the local authority's elective bodies should be conditioned by organised crime, seeing an overall picture of current, concrete and unique elements in this direction. Subsequently, on 20 May, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, decided to dissolve the institution for a period of eighteen months, entrusting its management to an extraordinary commission which settled on 10 June. I remember that the Municipality of Arzano, whose City Council has already been dissolved for mafia conditioning in 2008 and 2015, insists in a territorial context where industrial plants of important size are located and is characterized by the presence of criminal partnerships dedicated to extortion, money laundering, gambling, control of public contracts. From the accompanying reports to the decree of dissolution of the President of the Republic - it was published in the Official Journal of 17 June - emerge serious and widespread critical issues referable not only to some administrators, but also to the bureaucratic apparatus of the local agency. Among other things, there has been an interference of the political bodies in the prerogatives of the administrative structure, in violation of the principle of separation between the political direction and management activity, with favourable repercussions and repercussions for those related to organised crime. In particular, serious and systematic infringements have been established by the inspection body in public procurement procedures for the provision by the body of works and services. Significant anomalies have also been found in the context of the phenomenon of building abuse in the territory, considered attributable to the inertia of the Municipality in relation to the failure to execute sanctioning orders already adopted by the administrative administration protempore. As highlighted in the report of the Minister of the Interior, the conditioning of the Municipality of Arzano by organized crime has resulted in the decay and loss of credibility of the institution as well as the prejudice of the interests of the entire community and for this reason it has become necessary the debauchery by the State in order to ensure the return of the agency to legality. The trial, the latter, already begun for some months with the provisional management of the agency entrusted in February last to an extraordinary commissioner for the effect of the dissolution pursuant to Article 141 of TUOEL for the resignation of 13 municipal councillors. The restoration of legality will continue, therefore, with the action of the Extraordinary Committee which will have to deal with the critical issues that emerged during the inspection of the Commission's investigation and among them also the question of the management of the housing heritage referred to by the Senator. It is assured, moreover, that alongside the work of administrative consolidation, a pressing and continuous activity of the Forces of the Order will continue, also with the help of the reinforcement departments, in order to prevent and suppress any phenomenon of illegality on that territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u21	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I consider the answer, of course, more than satisfactory and take the opportunity to thank the Government, the Minister of the Interior, the Undersecretary Sibilia (who has the specific delegation to these activities), for the firm, prompt and effective intervention that has been carried out in defence of the territory and the Arzanese community. We hope that the action so determined and firm of contrast to the mafias, to the camorra, to the 'ndrangheta continue in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u22	The following is the question 3-00778 on the regulation of the Municipality of Calolziocorte, in the province of Lecco, on the subject of reception centres. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u23	Mr President, Senators, with the trade union act on the agenda, the question is whether the Government does not consider it appropriate and necessary to intervene in order to suspend the regulation approved by the Municipality of Calolziocorte in the province of Lecco in order to prevent discriminatory measures against migrants in relation to the location of reception centres in the territory of that municipality. It should be noted first that, as is well known, with the reform of Title V of the Constitution approved in 2001, all forms of control of legitimacy over the acts of local authorities have ceased, while the power to intervene in government for annulment under Article 138 of the Single Text of Local Authorities has continued to exist in a residual way. Such extraordinary annulment, inter alia, follows a complex procedure and cannot merge the merge cannot be based on the mere determination of the legitimacy of the act, finding its reason to be in the obligation to ensure the maintenance of the unity of political and administrative direction within the framework of unity and indivisibility of the Republic. This is, in essence, an extreme measure which allows the annulment of acts of local authorities in the event that they seriously jeopardise the unity of the legal system. As far as the current regulatory framework is concerned, it appears that the regulation in question has been approved by a majority of the municipal council of Calolziocorte with the aim of introducing a discipline at municipal level on the establishment of reception centres for migrants. In relation to the contents of that act, the municipal administration reported that, as part of a plan of government of the territory, it was considered to direct the choices relating to the establishment of reception facilities towards the areas considered most suitable to promote the integration of guests. It has also been specified that the territory has not been divided into areas in which it is required to provide for the construction of reception facilities for asylum seekers, and that instead sensitive areas of respect would have been identified in relation to areas already affected by particular criticalities, such as the one surrounding the railway station, for example, in order to reduce the possible development of social tensions. The mayor, interested in the prefecture, pointed out that the objective of the regulation would by no means be to create unacceptable and unacceptable forms of segregation, also highlighting how the activity of that municipality has always been based on collaboration with the reception structure present on the territory. As for the most recent developments of the case, it is reported that during the municipal council of 29 April last, the council majority declared to suspend the enforceability of the aforementioned regulation. In addition, there is a special technical table for comparison with the involvement of the council oppositions and other representatives of the local community, in order to define improvements to be made to the measure in question. It is also ensured that the prefecture will continue to follow closely the story by activating, where necessary, every instrument permitted by the current system in order to avoid limitations on the fundamental rights of the person.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u26	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the answer given by the representative of the Government, because it is clear in the back light that what we highlighted in this question has its basis, namely that the risks of discrimination that this regulation involved were real. In fact, the pressures that have been generated, not only by the Prefecture, but - I can testify to this - also by public opinion and the parish reality of that territory, have led the mayor and the majority of Calolziocorte to take a first step back from the adoption of that regulation. These are measures which - I know I use strong words - are at risk of apartheid, because when people who arrive in our territory, fleeing from particularly critical living conditions, such as a war, or from economic conditions of grave discomfort, they hear themselves saying that they cannot go near the station, the oratory or another place, I find no other word, Mr President, to define such a thing. I understand, having been an administrator, that there are rules that prevent the state from making a prior verification of the acts. I am well aware that there are no more regional monitoring committees (Coreco) and that there are no other instruments. However, it is also true that the State can exercise, in the appropriate forms, a form of moral suasion towards the local authorities, when there are conditions of particular danger of the acts which have been put in place and I believe that this is certainly one of these cases. Today we celebrate World Refugee Day and President Mattarella has been able to say that reception is a sacrosanct principle, which our Charter recognises. We know that Italy has always been at the forefront on this side and the President of the Republic has wanted to emphasize how meritorious are those who have defined humanitarian transfers, that is, the possibility, for people who flee from conditions of great difficulty, to be welcomed in our country. We know that this is an issue on which politics is divided in a tearful way, but we cannot allow that in our country, beyond the different political positions, there are drifts that endanger the freedoms that the Constitution guarantees, to the point of creating risk zones, that are defined inaccessible for some types of people. I therefore rely on the sensitivity of the Government, because it activates the necessary attention, through the Prefectures, so that they do not run risks of this kind. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u27	I do not understand whether there are any speeches in this House or any weather. [[Senator Pergreffi's comments.]] Senator Pergreffi, I'm sorry: there are a few of us, so your voice is very much heard. PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying that until you realize... president. Senator Pergreffi, either asks to speak formally or is begged to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u28	Following is the question 3-00796 on the possible appeal by the Government of the Law of the Basilicata Region n. 4 of 2019. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u29	Mr President, kind senators, with the oral question to Senator Lomuti, stating that the regional council of Basilicata expired on 19 November 2018 and that the President of the Regional Council, for the known facts, resigned in January 2019, thus remaining disciplined the powers of the Council, under the regime of extension, until the completion of the operations of proclamation of the new elected, from Articles 25 and 54 of the Statute of the Basilicata Region, which limits the powers of the Council to the adoption of acts due to the adoption of the acts deriving from the engagements deriving from the membership of the European Union, to constitutional or legislative provisions state or that, however, present the character of urgency and necessity, raises doubts of constitutional legitimacy on the law of the Basilicata Region 13 March 2019 n. 4, which includes additional urgent provisions in various fields of intervention of the Basilicata Region, approved during the period of extension. He also asked the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government whether he wished to propose to the Council of Ministers the appeal, before the Constitutional Court, of such a regional law or, in the alternative, of Article 12 alone, also for defects proper to that last article fully illustrated. That said, it is communicated that, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 8 May 2019, the appeal of the law of the Basilicata Region n. 4 of 13 March 2019 was deliberate, with regard to numerous provisions, including Article 12, rightly pointed out by the questioner, which goes under the heading "Modifications to article 3-a of the regional law 26 April 2012, n. 8 and subsequent modifications and additions, adds, after paragraph 1 of article 3-a of the regional law 26 April 2012, n. 8, introduced by article 34 of the regional law 22 November 2018, n. 38, the following paragraph 1-a : The 90-day period provided for in paragraph 1 for the presentation of the documentation required by Appendix A of the Regional Energy Guidance Plan (PIEAR) for the granting of the regional authorisation referred to in Article 12 of Legislative Decree No. 387 of 2003 may be extended for reasons independent of the instant's will, at the request of a party, for a maximum period of 60 days. The rule, therefore, establishes the extension, for a maximum period of sixty days, of the deadline for the submission of the documentation provided for by the PIEAR for the purposes of the regional authorisation referred to in Article 12 of Legislative Decree No. 387 of 2003. Such extension may be recognised, at the request of the person concerned, only where the delay is due to reasons independent of the latter's will. The above forecast, as regards the projects subject to environmental impact assessment (EIA), does not comply with the legislative decree of 3 April 2006, n. 152, which to article 27-a, introduced by article 16, paragraph 2, of the legislative decree of 16 June 2017, n. 104, address book "Providement of authorization only regional," previews to paragraph 5 that: At the reasoned request of the proposer, the competent authority may, for one time only, grant the suspension of the time limits for the submission of the supplementary documentation for a period of not more than 180 days. The regional forecast formulated in this way, in addition to conflicting with the aforementioned interposed state parameter, runs counter to the need for regulatory uniformity on the national territory, in open opposition to the parameter of reasonableness of the legislation desumable by Article 3 of the Constitution, as well as to the principle of good performance of the administration enshrined in Article 97 of the Constitution, since, by establishing a further period of extension of the procedure, it extends its duration for reasons independent of the will of the instant, at the request of a party, in the absence of logical and explicit motivational basis, making the authorization procedure arbitrary, thus conflicting with the canons of effectiveness, efficiency and economicity that must preside to the exercise of the administrative action. Moreover, the regional rule of this kind is contrary to the constitutional parameter referred to in point (s) of the second paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, since it intervenes in a matter, that of the protection of the environment and the ecosystem, attributed exclusively to the legislative competence of the State, in which the discipline of the EIA obviously falls. Article 12 of the regional law of Basilicata n. 4 of 2019 (since the questioner also devoted particular attention to that article) violates, therefore, Articles 3, 97 and 117, second paragraph, letter s), of the Constitution, in reference to the interposed state parameters cited by him.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u32	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, thank you to the Undersecretary and in my thanks there is also double satisfaction for what I have heard and for the speed of response. Unfortunately, however, the satisfaction is reduced not because of this Government, but because of the actions to be attributed to the past regional governments; the Basilicata Region, in fact, pays a blow as far as landscape protection is concerned, since entire edges of land are literally devastated by the proliferation of these wind turbines. We are talking about something extremely positive, since we are talking about energy produced from renewable sources and clean energy, which however cannot affect the landscapes of the territory of my region. It will be the responsibility of the questioner, or of the undersigned, in second order, to verify the legitimacy of the authorization procedures as regards both the applicants and those who benefit from this cycle of production of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u33	Following is the question 3-00521 on the marketing in Australia of wines with names detrimental to the image of Italy. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has repeatedly stressed the strategic importance of the international production and marketing of wine, considering that wine is one of the most representative quality products of Made in Italy, an emblem of the nation's value. The growth of our agricultural and food exports requires an investment effort on the excellence, the typicality and authenticity of our productions, among which is - with a strong export vocation - the wine, of which we are the world's leading producer. This administration strongly pursues the defence of the interests of Italian companies for the international protection of Italian designations of origin and geographical indications, alongside the actions that the protection consortia, recognized and entrusted by this Ministry, carry out in defense of protected designations of origin (PDO) and protected Italian geographical indications (PGI) and geographical indications (IIGG) against the countless cases of counterfeiting on the national, Community and international market. The technical control body of this Ministry, the Central Inspection of Quality Protection and Counterfeit Control (ICQRF), is called, through careful control operations, to protect the quality and identity of our products both inside and outside national borders. At international level, the ICQRF, as an Italian ex-officio authority and an Italian contact body in the wine sector, is the national authority responsible for taking measures to prevent or stop the illegal use of Italian PDO and PGI names both in the European Union and, in agreement with the European Commission, in third countries with which the European Union has concluded mutual recognition and protection agreements for PDO and PGI products. The names of the wines mentioned in the question and subject to usurpation refer to two Italian PDOs regularly registered and protected under the EU Regulation no. 1308/2013, Article 103, which would be the Montepulciano d'Abruzzo with a registered designation of origin (DOCG), recognized by decree of the President of the Republic of 24 May 1968 and registered in the Union with the n. PDO-IT-A0723 and the noble wine of Montepulciano with a registered designation of origin (DOCG), recognized by decree of the President of the Republic of 12 July 1966 and registered in the Union with the n. DPO-IT-A1308. The production and marketing of the wines referred to by the honourable Member does not comply with the terms of the Agreement of 30 January 2009 between the European Community and Australia on trade in wine, which provides for, inter alia, protection measures for wines with designations of origin and provisions on their designation and presentation. These cases have, therefore, already been reported to the services of the European Commission in order to enter into contact with the Australian authorities. I repeat here again the commitment already made through the control bodies of this Ministry for the protection of safety and the quality of excellence made in Italy on the national territory and in the world against any possible counterfeiting. The commitment is placed in the beehive of an always alive and continuous activity. Illegal behaviour also means protecting our products, and this is the priority objective of this administration, on the one hand, in order to safeguard the entire national production sector, on the other hand, in order to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u37	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the reply of the Undersecretary, Mr Manzato, whom I thank for his presence and attention. This is because, apart from the list of instruments and bodies responsible for monitoring, it seems to me that there are still too few concrete actions in place. Also considering that my question is dated 17 January 2019, I thought that in these five-six months one could imagine to intervene with greater vehemence since the names of controlled and guaranteed origin (DOCG) regularly registered, as I indicated in the question followed by the report of a well-known journalist, are strongly detrimental to the image of our country. I imagine then that to the announcements that often accompany the minister Centinario we must then make some concrete actions correspond; I hope that the government, from now on, wants to adopt them with greater determination and rigour, but also with greater concreteness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u38	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. The sitting will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.26 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u39	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Health and the Minister for Education, University and Research will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 3-00923 on the equipment of latest generation radiotherapy machines in all Italian regions, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u40	Minister - as you know, but I say this for the benefit of those who listen to us - in the regions of South Italy you live five years less, on average, than in the regions of the North of the country. One of the first causes of death, evidently - as everyone knows, even those who listen to us - is cancer. In our country, 63 percent of women and 54 percent of men live five years after diagnosis, on average, but in the South of Italy the results are worse. In Italy there are 424 accelerators. On average there are seven for every million inhabitants, while in the whole Calabria Region there are four. In 2017, thanks to previous governments - many damages have produced, but sometimes something right has done so, as in this case - resources of about 100 million euro have been made available in the so-called Mezzogiorno decree to build new generation plants. The deadline for submission of the relevant projects by the Regions was set in January 2019. Following the implementation process of this slow and complex rule, guidelines have been issued, with which criteria have been outlined not indicated in the decree-law cited, such as - for example - the distinction between high and very high technology. The explanation is difficult and, therefore, Minister, we would like to know from you what the thinking behind such a decision is. Paradoxically, equipment with their trade name, such as Gamma Knife, are even mentioned. The presence of the commercial name of the equipment would seem to be almost a sort of indication. In any case, Minister, we would like to know within what time limit the construction of the new oncology radiotherapy plants in the South of Italy will be completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u41	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u42	Mr President, for the purpose of allocating EUR 100 million to the Regions of the Mezzogiorno for the redevelopment and technological modernisation of oncology radiotherapy services, the decree of the Minister of Health of 6 December 2017 placed the burden on the Regions to present to the Ministry, within one hundred and eighty days of the publication of the related decision CIPE, a specific programme of use of the resources allocated to them. In order to verify the adequacy of the regional purchasing programme, the aim was to concentrate the use of public funds on advanced technologies, dividing them into high and very high technology, in relation to the needs of the individual presidies of the regional oncology networks; this, moreover, on the basis of a prior recognition, requested from the regions, on the allocations already present, so as to avoid unnecessary waste. The categories that have been identified are, therefore, that of high technology (including technologies aimed at renewing and modernising existing ones, in order to allow IGRT, IMRT volumetric and brachytherapic treatments) and that of the highest technology (it concerns technologies aimed at the implementation of existing ones with new technologies that use equipment such as IMRT helical, IMRT robotics, Gamma Knife and MR-Linac). To answer the specific question, I must point out that the terminologies referred to as very high technology (e.g. Gamma Knife) define particular technical modalities for the delivery of therapeutic treatment, on which, even if you choose to use other definitions, they would nevertheless refer to a technical specificity so high as to lead back to specific devices. Moreover, it should be added that, in order to share the modalities, information and guidelines for the presentation of the resource use programme, the Ministry of Health did not act alone, but rather promoted a meeting with all representatives of the Regions interested in financing, held on May 22, 2018, in which the guidelines and modalities of presentation of the programmes were agreed. To date, all the Regions of the Mezzogiorno have presented the program of use of the resources assigned by the decision CIPE of 21 March 2018, in accordance with the modalities agreed. In order to evaluate the programmes submitted by the regions concerned with financing, the Ministry of Health, to ensure the transparency of the evaluation process, which - as has been seen - is characterized by a very high level of technicality, considered that it had to set up a specific technical committee, whose work will be completed by next July. Finally, for the sake of complete information, I would like to inform you that the Committee's investigative findings will be sent, within the above deadline, to the investment assessment unit, which is responsible for the last opinion before the final green light to the investment programme.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u43	Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u44	Mr Minister, we must therefore commit ourselves to an almost magician's prediction to try to understand that by the end of the year, we will probably begin to think about implementing the installations in question. Minister, I recall that this year is the 40th year of the so-called universal service. I remember that in a normal country you can not record five years of average life difference between North and South. I remember that oncology radiotherapy systems are absolutely essential, are life-saving, are indispensable to maintaining normal levels of care, very normal and not excellent levels, and I repeat the word normal. I would also remind you, Minister, that such a distinction, which you consider normal, conflicts with the specific indication of the law which provides for the need to carry out latest-generation oncology radiotherapy. The latest generation of cancer radiotherapy is only what can be defined - as you call it - of the highest technology. Therefore, oncology radiotherapy of so-called high technology such as brachytherapy is not the latest generation and is not provided for in the law that involves a cost of 100 million euros. You shouldn't buy plants like that with that 100 million euro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u45	Senator Briziarelli has the right to explain the question 3-00924 on the appointment of the managers of the health companies of Umbria, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u46	Mr Minister, everyone is aware of the serious scandal that has struck Umbria in recent weeks and which has affected health. Let me briefly summarize this. Following an inquiry that directly involved the regional secretary of the PD, already Undersecretary within, the city council member for health and the same President of the Region, we even arrived at the resignation of the regional council and the dissolution of the regional council. These are the facts. Departed with an investigation into competitions extended to a situation concerning contracts and, last but not least, services - according to the news of these days, even the kitchens of the Hospitaller of Terni have been seized because of the absence of hygiene - the judge for the preliminary investigations has found - I quote - a clear picture of prolonged and usual illegal activity. Also according to the judge, the investigators were conditioned and substantially distorted the procedures for selecting the staff of the hospital company. Eleven competitions are already being verified and thirty-five people are being investigated, including some members of the committee who have drawn up the ranking of Directors-General. In this situation, in addition to having had to replace the general manager of the Hospital Company of Perugia, the Region is preparing to identify the new directors general of ASL and the new general manager of the Hospital Company of Terni. From here comes our request to the Minister to understand if it is possible, while respecting the loyal collaboration between institutions and the tasks due to the Region regarding the national level, an intervention as it has already happened. And we ask the Minister's willingness to identify the commissioner who replaced the director, in order to guarantee the citizens the necessary correctness and transparency in the choices, also considering that the region from here to four months will go to the vote. In our view, the availability of the Commissioners, instead of the directors who for years will still be responsible for the work and health of Umbria, would be preferable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u47	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u48	I am very grateful to the honourable Members for allowing me to clarify something which I first consider paradoxical and which - I understand - is very difficult to understand for those who are not in charge of the work. The very serious facts highlighted by the judiciary's investigation into the management of certain recruitments in Umbrian health care, as well as uncovering a framework of ill-doing that is only hard to imagine, have also highlighted - in my opinion - the limitations of the framework of competences and responsibilities that still characterize the governance of our health system. It is really very difficult to explain the circumstance for which, even when faced with personal and political responsibilities appeared immediately as evident (so as to push the President of the Region to resign), our system does not provide for a mechanism such as to deprive that body of the prerogative to make appointments of health companies that may expire. But there is more: my involvement, as Minister of Health, in the identification of a commissioner for the hospital company in Perugia, referred to in the question, took place - I have to say - only on the basis of the principle of loyal collaboration between institutions, welcomed by the President of the Region, without however that there exists in our legal system a timely and adequate regulation with respect to facts of such obvious gravity. And I repeat my willingness, should I be asked to do so, to provide the same cooperation also for the appointments to which this question is addressed. In short, to answer the specific question put to me, I must say, not without regret, that the current rules do not allow any intervention - so to speak - "replacement" of the Minister of Health or in general of the Government, in order to surrogate a prerogative - that of the appointment of the directors-general of health companies - which in any case remains attributed to the Region; and this - I want to say once again - even if the organs of that Region are objectively delegitized by serious events, such as those that have occurred - as we all know - in Umbria. Moreover, it should be said that at present a detailed reflection on the reform of the whole governance of health companies is being carried out in the Commission on the merits of this branch of Parliament. However, I would like to point out that changes to the regulatory framework such as this, which have an objective impact on regional prerogatives, can also be addressed - my hope is this - within the framework of the process of fruitful cooperation already undertaken with the regions in the framework of the definition of the new Health Pact, whose work is still under way. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Iwobi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u49	Senator Briziarelli may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u50	I thank the Minister and I am fully satisfied, first of all, with the frankness that marked the answer and which says a lot about the approach, both for the League and for the 5 Stars, of a Government of change, in fact. I believe that frankness is fundamental. I would like to see an intervention on this, partly because I believe that every citizen has the right to be faced with a doctor chosen on the basis of his own qualities, of his own study and of the deepening done and not for other reasons, by subjects who move differently, as we have seen in Umbria. Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness, both in the case mentioned and at the moment. We hope that on the part of the actor there will be the will and humility to return to a confrontation with the Ministry, considering that what has been demonstrated so far and is declared - just come to Umbria to find it - says a lot. A little humility, at least for the last four months, in order not to do damage afterwards, would be desirable. Finally, with regard to the process under way at the legislative level here in the Senate, the hope is that, beyond the identification mechanisms, we will consider the possibility of automatic mechanisms that can enter into operation when, as in the case of Umbria, we go to the dissolution of a Regional Council, so that those who are there, even for a short time, may not perhaps have the temptation to make incorrect and non-transparent choices, because - as Andreotti said - to think wrong is a sin, but often we are right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u51	Senator Mautone has the right to explain the question 3-00751 on free access to rehabilitation therapies, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u52	Minister, colleagues, Article 2 (1) (b) and Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 281 of 28 August 1997 provide for agreements between Government, Regions and Autonomous Provinces. With the above-mentioned agreements, the Government, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces agree on the need to aim to activate a network of rehabilitation services and rehabilitation interventions that can be activated within the uniform levels of assistance provided by the national health plan, adopting as a reference a model of integrated socio-sanitary path. In all the regions, especially the southern ones, there is a particular criticality regarding waiting times at the accredited centres for neuropsychomotor and sensory certification-rehabilitation, which are particularly long and, in some cases, reach up to two years, as from multiple reports received. As scientifically proven, early rehabilitation allows to achieve the best recovery of psychosensory and motor activities of small patients suffering from pathologies such as autistic spectrum disorders, genetic or rare diseases, childhood celeral paralysis, consequence of neonatal anoxic-ischemic suffering or peripartum. This delay in accessing rehabilitation therapies under the convention regime means, as a logical consequence, for families the only possibility of relying on private facilities, with increased costs, especially considering the almost daily frequency of such treatments and their long duration. It is asked to know which controls the Regions operate on these accredited centres in relation to the management of their waiting lists, also in the light of the fact that it is possible to carry out the same therapies in private, as well as what initiatives the Minister intends to take in order to reduce the waiting times for free access to rehabilitation therapies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u53	Mr President, I shall immediately answer the first question in the question and do so as clearly as possible. The monitoring of the assistance provided by accredited centres is the exclusive responsibility of the Regions, which exercise it in ways that the Minister of Health is not currently in a position to know. Having said this general premise and moving on to the specific subject of the question, namely the provision of rehabilitation care to minors, it must be said that it is true that the provision of rehabilitation treatment to minors with neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodevelopment or with disabilities is included in the LEA. However, in order not to remain on paper alone, this forecast needs to be applied in a timely and uniform manner throughout the national territory. For this reason, the Ministry has just drawn up the document on identifying the appropriate routes in the rehabilitation network, which is being sent to the State-Regions Conference. In fact, the Ministry has considered to be responsible for the identification of the standard requirements of the territorial rehabilitation assistance, indicating for each care system (swimming, home, residential and semi-residenz) and for the different rehabilitation intensity (intensive, extensive or socio-rabilitative) punctual requirements of appropriate treatment. The inspiring principle of the document lies in the full awareness that only early rehabilitation can achieve the best recovery of the activity. For this reason, the document reiterates the need to define and explicitly set certain deadlines for the provision of the treatments provided for in the rehabilitation project. In order to obtain effective monitoring of the times associated with these services, so far there has also been a lack of specific data flow on the territorial rehabilitation assistance; objective to which we are now working within the framework of the more general strengthening of the information systems of the Ministry, in order to fill the serious information gap on this very important type of assistance. Thanks to the tools that are being put in place and to the collaboration of the Regions, it will also be possible to carry out a real monitoring on the conditions in which these benefits are provided, which - and here is my commitment - will have to start from the Regions that so far have highlighted the greatest criticalities on waiting times, with this putting at risk the delicate rehabilitation path of subjects in development age and therefore, also for this reason, absolutely the most fragile. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u54	Senator Mautone has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u55	Minister, thank you for your clarification, for your frankness, above all, and for your commitments to the citizens and territories. I am aware of your stubbornness and your particular attention to the issue of waiting lists, which has already been demonstrated on other occasions. It understands that, at regional level, especially in the southern regions, this complex problem has not so far found adequate and efficient answers, perhaps due to poor organisation and lack of sensitivity in understanding the importance of early rehabilitation intervention. I am sure that the acquisition of the flows, which have so far been lacking, on the territorial rehabilitation assistance and the subsequent elaboration of the document setting out the appropriate routes in the rehabilitation network, setting certain times on the provision of the required services - this is important - will mark a decisive turning point for the resolution of the problem in question. The path taken is the right one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u56	Before continuing with the questions, I would like to renew the House's welcome to Senator Michelina Lunesu, who has taken over from Senator Solinas. Welcome, Senator. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u57	Minister, today I want to tell a story, which you already know and which has also been taken up by the press. I am talking about the history of Emilia, a student enrolled in the second year of the classical high school "Bertrand Russell" in Rome, who, thanks to the good will of his school and to innovative teachers, is following the programs of Greek and mathematics with software undoubtedly at the forefront (one even purchased from the school), that allow her to proceed in step with her companions, guaranteeing a true inclusion. It happened, however, that Emilia, after the beautiful experience made for the second year at the high school "Bertrand Russell" in Rome, found herself having to face rightly the tests "Invalsi," for which there is no compensatory and innovative instrument, but a very desperate mode. There are therefore schools that manage to carry out by good will a mechanism of avant-garde teaching and others that cannot, with a Ministry that is perhaps still struggling to innovate compared to more advanced technologies. Emilia then turned a little to all of us, not so much to ask us to help her, since she supported the test, but to remind us that there will be state exams to be taken for so many blind kids like her and that there will be other tests for kids who have disabilities and it is not right that only the good will of the school be left the possibility to make truly inclusive routes. I would add, Minister, that, as we all know and as you well know, our inclusion legislation is among the most advanced in Europe. We also know that Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2017 has brought some concrete results in this direction; we also know that you have decided to review it and that we are already working on this in the Commissions of competence. The aim of the revision of this decree is to give more voice - as you said - to the 200,000 students with disabilities and their families. We ask her then how she intends to give more voice to the 200,000 students with disabilities and, above all, how she plans to solve the problem that Emilia has highlighted for the Invalsi rehearsals and for the state exams of all the blind children. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u58	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u59	Senator Malpezzi, I answer your question, pointing out that legislative decree no. 66 of 2017 on the subject of school inclusion - which you mentioned - provided for ten implementing measures that should have been adopted, moreover, within one hundred and eighty days of the entry into force of the same decree. Well, in May 2018, i.e. one year after the entry into force of Legislative Decree No 66, the previous Government had adopted only two (there were eight missing). On 24 July 2018, that is not even two months after my inauguration as Minister, I presented the outline of all the implementing measures of the aforementioned legislative decree no. 66 to the Permanent Observatory for School Inclusion that I have specifically re-convoked, and that has not met for a few months. But I didn't stop here. In these days, it is already under examination by the competent parliamentary committees - in order to obtain the prescribed opinion - also the corrective of Legislative Decree No 66, drawn up in agreement with the associations represented in the Permanent Observatory for School Inclusion. It is a corrective intervention that aims to remedy the critical issues arising from the first application of Legislative Decree no. 66, putting the disabled student and his needs more and more at the centre. Turning, then, to the specific questions asked by you, I would like to remind you that, for the carrying out of the tests carried out by students and pupils with disabilities, the class board can provide appropriate compensatory or dispensing measures for the carrying out of the tests and, if not sufficient, to prepare specific adaptations of the tests, up to the exemption from the tests. It is therefore up to the school institution to inform the Invalsi of the need to receive the test texts in a special format; the Invalsi must provide for them, also taking into account the specific needs of each individual student. With regard, however, to the evidence of the final examination of the second cycle of instruction, as provided also by the order issued this year, No 205, the texts of the first and second written test are also transmitted by the Ministry in code Braille, where there are schools that require it for blind candidates. For candidates who do not know the Braille code, additional formats may be requested and the examination committee may also provide for the transcription of the ministerial text on computer support, authorising, in any case, also the use of other appropriate aids, usually in use during the ordinary school activity. Therefore, in the light of the above-mentioned legislation, measures are already taken to enable blind pupils and students to take independent examinations and tests with the help of the usual instruments used. Finally, I would like to reassure you that Mr. Invalsi is already working on the specific situation of the student at the Bertrand Russell Institute in Rome, which I myself had the pleasure of meeting, making myself available to the needs that he has shown me and, in particular, to make the Braille digital accessible in all schools. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u60	Senator Malpezzi has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u61	Minister, the words you say at the press conference or at the presentation of your projects remain firm, written on paper, do not fly away, and at that time when the revision of the frequently cited Legislative Decree No 66 is presented, today available to the two competent Commissions, both you and Minister Fontana have said that it has been foreseen that the hours of support, as well as the teaching activities and the material tools for training, are no longer established by an office distant from the pupil acting for standardised procedures. Unfortunately, you told us today in your reply that procedures can still be standardized because either the school - in your opinion, Minister - is equipped or the Ministry will always have the standard action. But, among the words he has spoken today, those I am most concerned about are also the exemption from trials in case a student with disabilities is not able to carry them out. Well, I don't think a student with disabilities should be exempted from evidence. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, the inclusion concerns everyone and not only - I remember - the boy who lives the disability, but the whole class. So, this government that wants to change so much should really apply the rule of change: support and actions with respect to disability must be done on the overall class, not on the individual student. As long as you continue to give answers such as the one you have given here today, you are responsible for schools, families and, above all, you are making pupils pay for it. I hope, even for the next few times, that this area of question time will not only become the exasperation of continuous meetings as has been done even a few moments ago by my colleagues in the League, because we need to ask questions to the competent ministers, not to attend summary trials, which in this case concerned my party. I say this to my colleague in the League, a party that perhaps other problems as a political party, even with respect to health, in some regions that he ruled and that he continues to govern had them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u62	Senator Siclari has the right to explain the question 3-00926 on the safety and adaptation of school buildings, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, the adaptation of school infrastructure is a clear national priority, which is necessary in order to prevent situations which may compromise the safety of pupils, teachers and all operators in the sector. The National Operational Programme (NAP) is a multi-fund programme aimed at improving the education system, called "For School - Skills and Learning Environments" for the 2014-2020 programming period. This objective is pursued through a series of interventions: adaptation and improvement anti-seismic; plant adaptation and safety measures aimed at achieving the viability of buildings; reclamation from asbestos and other harmful agents; accessibility and overcoming architectural barriers; energy efficiency; improvement of the eco-sustainability of buildings; attractiveness of schools, intended as an improvement of the quality and modernization of the spaces for teaching and realization of functional spaces for the provision of accessory services to students (e.g. cafeteria, common areas, green areas, construction of infrastructures for sports and laboratory spaces), aimed at the redevelopment and improvement of the usability of spaces (internal and external), also to promote an idea of school open to the territory and the community. The official notice was published on the Ministry's website on 16 August 2017 and these funds are intended exclusively for the Southern Regions (Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Puglia and Sicily) and the local authorities falling within the aforementioned Regions. The deadline for the submission of applications for access to the financing expired on 12 February 2018 and, despite the appointment of the evaluation board by a directorial decree of 18 April 2018, it does not appear that any applicant has been granted the resources allocated. It has been a year and a half and, above all, since you took office, this procedure has been blocked. On 23 May 2019, the Ministry published a note extending the deadline for submitting documents and the Commission has already met, but to date we have no answers. We wanted to know if the Minister in address is aware of the situation and what action he intends to take in order to ensure the completion of the procedure aimed at securing anti-seismic safety and the infrastructural adjustment of the school buildings present in the Southern regions and what concrete measures he intends to take to prevent in future the safety of the pupils, our children, the youngest, the teaching staff, the worker, any educational institution of the Republic from being put at risk again, considering that the 360 million there are, but to date, after sixteen months, still have not been assigned and we do not understand the reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u64	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u65	Thank you, Senator Siclari, for your question gives me the opportunity, once again, to report on the many initiatives I have taken since the beginning of my mandate as Minister, in the knowledge that the safety of schools, students and all school staff is a top priority for the Government. First of all, we have unlocked important resources that had only been allocated, but not yet allocated to local authorities, and we have also identified new resources to be allocated to the safety of schools. Today, we can say, with satisfaction, that we have accelerated most of the procedures in the field of school building, perfecting specific agreements with regions and local authorities and approving numerous rules of simplification that make it easier for local authorities to request funding and faster the process of allocation of resources by the Ministry. I refer, last, to a parliamentary amendment approved a few days ago by the V and VI Committees of the Chamber of Deputies in the context of the conversion of the so-called growth decree, on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion, which simplifies the procedures for entrusting the tasks of design and the work of securing school buildings, financed from the resources of programming for the three-year period 2018-2020. I remember, again, the approval of the 1.7 billion euro plan for the first year of the 2018-2020 programming and the establishment of a 120 million euro fund, which I strongly wanted to secure the schools of the Regions affected by the 2016 earthquake, and a fund for emergencies, which will allow us to intervene immediately and give immediate answers to local authorities and school communities in case of emergencies. As regards the use of the PON funds for school construction, I would point out that, following the public notice concerning the territories of the Regions Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Puglia and Sicily, more than 1,100 applications have been received, with very detailed project proposals, regarding which the competent ministerial commission is proceeding to the punctual verification of the admission requirements and to formulate to the local authorities concerned numerous requests for clarification and documentary integration. It is in fact essential that projects relating to interventions on school buildings are accompanied by all the opinions and visas required by law. The safety of our students also goes through a quality design activity and must be safeguarded through careful monitoring of compliance with safety standards. However, I would like to reassure you that, as permitted by Community legislation, we are using part of the PON funds to finance infrastructure interventions, the so-called bank projects, always referring to schools located in the regions of Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Puglia and Sicily and already included in national rankings, in order to free, with the subsequent Community reimbursement, resources to finance further interventions in those same Regions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-Sd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u66	I give the floor to Senator Siclari to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, while you are satisfied with what you tell us every time you are about to do, we are not at all satisfied. The whole of the South has the right to know why a funding line, dedicated to the Southern regions and in particular to those most in difficulty, is firm. We are talking about a financing line and not about a call to be revised, redone or possibly new funding for when it is not known. It is like what happens with the EUR 2 billion of funds allocated to health facilities, but from 2022 to 2024: we are talking about nothing. The ban has been made, it has expired, there is a commission, the funds have been allocated and the projects have been presented according to the ban, but for sixteen months the line does not go, the schools are at risk and especially those who live them every day. The seismic zones in the South are at risk every day: only three hours ago in Reggio Calabria there was an earthquake of magnitude greater than 3. So let us put the children at risk, when we already have a dedicated line, which does not allow us to finance projects that have already been approved. We therefore need that commitment and sacrifice that you have asked the people of Calabria for. When he came to Calabria and asked her what we should do for our schools, she replied that sacrifice and commitment are needed: she will remember very well how she responded, through the press. Mr Minister, allow me to tell you how you told the Calabrians: work and make more sacrifices, as Minister and within the Ministry, because I think that this way you will be able to unblock the funds immediately and to open the line immediately, which will serve to secure our children in Calabria, Campania, Basilicata, Apulia and Sicily. So more sacrifice and more commitment are needed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u68	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u71	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak (in fact, I asked to do so yesterday, but I did repeat the request today) in order to share with the House the concerns about the imprisonment of an Italian citizen, that is, an Italian citizen, who is unjustly suffering in Venezuela. The person is called Juan Planchart Márquez and is also the cousin of the president of the Venezuelan National Assembly, Juan Guaidó Márquez. The citizen in question has been arrested, obviously illegally, on charges of various kinds, such as a conspiracy against the Venezuelan State together with the American citizen Donald Trump; accusations never documented to lawyers and moreover made live television by a minister of the government who announced that the person in question would be arrested: i.e. the government announced it, not the judiciary. He has been in prison for four months without being able to meet anyone, if not twice his lawyer; he is not given the papers concerning the accusations that are being made; in short, it is one of the many cases of illegal arrests that are taking place in Venezuela. I speak about this because in these hours in Venezuela is present the lawyer Michelle Bachelet, High Commissioner of the United Nations for Human Rights, just to verify personally the state of human rights in that country. The family members of Juan Planchart Márquez and the Venezuelan community whom we also met here in Parliament a few days ago informed us of the absolute need to highlight this case in these hours, so that the High Commissioner who is in Venezuela can participate in it by urging the release of the cousin of President Guaidó, a citizen with an Italian passport illegally held in order to put pressure on the legitimate President to abandon his claims. I have a duty to say this in this House because we are talking about an Italian citizen illegally arrested in a regime that many now consider illegal, starting with the United Nations, all the more so because the UN document yesterday tells us that four million Venezuelans have fled abroad and that this year is the biggest exodus that is taking place, even higher than the Syrian and Afghan ones: this year they have fled more from Venezuela than from Syria or Afghanistan. It is the biblical exodus of a country where there are 200,000 Italians, many illegally arrested, certainly the citizen Márquez.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-124.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 25 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.45 p.m.
