ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 4 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies Senators, at 16.30 today, in the presence of numerous authorities, will be held in San Severo the State funeral for the major marshal of the carabinieri Vincenzo Carlo Di Gennaro. Last Saturday, at the Municipality of Cagnano Varano, the Marshal Di Gennaro was simply doing his duty: he was in service, as every day, to guarantee the citizens security and control of the territory. Together with the Carabiniere Pasquale Casertano, to whom our most affectionate wish for speedy recovery goes, he was struck as a servant of the State, symbol of those rules that are the basis of our rule of law. His murderer launched his mad ambush with unheard of violence, the result of an unjustifiable hatred and total contempt for his neighbor and for human life. The best response was certainly that provided by the entire local community involved: from the first hours after the crime, there was a general feeling of closeness, solidarity and affection towards family members, colleagues and the entire Carabinieri weapon. The institutions now have the task of making their presence felt concretely, not lowering their attention on what happened and never leaving our heroes alone, who dedicate their lives to the common good. In memory of Marshal Di Gennaro, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u4	The fire that devastated the Cathedral of Notre-Dame last night is a collective drama that not only affected France or Christendom, but struck humanity as a whole, deeply wounded its memory, because the Cathedral of Paris is not only a religious building and a monumental good, but it is the ancient heart of Europe, a piece of universal culture, a symbolic place of that history that belongs to the whole world and respect to which no one, for the very high artistic values it expresses, can feel to some extent foreign. The dramatic images of the flames that devour the roof of Notre-Dame and bring down its famous spire, among the highest expressions of Gothic architecture, are still in the eyes of all of us. For those who are not insensitive to the charm of history and beauty or to the suggestions of faith, the emotional impact was strong and terrible. But the time of tears and emotion, combined with thanksgiving for all those who have worked and are working hard to save the works of art and all that remains of Notre-Dame, must not make us forget the duty not to leave alone, at this distressing juncture, the French people, who once again find themselves hard hit in its most representative symbols. The Cathedral of Notre-Dame has survived many times to carelessness, looting, revolutions, weather; with the help of the whole of Europe it must be able to be born again from the ashes of history and be rebuilt because it is a symbol whose historical, religious and cultural value goes far beyond today's rubble. With this wish the Senate of the Italian Republic today expresses its ideal closeness to France and the French. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u6	The Conference of Leaders established changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 30 May. In today's sitting, which does not include closing hours, European law 2018 will be discussed until its conclusion. Tomorrow morning will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the 2019 Economy and Finance Document and the Decree-Law on Financial Stability. The discussion of the aforementioned decree-law will begin at 4 p.m. tomorrow to continue in the morning of Thursday 18. The discussion of the 2019 Economy and Finance Document will take place on the afternoon of Thursday 18 April. Motions for resolutions on the document must be tabled before the end of the general debate. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within 30 minutes of the opinion. The President of the Council of Ministers will make a statement on the situation in Libya at 8 p.m. on Thursday 18 April. The question time already scheduled for 3 p.m. will not take place. The week from 23 to 26 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Assembly will return to meet again on Monday 29 and Tuesday 30 April for the discussion from the building of the bill on the donation of the post-mortem body, the bill referred by the President of the Republic pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution on the contrast of financing to anti-personnel mines companies, as well as for ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The week from 6 to 10 May will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The calendar of the week from 14 to 16 May provides for the discussion of the following draft laws: vote of exchange, approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies; video surveillance, where concluded by the Commission; decree-law for the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be sitting in the week before the European elections on 26 May. In the week from 28 to 30 May will be discussed, where concluded by the Commissions, the draft law on the minimum hourly wage and the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region and their aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna Region. The calendar also includes, on Thursday 16 and 30 May, at 3 p.m., the question time. The Conference of the Leaders has also confirmed that in the weeks reserved for the work of the Assembly the Commissions will be able to convene only for the examination of draft laws of conversion of decrees-laws or for opinions on acts of the Government of imminent expiration. Limited derogations may be authorised by the Presidency in relation to the urgency of the subjects covered. In addition, while awaiting the necessary link between the legislative provision referred to in Article 33, paragraphs 4 and 5, of the Rules of Procedure and Article 7 of the specification of television broadcasts referred to in the decree of the President of the Senate of 8 July 2005, the Conference of the Capigroup has agreed that the advertising of the work of the Commissions through audiovisual installations is limited to the activation of the internal circuit. Finally, the Conference of the Leaders took note - by majority - of the need signalled by the Government to make a wrong corrige to the table of the 2019-2021 State Programme Budget of competence only, contained on page 83 of the Second Note of variations to the budget forecast of the State for the financial year 2019 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021, collected on page 344 of the ordinary supplement to the Official Journal No 62/L of 31 December 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u7	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of March and April 2019: - Drawing of law n. 733 and related - Rules on the disposition of one's body and post-mortem tissues for the purposes of study, training and scientific research (from the drawing up office) - Drawing of law n. 1 - Measures to counter the financing of enterprises producing anti-personnel mines, ammunition and cluster submunitions (remitted by the President of the Republic pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution) - Drawing of law n. 510-B - Amendment of article 416-b of the penal code in the matter of voting for political-mafia exchange (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detaching of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and their aggregation to the Emilia-Rome region (approved by the Emilia-Rome region of the Rigna region)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u8	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 30 May, in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday 16 April h. 16 - Drawing of Law No. 822-B - European Law 2018 (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 1165 - Decree-Law No. 22, Financial Stability (final vote by 25 April) (expires on 24 May) - Doc. LVII, n. 2 - Document of economy and finance 2019 (Thursday 18, afternoon) - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the evolution of the situation in Libya (Thursday 18, 8 p.m.) Wednesday 17 " h. 16 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30 Friday 19 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Motions for resolutions on document LVII, No 2 (Economic and financial document 2019) will have to be tabled by the end of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within 30 minutes of the opinion. The week from 23 to 26 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Monday, April 29 h. 17-20 - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 733 and related - Donation postmortem body (from the writing site) - Drawing of law n. 1 - Contrast financing companies producing anti-personnel mines (remitted by the President of the Republic pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs Tuesday 30 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to bill No 1 (Contrast financing of anti-personnel mines) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 26 April. The week from 6 to 10 May will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, May 14 h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 510-B - Exchange vote (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 27, Relaunching of agricultural sectors in crisis (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 28 May) - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 16, 15 hours) Wednesday 15 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 16 " h. 9,30-20]] Amendments to draft law No 510-B (Exchange vote) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 9 May. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 897 and related amendments (Videosurveillance) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 27, Relaunching agricultural sectors in crisis) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the House of Deputies. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be sitting in the week before the European elections on 26 May. [[Tuesday, May 28 h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawings of law no. 310 and 658 - Minimum hourly salary (where concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 1144 and connected - Common detachment of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 30, 15) Wednesday 29 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 30 " h. 9.30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 310 and 658 (Salario minima orario) and n. 1144 and connected (Distacco comuni di Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 822-B (European Law 2018) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1165 (Decree-Law No 22, Financial Stability) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of document LVII, No 2 (Economic and financial document 2019) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 50' FI-BP 35' L-SP-PSd'Az 34' PD 32' FdI 21' Mixed 20' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 27, Relaunching agricultural sectors in crisis) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u11	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as you mentioned, the timetable was adopted by a majority. As far as we are concerned, I would like to refer here to an issue which I put very strongly at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which I believe is of interest to many senators, as evidenced by the numerous motions put forward in this regard. I am referring to the story of Radio Radicale and the pervicacious will on the part of the Government - I remember the statements of the Undersecretary Crimes - to revoke the convention with Radio Radicale. I am the first signatory of a motion, signed by many other senators of various groups, and motions have also been presented by the Democratic Party, by Forza Italia and - I believe - also by other groups. I think it is absolutely necessary and urgent for the Senate to discuss these motions. Mr President, you know perfectly well that in all these years, many years, even our voice - the voice of those who have spoken in this House - has been able to reach the citizens only and only because there was Radical Radio which, with the transmission of the sessions, has rendered a public service to all citizens. As you have pointed out, Mr President, the debate on the European draft law is on the agenda today. Therefore, I renew my request to include in the agenda the discussion of motions for resolutions on Radio Radicale after the vote on the draft European law. If that is not possible, I would ask that the discussion of these motions be scheduled at least in the week immediately after Easter (i.e. from 22 to 26 April), possibly on 23 April. I am renewing this proposal here as an option. It is absolutely essential - and I also appeal to all the senators and those who have signed the motions - that this House should be able to discuss this. The defence of Article 21 of our Constitution, on freedom of information, is also at stake. We know that the theme is also related to cuts in publishing. There are many small newspapers that have represented pluralism in this country for decades (I think of the manifesto, the Avvenire and many diocese newspapers). The President of the Republic has reminded us of the respect of Article 21 and the importance of freedom of information and pluralism: the inclusion on the agenda of the discussion of motions on Radical Radio may be an opportunity, also for this Assembly, to discuss issues relevant to the democracy of our country. [[Applause from Senator Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u14	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, from my point of view, this morning's meeting was a very complicated and difficult meeting of the Conference of Leaders on issues which we consider to be very important and which - as it appears to me - have been overwhelmed by marginal and bureaucratic issues. You will remember - we all remember, unfortunately - how the votes, the parliamentary debate and the debate, which was prevented in the Commission, on the draft budget law, went. You will remember how that draft budget law was passed in haste and fury, as if the government and Parliament were ashamed of what they were doing, without putting the parliamentarians in a position to know the measure that would be voted on there within a few hours. It will also be remembered that we, for this very reason, have called for the intervention of the Constitutional Court, which has spoken very clearly on this issue. These are important aspects of the political and institutional life of a country: the fact that the institutions are respected. On the contrary, that day, on the contrary, that night, the Italian Government did not respect Parliament and did not respect the Senate, imposing a vote in the dark in all senses. Well, today we see the results of all this. Today we discover, with a communication made almost secretly to the Commission, that among the tables that were put to us in the annex to the budget law there was, in particular, a table, which was not wrong for a comma or a zero, but completely wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is what happens when things get hurt and bullied, in spite of and irresponsiblely against the institutions. Mr President, we had asked for the time - which was there, among other things - to be able to work carefully and with caution, as important measures such as this deserve. The structure has decided to proceed in a different way and even its decisions have led us to make those votes. Today, with a communication to the House, we want to resolve such an important issue about a measure which has been published in the Official Journal and which has gone to Europe. We are witnessing today that we have a government of incapable, which is unable to put the right tables in the measures. [[Applause from the PD Group]] During the Conference of Leaders, we decided that there should be a serious and responsible hypothesis for resolving an issue which also has political and institutional significance. On the other hand, you, Mr President, think of putting everything at the service of the government, of their mistakes and of their inability, with a communication. I believe that this is unacceptable, Mr President, and I appeal to the Government to have a sense of responsibility. I appeal to the majority groups, because this is a very important issue, which creates a precedent and throws the Senate back into the worst institutional discredit possible. The solution you have set, Mr President, is simply wrong and penalises the Senate once again, creates a precedent and undermines the balanced relationship between the powers of the State provided for in the Constitution. Today we are making a serious, very serious mistake, and we completely disagree with its decisions. After that, there are also problems on the timetable because, precisely for the precedents that have been created, consolidated, approved and endorsed, with the same method it is decided to address an important measure like the DEF, which we will discuss this week, an important and relevant programming document, to which the whole world looks. But the government suddenly decides, again in this case, to be in a hurry and to limit the time for discussion in the Commission and what does the Conference of Leaders do, what do we decide? We decide to meet these needs, which have already caused so much damage to Parliament and the Senate of the Republic. Then we have to vote by Thursday night, we have to hurry, who knows why. Perhaps because there are in sight important decisions, statements or even the publicity of decisions of companies that will make the rating on our public accounts. Perhaps before 28, 29 and 30 April - which were the scheduled dates, which we had informally agreed on - there will be information that will make this paper rag, far from the reality of the Italian economy and the public accounts of our country. Perhaps this is the motivation behind the haste that you all have to prevent a deepening of a DEF based on wrong data, deliberately false, that make our country incredible in the presence of Italians and the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The last point I would like to make relates to Mr De Petris' proposal, which I myself supported at the Conference of Leaders. The issue of Radical Radio is very clear. There is a position of the Government, also in this case, because the Undersecretary who has the specific competences in this matter has given an interview to the newspapers saying what he wants to do and what he wants to do is exactly a consequence of what is happening in Rai: let us all remember - you remember very well, Mr President - how the elections went for the Presidency of the Parliamentary Committee on Radio Surveillance; Mr President, like all of us, you know what is happening to the freedom of journalists in the largest agency of cultural production and information in the country. Well, this decision - because preventing us from talking about Radical Radio today in Parliament means making a decision - is an attack on freedom of the press and an attack on the transparency of Parliament's work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] His decision and decision of the Conference of Leaders on advertising the work of the Commissions also go in exactly the same direction: we want to prevent journalists and above all we want to prevent the Italians from knowing what you are combining to the detriment of the country, in Italy, in Parliament and in the Government: we must address this issue. We want to keep a voice of freedom alive and the majority want to prevent it! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u17	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the timetable for the work we have been discussing at the Conference of the Leaders. In my very brief speech, I would like to draw the House's attention to two points of the many discussed at the Conference. I would like to start with the emerging aspect of Libya, because I would have sincerely expected, on entering the Conference of the Leaders, that the Government would promptly inform us of the date on which President Conte's statement would take place in this House, which, as is well known, came to the Chamber of Deputies on 11 April. From 11 April to today a world has passed away, the issue is getting worse from hour to hour and a humanitarian emergency is emerging, with hundreds of migrants. There are those who call them migrants and those who want to call them refugees: I do not want to open a controversy, but there is a war going on. Instead, from the government we had a delay of the date. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rauti, perhaps you were not in the Chamber when I announced that President Conte would come to the House at 8 p.m. on Thursday. RAUTI (FdI). I know, I was in the Chamber, but you know like me that there was a debate to achieve this, also thanks to your speech, at the Conference of the Leaders, while I think that there should have been no discussion on this point, but an immediate communication from the Government on the date of the President' s disclosure. I am well aware that there will be, I am delighted, but I do not fail to point out that it has been difficult to get there. This is not good and I intend to repeat it. I come to the second topic, which is decidedly of different and minor dimension and importance, but I want to remind you: Brothers of Italy, together with other parliamentary groups, albeit distinctly, presented a motion, which was asked to be discussed today in the Chamber, concerning the situation of Radical Radio which, at this point, after yesterday's statements by the Undersecretary of Crimes, will not be extended. We had asked, together with other parliamentary groups, that today, as would have been possible, after the debate and the vote on European law, the motions on Radical Radio should be discussed. The answer was a no, without motivation. We stress that this is an attack on the pluralism of information. There was nothing to prevent the debate in this House on those motions. We want to stigmatize it and we hope that, since we have not been given the opportunity today, the debate will be framed as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make two comments and make a specific proposal. The first consideration: Forza Italia welcomes the willingness of the President of the Count Council to come and report to the House on Thursday on the situation in Libya. We know that the Conference of the Leaders was only open on 8 May, i.e. in three weeks' time. We insisted on asking that he be present before, given the extremely delicate situation; we have heard, from authoritative sources, about the danger of 800,000 people who could leave Libya and that in large part would be directed towards Italy. In any case, a situation of war at our gates, a few hundred kilometres from our country, must be tackled with great commitment, listening (we hope) to all political forces in Parliament and not only to narrower conciliations. Second consideration: putting the discussion and the vote of the DEF in such a short time (today the debate begins and the day after tomorrow ends) is a decision that we certainly do not agree with. It would have taken more time. It is true that we go in parallel with the Chamber's work, but this means that there will also be a hasty examination in the House. The way in which the budget law was discussed at the end of last year, which led this House to vote on a text that was not known, because it was impossible to read it at the time it was presented to the Senate, is certainly not a good precedent. It has caused an intervention - a unique case that never happened before - by the Constitutional Court, which for the future, not considering to intervene for the past (i.e. on the budget law that had already been adopted), called for more appropriate attention and a real passage in Parliament, not just virtual. The haste has determined the necessity to intervene, from the Government, with a series of provisions and decrees-laws; now we also have this wrong corrige. Whatever the instrument used to correct it, it is an error of 15.7 billion euros, not just a comma shifted from one place to another, not 100,000 euros, but a significant figure, even in the very large size of the state budget. Therefore, we do not think we propose different ways, which would be impossible, since there is the decision in parallel of the House, but we certainly denounce the fact that we continue to try to reduce as much as possible the space of discussion of the Senate on the most important documents. That on the DEF is perhaps the most important vote in the year; the subject covered by it should be extensively developed and should be examined in the Commissions and in the House. Instead, everything is done in around 48 hours. It is a situation that we do not think is positive at all. It is, of course, a matter of respect for Parliament's role, but it is also a matter of doing things right. We have already witnessed another wrong corrige: the text of a decree-law in force for more than fifty days (I refer to the decree Carige) had to be corrected in the Official Gazette, because it had been copied by a decree-law of the Government Gentiloni Silveri (which concerned other banks), but so pedissequo that it had been copied also the reference to a paragraph that was no longer there. Well, this way of making laws is really a bad way. Then all these things have repercussions, because these are macro-terrors, but there are so many small errors or lack of clarity that then spill over onto the businesses, citizens and public administrations that have to apply these laws. Here we do not make propaganda, we make laws; or at least we should make laws and not make propaganda. Finally, I agree with the request to discuss as soon as possible, starting today - but, where it is not considered possible, at any time this week - the motions on Radical Radio. Radio Radicale represents an extraordinary heritage for our country and our institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] For decades, in fact, it has played a role that should actually have been played by the institutions themselves. Radio Radicale, before the times, for decades makes available to all Italian citizens the possibility to follow the parliamentary debates - and this is the element that interests us most - but also many other aspects of our political and social life, processes, international institutions, conferences and so on. Someone else could have done it, but no one else has come forward; no one else has come forward with those conditions, with that ludicrous figure in the state budget. Yet, the Government evidently - and this was also reiterated by the Secretary-General responsible for publishing - stated its intention to close Radio Radicale. Perhaps one of the things that bothers Radio Radicale is that what is said remains; even the audio remains, in some cases the video, so if you make statements and the week after they contradict each other, it remains a trace, and this is true even if you contradict maybe after twenty years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Maybe this bothers those who change their minds every day and make fun of Italians. We ask, then, that the motions be discussed in order to keep Radio Radicale alive and above all the service that it offers to the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u23	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I think it is necessary to speak because, if I were on the side of the opposition and intervening in this House, as has just been done by all the opposition groups, without getting intervention from the majority forces, I would find it frustrating. Since, on the other hand, I have great respect for the role that oppositions have in this House and in the country, I think it is right to give answers and make some clarifications, apart from the distinctions I will make and which obviously lead me to say that we will confirm the timetable for the work of this House by voting against the proposed amendments. I would start with the question of the table at the Note of Variations. As is well known, the budget law has a section I, which concerns the legislative part and Section II, i.e. the tome which contains the wrong table, which represents some financial balances of the effects of the changes which took place during the debate, which also takes place with an amendment on which confidence is placed, but which amends the text of the legislative part, therefore the effects are recorded in the second part. Those effects are then summarized in some tables, precisely the summary tables, and one of them is markedly wrong, because it resumes the one approved at first reading in the House. Therefore, this is merely a material error, partly because it is technically impossible to request regulatory action to make a change - as some of the oppositions have asked for - because it is not possible to amend that part of the document. To further reinforce this thesis, I say that a primary norm is a symptom of a legislative will, while a summary table is a mere summary of data. No one disputes the fact that there is a mistake; the dispute takes place as to how we go to remedy that error, and, as always, when there is a material error, it is done through a wrong juxtaposition in the Journal, which the Government will do promptly. I am not avoiding the reference to what happened during the budget law because I was - but I think the members of the majority forces have pointed out this - among those who were well aware that the process that led to the adoption of the budget law was too sudden and perhaps forced. First of all, it was because there was an intercourse with Europe which led to substantial changes in the budget bill's forecasts; it was for a number of reasons. We do not think this has been the first time this has happened in this House. In 2016, as I have already said several times, the path was basically the same, even if with other reasons. I therefore believe that as a majority force - and I address my colleague, Mr Romeo - we are committed to making the next budget law a much wider, more debated and debated path, and that it fully shares Parliament's prerogatives. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Compared to the DEF, it is clear that the deadline is not tomorrow and it is not today, but we must bear in mind the economic moment that this country and - I dare say - the whole European continent are going through. I am thinking of the economic locomotive of the old continent, which has data that are certainly worse than ours, at least with reference to industrial production and growth forecasts. Nobody remembers that, when we talk about reduced growth in Italy compared to the November forecast, the same is happening in all European countries, including in our neighbouring country, Germany. Obviously, there is a problem that affects all the economies of our continent, probably linked to macroeconomic factors on a global scale - I think, for example, the relationship between the United States and China - which have an impact on European economies and of course we also pay. This means that, even if a possible deadline for the DEF is the end of April, there will be a need to give a signal of the compactness of the forces of majority and will of the Government to remedy a difficult macroeconomic and economic situation through the instruments and measures that are recalled and linked to the DEF. Therefore, asking the Chamber and Senate Parliamentary Assemblies to proceed quickly to the approval of the Economic and Finance Document also has the value to signal to others and markets the Government's attention to difficult economic trends that we want to reverse. I do not shy away from the last topic, which concerns the motion on Radical Radio, but allow me to approach it in the right way. I've done a little historical analysis, although I don't have full data yet. Never before, as in this Chamber - and I am speaking specifically of the Senate - has there been any discussion of opposition motions, starting with Senator De Petris' first on the setting up of a Commission on Human Rights to the last, which even concerned distrust of a Minister of the Republic. We have always guaranteed oppositions the right propensity to oppose through instruments that are not simply questions or questions, but also through documents of commitment to the Government such as motions, obviously always assuming that then the majority has the right to reject the motions proposed by the opposition. So there has never been any desire not to discuss a subject on political issues. We have dealt with the issue of the TAV in this House; we have always dealt with issues that are also difficult for the majority, as could be the question put in this way of Radical Radio. We simply believe that there is no room for this now. Therefore, there is a commitment of the majority to discuss Radical Radio in this House too, but we cannot introduce the debate on motions this afternoon. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u24	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Hotel Institute "Sandro Pertini" in Brindisi, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u27	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will seem obvious to you that I, as radical as I am, intervene in defence of Radical Radio. It's not like that; Radical Radio is also and above all your history, the history of institutions, such as that of the Government and oppositions. It is the history of the great processes of our country; it is the history of all the congresses, of all the initiatives and of all the debates. I would like to thank the Group president for his words. Mr. Parent Company, Undersecretary Crimes said yesterday that this was a twenty-five-year service without a competition. Do it, the race. We have been asking for this race for twenty-four years and the last time it was done in 1994. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-BP and PD.]] I think it is the great heritage of our country's last forty years of political history and I claim that Radio Radicale has been the largest popular university of institutional politics. There are not many countries in which citizens know how an amendment works, what a motion is, how to vote and how to intervene. And as you tell us that you want the institutions to be next to the citizens, you allow yourself to extinguish the only voice that brought these institutions into everyone's homes, even in your own. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-BP and PD.]] Do you want to race? All right, we've been asking for 24 years. In the Government of Change, do you want to change this? Do it and do it quickly, because Radical Radio has been a great insight and a great institution useful to the country on the issues of justice, trials, prisons, the last, on all the debates, even economic, that have happened. It's not a time problem. Thursday evening, at 8 p.m., we will listen to Professor Conte; two hours were also today, only to allow you, colleagues, to express your opinion, perhaps this one. It is not a matter of time, therefore, but a matter of political decision. You who have been the protagonists of Radical Radio for forty years - because the protagonists are you and certainly not me - simply want to close it and delete it. I think that you are not doing yourselves a favor, neither to you, nor to the listeners and listeners, who, precisely from Radio Radicale, have learned to know and appreciate the institutions. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-BP and PD and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u30	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists wants to use this space because, unlike other times (I say this with all due respect that this House owes to every kind of act that is being examined), I think (as President Marcucci has already explained a great deal) that we are not just talking about changing the agenda; we are doing it with particular regard to two issues that are at least embarrassing, where by 'embarrassment' I mean something very close to shame. My speech on the calendar is intended to keep the discussion on the Economic and Financial Document on 29 and 30 April and to find a space - since there is enough space - to discuss the motions on Radical Radio these days. I'm leaving the DEF. It is clear that the document of economics and finance is not only a significant act compared to all the work that is carried out by this House during the year, but also because of the context in which it falls. It is for this reason that we consider it unacceptable - and we said so at the Conference of the Leaders - that there is such a narrow debate and above all that we do not take into account what is happening while we are discussing the new Economic and Financial Document. In the same way it is not irrelevant what the hearings are telling us, even those that have been there today. I don't know if the government realizes that. We wanted to allow you to work one more week, perhaps to read well the hearings that are going on, because GDP does not grow as you had expected; debt grows much more than what you foreshadowed, to reach 135 percent in 2022; VAT is there and remains and there is no written in your DEF that will be removed, as there is no other rule of economic policy that goes in the direction of relaunching our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Moreover, as the trade associations reminded us this morning, there is also a more than significant reduction in consumption in this country. This is the economic context. A week you needed it; maybe it wasn't enough, but you certainly needed it. Added to this is what the President has once again mentioned with regard to the table in the Note of Variations. Mr President, we remain convinced of our position, namely that this House should arrange for the error to be settled by a rule of first instance, not merely as a material error. However, to President Marcucci's exhaustive words, I would like to add a consideration, namely that if we had not been alerted on time to recall what happened during the debate on the budget law, this House would probably not have been informed either. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Last week, on a case-by-case basis, I was present in the Budget Committee, and on that occasion the President, in the Bureau, simply informed the members of the Bureau itself that a table in the Note of Changes to the Budget Law was wrong, after the Constitutional Court had expressed itself in response to our appeal: that is what happened. We therefore immediately informed the President, asking him to intervene at least in order to inform all the senators, because otherwise - I repeat - President Pesco would only have informed the senators present in the Bureau of the Budget Commission. I believe that this is unacceptable and it highlights even more the need to have a certain style, as well as more appropriate content and within the scope of the task of governing the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We also needed a certain institutional style and this is not the first time we have noticed it. It seems to me to relive the discussion - to use a grotesque key - that we lived on last year's DEF: it almost seems to return to that majority in sin who actually took the reins from those who had governed until then and who was of other political brand. This is the DEF after a year of government, after a budget law and three months after a new budget law: there is nothing written down. The other issue, no less important, is that of Radical Radio. I think it's a shame: this isn't about deciding whether there's an hour's space today or an hour's space maybe later. Here it is a question of whether the 5 Star Movement and the League decide that, after the expiry of 20 May, there is an act of government ratified by this Parliament (here discussed, shared and decided also with this Parliament), through which one of the most important assets of our Republic continues to be such or is deleted: this is the theme. Discussing in these days the motions of Radical Radio meant avoiding what the majority is doing on the subject, canceling the transparency, the ability to archive and deliver to the future the history of this Parliament and all the other events that characterized the history of the twentieth century. The 5 Star Movement and the League are deliberately deciding to erase all this with the usual institutional and cultural protection and are doing it with a gag stroke. Today we will probably lose this battle, because we have not managed to schedule the motions, even if the last call to reconsider I want to do so in my speech. Be assured that we will not stop defending one of the most beautiful assets of our republican history. [[Applause from the PD Group, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Bonino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u31	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's work, put forward by Senators De Petris, Rauti, Marcucci and Malan, to insert the motion on Radio Radicale immediately after the discussion of European law or next week, around 23 April. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work, made by Senators Marcucci and Malan, aimed at discussing the DEF with broader times, as proposed by Senator Malan, or, as specified by Senator Marcucci, going to the week of 29 and 30 April. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law No 822-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Licheri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u33	Mr President, with regard to the fire at the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, may I inform you and the House that the 14th Commission has given a mandate to those who speak to you to send a letter of expression of closeness, solidarity and support to the President of the French Commission, along the path of those universal values to which you have just referred. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Senators, senators, the 2018 European bill presented by the Government in September 2018, was approved at first reading by the Senate last December 5th and in second reading at the House on March 12th. As a result of the amendments and additions made at first and second readings, the text now consists of 22 articles, dealing with six infringement procedures, four EU-Pilot cases and two state aid cases. In addition, two directives are implemented; five regulations are adapted and an international agreement on the European arrest warrant and delivery procedure between Member States is implemented. The measure is of particular importance, as it aims to reduce the number of procedures for infringement of European law, which have increased further with the latest decisions taken by the European Commission on 7 March. In fact, 74 infringement proceedings are currently open against Italy, 64 of which are for infringement of EU law and 10 for failure to transpose directives. As you pointed out earlier, Mr President, the examination of the draft law at third reading is limited only to parts modified or introduced by the other branch of Parliament. The 14th Commission has therefore made no amendments to the text, limiting itself to the adoption of an agenda on equal conditions between Italian professionals and from other Member States for the pursuit of the professions for which a traineeship is required in Italy. On the other hand, another agenda has been accepted by the Government, which also aims to avoid situations of disadvantage for Italian professionals compared to their foreign colleagues from countries whose systems provide for more limited courses of study and training in terms of duration and complexity. The changes made to the Chamber of Deputies are as follows. Article 1, amending the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, referred to in Legislative Decree No 206 of 9 November 2007, in order to define the issues covered by the European infringement procedure No 2018/1175, has been amended by the Chamber of Deputies only to the letter (f) of paragraph 1, which concerns certain hypotheses relating to the compensatory measures required under the general system of recognition of qualifications, in the event that the training carried out in the other Member State provides for subjects substantially different from those provided in Italy for the profession in question. In such cases, the competent authority - and not the person concerned - shall be given the choice between aptitude test and adaptation period, but must submit the person concerned to a subsequent final check. With the amendment approved to the Chamber, the hypotheses in which the choice of the most appropriate compensatory measure, between the adaptation period or the aptitude test, is returned to the State rather than to the applicant, have been combined in a single paragraph. It is therefore a purely technical reformulation, with no substantial modificative scope. Article 3, inserted ex novo with an amendment of the Government approved to the Chamber and containing provisions in the matter of foreign language readers, in reference to the case EU-Pilot 2079/11/EMPL, postpones by ten months (from 31 December 2018 to 31 October 2019) the deadline within which the universities will have to conclude the additional headquarters contracts in order to pay the former readers the same economic treatment as for university researchers. Article 6, also introduced during the examination in the Chamber, with an amendment by the rapporteur, concerns the designation of the competent authorities under EU regulation 2018/302 (so-called geoblocking), aimed at preventing forms of discrimination on the basis of nationality, place of residence or establishment in respect of purchasers of goods or services in the internal market. This Article designates the Competition and Market Authority as competent for the application of the Regulation (pursuant to Article 7 thereof) and entrusts the National Centre of the European Consumer Network (ECC-Net) with the task of assisting consumers in disputes with traders. Article 15 lays down implementing provisions for EU Directive 2017/1654, which has implemented the obligations imposed on the Union by the Treaty of Marrakesh and to which Member States are required to comply by 11 October 2018. The legislation aims to ensure that blind people, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in reading printed texts have access to books and other types of publications, including music scores, on any media, including in audio and digital format. To this end, the article provides for exceptions to copyright and related copyright for copies of protected works, which have been transformed into a format accessible to persons with visual disabilities, thus informing Article 71-a of Law No 633 of 1941 with the addition of twelve new paragraphs which essentially reflect the forecasts of Articles 1 to 5 of the Directive. This exception shall not apply where accessible versions are already available on the market. With an amendment approved to the Chamber it has been foreseen that, if accessible versions of a work or other protected material are already available, it is still possible to make new versions only in order to improve the accessibility or quality of the existing versions. Article 18 has been added by an amendment of the Government approved to the House on the management of nuclear and radioactive waste, with a view to resolving two points of dispute concerning infringement procedure No 2018/2021, at the stage of formalisation under Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). In particular, the article provides for the introduction of Article 1-a in Legislative Decree No 45 of 4 March 2014 implementing Directive 2011/60/Euratom, in order to establish that, for damage resulting from the poor management of nuclear or radioactive waste, primary responsibility is given to producers of spent fuel or radioactive waste and to persons holding authorisations for activities or installations related to the management of spent fuel or radioactive waste. In the absence of such entities, paragraph 2 provides for the State to assume such subsidiary responsibility. This subsidiary liability excludes refunds on foreign sources of dissolved sealed sources or spent fuel from research reactors, taking into account the applicable international agreements. Paragraph 3 instead confers on the State subsidiary responsibility for dispatch to another Member State or to a third country, for the purposes of treatment or reprocessing, spent fuel and radioactive waste produced in the national territory, including any waste as by-products. However, the subsidiary responsibility of the State is limited to disposal only and not also to other management activities. Paragraph 4, in line with the provisions of the Directive, specifies that if radioactive waste or spent fuel were to be shipped to Italy for treatment or reprocessing, the subsidiary responsibility for the safe and responsible disposal of such radioactive material, including any waste as by-products, is of the Member State or third country from which such radioactive material was dispatched. Paragraph 5 provides that the implementation of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be effected without new or increased burdens on public finances. Article 20 refers to the EU-Pilot case concerning the disposal of shavings and prunings. In particular, the specific article which is excluded from waste management procedures, as referred to in Part IV of the Environment Code, also cracks and prunings carried out in the context of good farming practices and that their use in agriculture, forestry or for the production of biomass energy may also take place outside the place of production or with transfer to third parties. Finally, with an amendment approved by the House, it was envisaged that the clefts and prunings resulting from the maintenance of the public green of municipalities and metropolitan cities should also be excluded from the concept of refusal. In Article 22, which contains the financial invariance clause, an amendment approved to the Chamber shall be without prejudice to Article 4, which provides for financial charges for which it is also provided for in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u34	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u35	Mr President, before I go into the substance of the draft law under discussion, I would like to thank President Licheri and the entire Commission, majority and minority, for the excellent work they have done. During these months, during the examination of the draft European law, there have been no lack of debates, sometimes heated but always constructive and in the common interest. Moving on to the text under discussion, the process of the measure involving Italy's participation in the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies began in the Senate on 26 September 2018. The rules to prevent the opening of infringement proceedings or to allow the closure of infringement proceedings have therefore been included in the draft law. Of the 22 articles that have been taken into consideration, I would like to draw attention to those for which I have spent a great deal, because I thought them somewhat bizarre in their principle and in their purpose; moreover, the direct initiatives that we have undergone by decision of Europe and at the hands of the European Commission are already bizarre in themselves in the bud, let alone in their practical interpretation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A clear example was given in Article 1, which contains provisions on the recognition of professional qualifications. We speak specifically of professional qualifications such as pharmacists, nurses, physiotherapists and others. They are professions that need a training course in our country that begins at the best with a precise admission test and with a considerable cost of sacrifices by families to bring their children to the end of the journey. The same thing does not apply in countries such as Romania, Bulgaria or Hungary, where the same training course lasts six months, and not three years or five as in Italy, and costs a maximum of 1,500 euros, while from us, if all goes well, it costs 35,000 euros. And then at the end of the journey in these countries you must not even carry out the final internship. These are the wrong rules which once again blur the obvious evidence of a Europe that works at two, if not three speeds; a Europe that does not even recognize the diversity of preparation; a Europe that requires more and more equal, without merit, with so many duties and few rights. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have therefore introduced more restrictive rules for those who want to carry out these activities comparable to European criteria, which are equal to ours, adding additional examinations - real and admission tests - precisely to safeguard young Italians who, otherwise, would see jobs being whipped without having any say in the matter. The same thing we saw in Article 2, where the simple word "services" went to bring down an entire working class, that of real estate brokers or real estate agents, already affected by an infinite market crisis. With our modification they can continue to have the opportunity to manage their business better by letting them work precisely in those services that today run the entire chain of the commerce of the houses and the rent of the buildings themselves, as they have repeatedly pointed out listening to them in audition, with the guarantee of having made incompatible this activity for all the employees of the credit institutions and insurance companies. In this way, all operators in this category are guaranteed equal work and the free trade market. Finally, I should like to conclude with Article 20, which contains provisions on the disposal of staggers and prunings. And I would like to dwell briefly on this. I am well aware of my great sympathy for local administrators, both small and medium-sized municipalities, which I have never hidden, especially in this House. Having in the past had the good fortune of running locally and knowing very well their difficulties, I can't resist these things. You must excuse me, but when I see Community acts or Community directives, or whatever the hell you want, that aim to undermine the good work our mayors do every day through various administrative difficulties, I can't and I don't want to turn my head on the other side. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This has already been done by others until today, and we do not. It doesn't matter if Europe, the European Commission and its wrong rules are in front of us. The rules change and the Commissions as well. Thanks to our modification, mayors will be able to secure our parks, the public green, disassemble the grass, arrange the banks, remove the weeds and then close their budgets in holy peace without additional costs for the municipal coffers. I open and close a parenthesis: while we are here, I would like to remind all of us that today most of the mayors of this country are also keeping in order that public green that was of provincial competence and that today no one more reorders [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , thanks to those phenomena that have abolished the Provinces. To the mayors the people ring the doorbell and the MPs don't. I hope that we will soon get our hands on it; just so as not to forget, I remind everyone of it. Turning back to the European law under discussion, we can therefore say that the euroidiocy that cracks and prunings become special waste for the moment has been averted, but I am sure that the game will not end here. You see, we spend most of our time in the Commission trying to solve infringements and dedicating ourselves to the transposition of delegated acts, which are mostly crazy, so much so that many times, reading them, I wonder which minds can think of such things. However, I have an awareness that gives me hope: in forty days' time it will no longer be the cracks and prunings that are being disposed of, but it will be a European Commission that does not represent us and that has never represented anyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament which will emerge from the May elections will have to define and conclude the debate and interaction with the Council in order to prepare the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which is the scheme by which, year after year, the Union will decide on the revenue and expenditure of the budget. This is happening in a very difficult context. Eurosceptic and sovereignist forces are advancing in several countries, the Brexit issue is still very open and the world economy is struggling. In view of this, it seems difficult and controversial to move towards Community integration, which would, in fact, be very necessary, particularly in order to define the long-term strategy of the budget. A real strategic sharing would enhance the positive consideration that our fellow citizens have of the European Union. The preparation of budgetary proposals has been going on for a long time and we hope that the Government will make its voice heard with greater strength and credibility. It is unthinkable, in fact, that Italy, the founding country, as well as one of the most advanced economies, will assist the margins of the debate, isolated from others, probably - perhaps - because of your incomprehensible foreign policy. Instead, you should fight in the appropriate fora so that there is a considerable increase in the European Union's budget appropriations, which have so far been very insignificant (we are in the order of 1% of European GDP). The lack of budget availability is certainly one of the aspects that makes monetary union weak, because it is not accompanied by a fiscal union. As a government, you should ensure that the announced cuts in the common agricultural policy are contained and preserve our national interests. President Conte has done well to take an open stand against these cuts, but words are not enough; deeds are needed. Italy - we all know - is isolated in Europe. And how do you intend to network with other countries to discourage this risk? Agriculture is martyred, especially in the South, in my Puglia, where for months we have been in full emergency xylella. As the European Commissioner for Health and Consumer Policy said, time has run out for chatter or conspiracy. Today it must also be understood that good cooperation with regional and local authorities is needed, acting together as a team, and not as in the past, when local and regional authorities made their decisions and the national government was always behind schedule. Europe must play its part and you, as a government, must exert all the pressure necessary to make this happen. You must also speak, but above all take care of the Mezzogiorno. You've forgotten our Mezzogiorno a little bit. Lately you are always on the warpath and all you do is fight, maybe just to show off (I don't know). But while you challenge each other with press releases and interviews, our Mezzogiorno awaits and in the meantime dies. Browse less on Facebook and make less proclamations on television, but go to Europe to ask for more money and above all more attention for our businesses and our young people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let me conclude by saying that I simply believe that we need a liberal approach to investment aimed at the development of competitiveness, infrastructure and above all, gentlemen, health. Do not abandon the Mezzogiorno, health care has serious problems. People don't know where to take care of themselves, and I do nothing but talk to you about health care every time I speak. As I said, they can improve the issues of the Mezzogiorno, but there is a lack of public investment which creates employment and, above all, a serious vision of revitalising the South in order to adapt it to the rest of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u38	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u39	Mr President, my fellow senators and my fellow senators, the measure before the Senate House today, which contains European law 2018, has as its main purpose the adaptation of national law periodically to that of the European Union. Given its nature, there are very varied interventions that affect different areas of relevance and in many areas of our lives, not least, often relevant. In particular, in this speech I would like to go into two aspects that are at my heart: the fight against discrimination in favour of all Italian and European consumers and the implementation of the single digital European market, which unfortunately remains to be completed effectively. I am referring to Article 6, which adapts internal legislation to EU Regulation 302 of 2018, which provides for the prohibition of widespread geoblocking practice. The Regulation, which entered into force on 3 December 2018, awaited completion by each Member State with the designation of the competent authorities. By the law we are voting today, we are calling the Competition and Market Authority as the body responsible for the application of the Regulation, with powers of injunctions and sanctions, as well as the National Centre of the European Consumer Network as the body responsible for providing assistance to consumers in the event of a dispute between consumers and professionals. But what are we talking about when we use geoblocking, i.e. geoblocking? We mean that discriminatory practice for which we could not make online purchases throughout Europe without running into the usual unexpecteds, such as overprices or credit card blocking, not accepted just because our country of residence is different from that of the seller's home. How does geoblocking manifest? Let's say that we find an offer of a product that we like on a site that is, for example, in the UK or Germany and that we may proceed to online registration and, finally, to payment. At this point we are redirected to the Italian site that, in the vast majority of times, is not configured to accept the offer that we have chosen on the site of a Member State. The result is that we cannot buy the chosen product or we are offered a higher price. All this protectionism on the local markets, which only benefited multinationals to the detriment of consumers, is now considered unjustified. Therefore, in the digital single market, the digital single market on which the European Union is investing so much, geoblocking has been banned. The European Commission's data has been very enlightening in highlighting discrimination against EU consumer citizens: in 2017 57 percent of Europeans bought online (a figure that rises to 68% for regular network users), while one third of consumers turned to shops in another EU country. However, only 37% of attempts to buy from users of one Member State on a website in another European country have been successful. One of the reasons for this is the practice of geographical blockades. The purpose of the Regulation is therefore to remove such restrictions and unblock e-commerce by preventing discrimination of consumers and businesses as regards access to prices and conditions of sale or payment in purchases of goods and services in another EU country. Under the new rules, operators can no longer discriminate on the basis of the residence of customers with regard to general terms and conditions, including prices, since delivery arrangements must be agreed between buyer and seller. Discrimination is also excluded for online services (such as cloud services, data storage and website hosting) or for services such as accommodation in hotels and car rental, which the customer receives in the country where the operator is based. Unjustified customer discrimination in relation to payment methods is also prohibited. Some services, such as financial, audiovisual, transport, health and social services, are excluded, while the European Commission will review services related to content protected by copyright or works in intangible form, such as music streaming services and electronic books. But the problem arises here: it seems incredible, but when you go to touch the privileges of the lobby of publishers and entertainment companies, the route is always very rough, for consumers of course. From the measures I have described, it is clear that European action on geoblocking is still lacking: digital media such as music, e-books, software and online games remain excluded and, above all, large entertainment companies remain favored to the detriment of simple consumers. Also for the cross-border portability of online services, to which the other Regulation refers, No 1128 of 2017, already in force since 1 April, an exception has been made for public television networks, which will be able to decide whether to grant portability or not. If, therefore, the end of the geographical blockades represents a new opportunity for both consumers, who will have more opportunities to choose, and for businesses in the e-commerce sector, still many protection walls must fall. We hope that the new European Parliament, after the May elections, will finally be able to remove these obstacles. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u40	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss European law 2018, which together with the European delegation law is one of the two instruments provided by Law No 234 of 2012 for the periodic adaptation of national law to that of the European Union. It is therefore a necessary instrument to transpose the Union's legislative acts into our legal system and to eliminate or reduce as much as possible the regulatory differences between the European and national legal systems. These are conflicts which, if not resolved, involve, as is known, the opening of an infringement procedure by the European Commission, the body prepared to ensure that all Member States apply Union law correctly. I should like to make a brief political comment on the functioning of the European institutions. In recent years we have literally witnessed an explosion of infringement procedures at European level, with numbers that have exponentially increased compared to previous years. From 2014 to 2017, 3,337 infringement procedures were launched in Europe in total, with an average of around 119 litigations per country and around 834 procedures per year. These are numbers that make you think and that take even more value if you join another trend that emerges, if you analyze the data related to the procedures. In fact, it is noted that there is a decrease in infringement procedures relating to non-application of the indications, while, on the contrary, procedures relating to incorrect transposition are increasing at European level. We cannot avoid, in the light of this data, a reflection on the functioning of the Union, an institution which, from the initial dream of an area of peaceful coexistence for the peoples of Europe, has been transformed over the years more and more into a bureaucratic monster, characterized by a regulatory mania; characteristics which contribute predominantly to the feeling of aversion that European citizens have towards the Community institutions, now seen as averted from reality and irreconcilable with the different needs of the Member States. It is for these reasons that we look forward to the vote of 26 May: only a great and real change, not like those that have been mentioned in recent years and never applied in reality, can really save the European institutions from themselves. I would like to refer to the speech on infringement procedures, a second political comment that concerns our country. Italy is often and willingly distracted by representatives of the European institutions or by representatives of Member States who proclaim themselves virtuous and attentive to the Community's Diktats. Without entering into the age-old issue of the deficit, it is enough to analyse the number of procedures pending against Member States to find that Italy is in a much better position than large European countries in this unfortunate ranking. In front of Italy due to the number of pending infringement procedures are, for example, Spain, Belgium and also the great Germany, proving that often the media and political narrative that is done with respect to our country is tendentious, aimed at undermining the commitment that Italy continues to promote within the European institutions and aimed at undermining also our country system. A commitment, our constant, but always aimed at a real improvement of the Union, always aimed at defending - and I stress to defend - the interests of our country at Community level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Arriving at the measure, as usual, European law is an omnibus bill; the arguments contained in the measure are very heterogeneous: the issue of the free movement of persons, services and goods, the protection of human health and copyright, environmental and energy issues, the VAT regime, justice, safety and transport. However, I would like to stress the importance, among others, of Article 5 of this Act, which deals with the long-standing question of delays in public administration payments and in particular the time lag between the testing of the work carried out by the contractor and the issue of the payment certificate from which the time limit for making the payment takes effect. The article aims at overcoming the infringement procedure 2017/2090: according to the interpretation of the European Commission, the current Italian legislation allows Italian public procurement stations to not comply with the deadline within which the payment must be made, which must absolutely take place within 30 calendar days from the date on which the obligations are carried out. The article in question modifies the rules contained in our Code of Public Contracts, with the aim of concentrating all the prodromic obligations on payment in such a way as to be able to fulfil the obligations in good time and not to harm the contractors or suppliers. Another important change within the present law is that included in Article 15, which carries with it a great symbolic value. This article contains the provisions implementing Directive 2017/1564, which aims to ensure that blind people, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in reading printed texts have access to books and other types of publications on any medium, including in digital audio formats. The aim of the provisions is therefore twofold: on the one hand to introduce an exception to copyright in favour of the blind, the visually impaired or the visually impaired, in order to remove all possible obstacles to finding works in accessible format; on the other hand, to facilitate cross-border exchanges of accessible format works. Ladies and gentlemen, in concluding, I would like to highlight the importance of the measure in question following the implementation of several European directives and disarming the process of opening up new infringement procedures. I repeat the need for a real and substantial change of the European institutions. The aim must be to bring these institutions closer to the real needs of each Member State, taking into account the structural, cultural and economic differences and peculiarities of the different European countries. The European Union must also exist in the recognition of the differences between the countries that make up it and not be transformed into that bureaucratic machine that imposes and sanctions, as reminds us of the devastating experiences that took place in Greece or Italy in 2011. Carrying forward the interests of Italy, our citizens and Made in Italy is a commitment that we made at the beginning of this legislature. I feel that I will ensure that this commitment will continue, along with many others that we are planning to bring to Europe, so that the Government of Common Sense can also be implemented there. Always and anyway: first the Italians! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u42	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u43	Mr President, we are intervening on European law, which is nothing more than an answer to avoid infringement procedures. We of Brothers of Italy have spoken about the merit of this bill - our president did so, I did it last December - and we saw that in fact he came out of the Chamber without any particular variations, so he is here today, during the third examination, confirming that he is yet another nullity measure that nothing does to improve this country, to bring to our system Country that something that would really serve. It is yet another measure that also affects the economic and structural fabric of the country. I simply recall one point on this point, namely Article 2, which I mentioned in my speech on 5 December. Well, Article 2 has a negative effect on the figure of the agents in mediation; a professional figure that was protected by the existing Italian law and that today, having to adapt to European regulations, in fact becomes a cholabrodo. Basically, going in concrete, after the approval of this bill, anyone or almost anyone can become a mediator: the employee rather than the collaborator of a law firm, perhaps engaged in the bankruptcy field, therefore directly interested in the real estate field, will be able to subscribe to the register of mediators and thus interfere in this field. That is how Europe has a real impact on our professions, but I spoke about it for a long time in December. I wanted to make a call, a lie, and move on. We are now in general discussion, so I prefer to speak about European policy, talk about this Europe and how we are approaching those elections that will have to establish a watershed between a B-series Europe, such as the one we have today, a Europe of bureaucrats and high finance, and a Europe of peoples, which we really want to achieve with the right-wings in the next European legislature. Well, to talk about Europe and politics, friends of the Democratic Party, I can only refer to the words of your President Zingaretti, who today said that if the right-wings win our lives will get worse. President Zingaretti, friends of the Democratic Party, I would just like to make a brief summary of what Italy and Europe have been during the five-year period of Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri and the Ministry of Mogherini: a Europe that has become the playground of French and German interests thanks to the acquiescence and passivity of an Italian Government that has been hetero-directed from Brussels and that has never had the courage to impose its political will on a Europe that traveled on two tracks. There was the track of those who commanded and had the privileges, that is, the Germans and the French, and the track of Italy, which suffered and even reacted passively by applying all the European indications in its national policy. These are not my lies; they are concrete facts and, then, I would like to remind you and your colleagues in this House of the recent ruling last month by which the European Court of Justice apparently proved Italy right about the affair of the Abruzzo bank Tercas, which could not have been saved with the money of the Interbank Fund (and therefore with the private money - I stress - of the banking system), as had been done until then, because the European Commission considered them state aid. I said these things to Commissioner Vestager; I said that they as the European Commission had children and stepchildren: the children were precisely the Franco-Germans, who could do what they wanted and then there were the others who had to comply with the Commission's provisions. Well, Italy, when the Commission stopped using the Interbank Fund to save the Tercas bank, did nothing at all because Mrs Mogherini and the members of the Democratic Party who ruled our country kept quiet and uncritically accepted the positions of the European Commission, except now, when the European Court ruled that it was not exactly right what had been done, to accept it obviously with satisfaction. A state that is respected and has at heart the interests of its citizens and its entrepreneurs would have raised its voice then and would have reacted to the system. All the banking problems that followed Tercas forward (Banca Etruria, Monte dei Paschi and the popular banks) would have been much more easily resolved if Italy had had the courage to respond to Europe, truly protecting Italian interests. So unfortunately it has not been done. Today we can say this: Europe has responded to us in fact, but I have to think - sometimes, to think wrong, as someone said - that perhaps we are right when the times for us have expired, because Germany is faced with the very serious problems of Deutsche Bank and the need to bring to public unification Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank with public money (the same public money that we have not been able to use). As a matter of fact, the European Court of Justice then intervenes by giving Italy late reason, so perhaps this will allow Germany to proceed to the union between these two German banks in serious difficulty. That is what Europe was that you, friends, wanted and governed over the last five years. That is why we are sure to present ourselves on 26 May with the strength and commitment to guarantee to Italians and Europeans all another Europe, the Europe that more than you wants to respond to the true spirit of the Treaties of Rome. The dilemma, then, is: A people's Europe or a bureaucrat's Europe? We are certainly for the Europe of peoples. The future of Europe lies in sovereignism, because only when we are able to react to the impositions, the preferential tracks and safeguard our European continent, our traditions, the values of our peoples, the traditions of our farmers, artisans and entrepreneurs, will we then have a Europe that will compete in the world. If, on the other hand, we want to open the borders of this Europe in the name of a false Europeanism (as it has been for years) and passively suffer the Diktat of banks and high finance by flattening everything, if that is Europe that should look to the near future, poor us and poor our businesses. But be assured that on our part, at least, on the part of those rights on which President Zingaretti ironifies, there will be that response, together with the Italian and European voters, that will finally allow us to find a straight back and to have a Europe that defends its own borders, its own traditions and its own values. What, then, is Europe - and I come to the conclusion - to which we want to oppose? First of all, a Europe which - I remember so much in order to make it clear - sees us as net contributors. We give Europe on average - and I am talking about the last seven years - over EUR 5 billion more than we receive; that is to clarify. Which Europe do we want to face then? A Europe that, even in the banking system (and I want to conclude precisely on the banking system and on the relations between Europe and the banks) will have to return to Italy the equality of confrontation and potential that has been lost. [[Call the president back.]] We have, ladies and gentlemen, in fact - and I conclude, Mr President - seen the so-called local banks, the neighbouring banks, the banks which in Germany are the backbone of the credit, with more than 40% of the German credit and which we, thanks to the Renzi reforms, have seen today fall to 10% of the credit. Popular banks and rural banks that were the reference point of our businesses, thanks to these reckless reforms, driven by Brussels, have actually disappeared in our country today. We note with pleasure that Minister Fraccaro has said his own and has turned back (but we want to see it in the facts), saying that this shameful reform that the last five years of the left have brought to the government will have to be reversed. FARAONE (PD). No way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I shall end by asking the whole of Parliament to engage across the board, even in different positions, in order to ensure that we all go to Europe, perhaps with different ideas and positions, but with the pride of being Italians, therefore Italians protagonists in Europe and not passively heterodirected by Europe or, better, by Franco-Germans. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u44	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the students of the Multi-Comprehensive Institute of Brunico, in the province of Bolzano, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u45	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u46	Mr President, during the first reading of the measure that we are debating here today, we recalled how important European law is a political step and cannot be regarded as merely a formal implementation of European legislation but must be assessed as an instrument that directly links our country with the responsibility for membership of the European Union: it specifies the way in which we want to be and participate in the process of integration and harmonisation (which is especially important now, at the gates of the 26 May appointment with the renewal of the European Parliament and, subsequently, with the formation of the other decision-making bodies, starting with the European Commission). With this last passage in the House of European law we certainly had a confirmation of the method, that is the inability of the majority of the Government to dialogue in the Commission on the various issues with the oppositions and in the interest of the country: not an amendment, even reworded, you wanted to take into consideration (unless you adopt it in the other branch of Parliament), nor did you want to deal with important matters, such as traineeships for the free movement of professions in the internal market, environmental matter with the definition of refusal, and provisions on former foreign language readers. Your attitude is summed up in a muscular exercise of power and position. You have also missed an opportunity, that of enhancing the work of this Assembly and its own function, including the possibility for your senators, the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, to be able to make their contribution: they appear all too often silent and subordinate. So now yours is an almost contemptuous method for the function of democratic institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A European law that takes on even more political value today since the signing of the Treaties of Rome, in a very particular context, in a Union that is today between two opposing fires: on the one hand Brexit, the first process of disintegration and exit from the Union with all its uncertainties, on the other hand the proposal to speed up towards a closer Eurozone Union in a two-speed Europe hypothesis. A political future, therefore, which opens up with the elections to the European Parliament, which cannot be reduced to a mere confrontation between sovereignists and Europeanists, as has been reiterated in this House today. We are not reducing the debate between two opposing supporters, because national interest is a priority for us too and can be better protected and guaranteed by being in the Union and not against the Union: we have seen it with the phenomenon of migration and the need to progress towards a single control of the external border and a single policy of cooperation and development aid in Africa and towards a single common foreign and defence policy, now more than ever with the re-exploding of the war in Libya. You invoke more Europe and act against: against the revision of the Dublin Treaty, against the Migration compact, against Frontex and against the European control of the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But what national boundaries can ever defend us from such phenomena and pressures? Faced with the weakness of the action of international bodies, only a stronger and credible Europe can play a leading role in the moving chessboard of international geopolitics. And it is precisely in the interest of our Italy, because of its geographical location and its weaknesses, to demand that the methods of bilateral alliances be overcome and that the intergovernmental method be finally handed over to history. The Europe we imagine is Europe which guarantees the most advanced legislation in the world in the fields of competition, consumer protection, research and development, environmental and health protection. A story of Europe is necessary, of the sixty years of peace, of rights and progress: a huge value patrimony and benefits that our children almost take for granted, but that today is threatened. It is Europe that Antonio Megalizzi and his young colleagues from Europhonica wanted to tell to give awareness of a concrete project for European youth that unites us, European militants from Lisbon to Helsinki and Palermo. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A system that offers opportunities, but certainly also shows storture; a system that is certainly to be updated in relation to the new challenges, in the face of an increasing demand for protection, towards a stronger and fairer Europe. With your economic and financial proposals, on the contrary, you are turning us away from this prospect and now risk falling into the irreversible vortex of infringement and crisis, out of the possibility of drawing on resources for investment and reform. The slip is certified in the Document of Economy and Finance that you presented: more unemployment, more crisis and more debt. You risk slipping Italy to the bottom, towards that state of surveillance and subordination to the Euroburocracy that you said you wanted to fight, and to condemn us will be your allies, those of the group of Visegrád who consider us the weak and unstable link of the chain. We are convinced that precisely in times of difficulty, Europe is not part of the problem, but part of the solution to the great challenges of our time. Of course, this Europe is a strange Europe: in the short circuit linking England and Greece, between a Great Britain that is pressing to get out of the Union and a Greece that is almost sold out to stay there. So let the doors open with the next European elections at a new beginning, for a constituent phase, and let us recover the original value project, for a Europe with a human and intelligent face as it is effective in relation to the concrete problems to be faced. A more credible and united Europe in external relations, stronger and more legitimate within it. It is the Europe of the peoples that we want. The Europe that is closing and moving in front of Notre-Dame in flames. Strong in our history, in the knowledge that we will be able to rebuild the cathedral and its beauty. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u47	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, talk about European law just a few weeks after a vote that is announced, however it goes, revolutionary for the balance of the community of the Member States, I think it is good for political dialectic. This is provided that it does not become an opportunity to make ideological propaganda without taking account of the facts. And above all, provided it is an opportunity for frank and open comparison on the goodness or not of the relationship between the national state and suprastate union. Like I said, I'd like to look at the facts. And the facts are that we are approving one of the two main legislative instruments through which Parliament applies the legislative directives that come to us from the European Union, adapting our internal legislation to them. Without a doubt, in the process of integration between different state entities, it is, from year to year, a significant step forward that, at the same time, gives us the measure of how much the path is going up that everyone, with different visions and different ways to achieve the result pursued, we propose to achieve, that is, the birth of an efficient and solidarity Europe. 18.01 (Followed by Mr Pucciarelli). Free movement of persons, services and goods; justice and security; transport, customs taxation and state aid; copyright; protection of human health; environment. As far as these issues are concerned, one cannot help but feel that Europe wants to take care of everything, losing sight of the overall framework in which the application of one or more directives or regulations should be incorporated. That is why Europe, in the eyes of its citizens, is a monster of contradictions. Some aspects enjoy bipartisan consent, others are opposed by the people, because they are perceived as dangerous or, at best, useless and too often, many of them are really dangerous or useless. The precision with which European directives and regulations regulate aspects, even minimal ones, of the sectors of the state public affairs is enormous with the extent of the open problems, which have not yet been resolved and which Europe rarely listens to. We are in infringement proceedings or EU-Pilot in many areas where, at times, being in breach means protecting or protecting the national interest, because legislation coming from Brussels has perhaps been tailored to the needs of the states of the Centre or Northern Europe, thus damaging Mediterranean countries, in the first place our own. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Believing in a Europe united in diversity is a dream, even before a political project, which none of us have decided to abolish. But in order to do so it is necessary to be aware of the problems that are all too often masked by the pervasiveness of a regulation that, to say everything, ends up saying nothing. The free movement of men and goods must not be synonymous with indiscriminate competition and, above all, must not lead to a downward war on labour costs, with contracts made in one State on the basis of the legislation or the lower social protection of another State. Similarly, it is hypocritical to respect the spirit of the Dublin Treaty only for the part concerning the abolition of internal border controls, without bearing in mind that the external borders have not been abolished by that Treaty at all and, indeed, from an interstate perspective, they become the only truly important ones. Only by defending our geographical and economic area in Europe is it possible to stimulate internal trade and ensure the movement of men and goods. The issue of state aid is also a matter of concern to austerity theorists and as such must be addressed. First, it must be stressed that other countries have made extensive use of it in the past to save their banks and economies, but that today seems to have no memory of them anymore. The care of austerity imposed on Greece was mortal to the Greek people and healthy to the German banks. Germany itself, which imposes strictness on the states in difficulty, has avoided the default for three times thanks to the halving and sterilization of its enormous war debts, which could never have paid: well, among the countries that decided not to charge the bill there were also Italy and Greece. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is to be said, in hindsight, that we should not only ask for the full amount, but also demand interest. A truly supportive Europe cannot stand at the mercy of the brute forces of the financial economy and lobbying. In fact, it cannot be thought that the State abstains from the economic chain, reducing the perimeter of its jurisdiction more and more, in favour of a not well-defined market economy now no longer existing. As long as state aid is conceived as a way of making up cards in the economy, we will not be able to defend in the long term the social protection acquired over the decades by European workers. Among the many measures we are debating in the European Affairs Commission, I would like to find something that mentions the Central Bank as a lender of last resort, a role which, if taken, would defuse market turbulence in the name of transnational solidarity and a common European perspective. There would be no more coup d'état favored by the spread. In essence, it is okay to deal with volcanological guides and all the other detailed aspects of European law 2018, but let us not lose sight of the macro-questions that endanger the entire European scaffolding. At the next financial shock, Europe risks falling like a paper castle, if we do not quickly change its way of dealing with States and also the way of States to relate to each other. It is time to stop thinking, in fact, that the contrast between nations has ceased to exist with the birth of Europe. The contrast has remained and has been cast in a structure that does not allow mediation, but that covers in a opaque way the unfolding of the contrasts in which the strongest or most efficient countries on the international level have the best. We can see this by looking at Libya, which is punctually destabilised by France whenever it moves towards Italy, which is its natural interlocutor thanks to its geographical position, and many other examples could be made. Senator colleagues, let us vote on this law today and let us use it as a reflection for what will have to be implemented from 26 May, that is, finally lay the foundations for a Europe of peoples in which all States have equal dignity and equal treatment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u49	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European law has been a fundamental step in the democratic life of our country for many years now. We are therefore discussing an important law, which is necessary to remedy a series of infringements, apparently merely technical, but which actually have a profound impact on the lives of companies, workers and families. This evidence probably escapes this Government. I say this because we are still waiting to know officially who is in charge of the government to deal with Community affairs. There is certainly an interim of President Conte and it seems that some delegations have again been granted to the Undersecretary Barra Caracciolo, but that is obviously not enough. The Ministry for Community Affairs has a central role to play, having, among other things, competence over the infringements to which Italy is subject. Some mischievous people may think that yours is not merely a mischief, but an explicit desire to ignore the importance and centrality of Italian participation in the life of the European Union. The Ministry, throughout the current year, has not been in a position to work and, from here on out, we do not know what will happen. If we add to what has been said about the fact that the new Community budget is being discussed precisely in recent weeks, particularly because of what is attached to the funds so important to our Mezzogiorno, you will certainly understand our dismay. I am referring to a shock that is getting worse if we add that we are on the eve of the European electoral meeting and that, on the horizon, the stormy clouds of Brexit, with the important repercussions that this event will have on our economy, have not slowed down at all. We can therefore say that, at best, this Government shows disinterest in Europe, if not open hostility, and that is unacceptable. Certainly Europe is not perfect, indeed, but it is our home; a house that has allowed almost a century of peace and economic growth, let us not forget it. This growth stems from the Structural Funds, whose 2021-2027 programming - as I said just now - is under discussion. In particular, the presumed exit of the United Kingdom will bring - alas! - a reduction in the budget available for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. Many countries are mobilizing to prevent this event which poses a serious danger to the preservation and preservation of our agro-industrial heritage. We must work hard, particularly to ensure a future for young farmers. We must help these girls and these boys who see agriculture as an opportunity for redemption and, above all, a way to stay in their own areas of origin. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of emigration is not only linked to people who come to Europe from Africa and Asia, but also to many, perhaps too many families in our South, who see their children leaving looking for opportunities. Who like me comes from the South knows this very well; I, in fact, meet many people, many mothers and many fathers to whom sometimes I have to dry tears because they see their children leave. Encouraging young agricultural entrepreneurship will allow us to have innovations and renewed enthusiasm and, consequently, a better market response, quality food and sustainable development for the environment. Young people who want to do this work must be encouraged and supported. We hope that the Government will also make its voice heard authoritatively in Europe in order to protect our interests. How you can do that without the ad hoc minister will be all to be clarified. Young people would also need the new European Social Fund Plus (ESF+) to be placed within cohesion policy to become an instrument to support investment in human capital for social inclusion. The European Social Fund should also be able to count on more additional resources, as this new instrument has included other programmes, including the key youth employment initiative for which a specific allocation is allocated in the current programming. Colleagues, there might be so many opportunities if we just wanted to seize them, but this government seems to ignore them, too busy fighting and chasing votes. My appeal is therefore as follows: take care of Europe, criticize it if you want, but take care of it by trying to collect the best it can offer for our Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u51	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u52	Mr President, European law 2018 is an important measure that allows us to remedy the rules desired by previous governments that have generated EU-Pilot procedures, thus pre-infringement procedures, which, if not resolved, would lead to the application of very salty fines for Italy. Today, with great satisfaction, I am speaking on a very specific issue, namely the adoption at first reading of an amendment to my first signature to the Senate, which put the word 'end' at the end of a drugged incentive system for biomass, biogas and biogas plants, which would actually favour only incinerators and landfills, causing a new infringement procedure with Europe. The approved amendment, which today constitutes Article 21 of the European law, repeals the provisions of the 2016 budget law. In that budget law an amendment that had the signature of the then majority, therefore with so much name and surname, that is Democratic Party, then Renzi Government, established that also for those plants for the production of electricity fed by biomass, biogas and sustainable comings, that had already taken advantage of the incentives until January 2016 (later extended until December 2018), the opportunity to benefit from incentives on the produced energy, as an alternative to the integration of the revenues, until 31 December 2021 or for five years from the re-entry in exercise of the plants. In essence, these operators, thanks to the repeated extensions, would have had a double incentive therefore, on the one hand, the incentive on the energy produced and, on the other, the integration to the revenues. The granting of these incentives goes through a procedure within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development, and is subject to the favourable decision of the European Commission for the purposes of verifying its compatibility with the State aid guidelines. Thanks to these steps due to the procedure, we have been able to find out from the Ministry of Economic Development that the European Commission has already been able for some time to raise some objections considering the measure not in conformity with the guidelines on State aid for the environment and energy for the years 2014-2020. Also from the Ministry of Development we have also known which companies and which plants had requested access to these incentives, never given to date precisely because object of European dispute. The list published by the Ministry shows that they are mainly large incinerators and landfills, because - it should be pointed out - the Community and national definition of biomass includes the biodegradable fraction of industrial and urban waste. The European Commission therefore considers that Italy has failed to comply with the guidelines as regards the definition of a fixed level of incentive and equal for all installations, the inconsistency of the level of incentive envisaged and the absence of a systematic control mechanism for the scheme. The European Commission also challenges the accounting, among operating costs, of depreciation costs for extraordinary maintenance and write-downs. In short, it considers that these incentives are genuine state aid and therefore not allowed. In order to avoid the opening of an infringement procedure for infringement of European law, the permanent representation of Italy to the European Union requested the suspension of the notification procedure. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the adoption of this amendment saves Italy from a safe and salty new European infringement and is proof to the citizens that the Movimento 5 Star is working in their sole interest. We are respecting our program by carrying out very important laws that have created new rights such as citizenship income, but at the same time, in addition to putting our hearts on, we are also putting our heads together, and we are going to repair, with so much work, all the mistakes and damages committed by previous governments. These are the concrete facts that citizens have always asked for from politics, and today they have a government, a majority that is, in a concrete and tangible way, on their side. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u54	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u55	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u56	Mr President, I also give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u57	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would also like to inform you that the Presidency, in accordance with Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, declares the agendas G6100, G18.100 and G20.100 inadmissible, as they are not related to changes made by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u58	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendment No 1.1 and is in favour of the G1100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u59	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u63	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and President Licheri for sharing the agenda that Brothers of Italy presented to the Commission. The agenda G1,100 addresses an important issue and it is nice that sometimes on these issues, in the end, you can find a broad membership and fight together. What's going on? Among the various rules relating to the adaptation of internal legislation to European legislation, this time too - but this is a question that often occurs - in essence, national laws - in this case ours - are asked to remove obstacles to the free movement of the liberal professions as well. Those who have obtained a professional qualification must have the right to exercise it freely in the different Member States. Last time, Brothers of Italy had already raised the problem - and I thank the undersecretary Barra Caracciolo who, on that occasion too, had accepted our agenda - with a first problem concerning the duration of the training course of Italian boys and of foreign boys. We have the big problem that in Italy the training course, from the beginning of the school to the achievement of the title, is considerably longer than that of many other European states, starting from the diploma. In many European countries, young people graduate at seventeen; in Italy, often at nineteen. The university in many European states is configured on the college model, so at the end of the year you pass the exams, which allows you to obtain the degree in four years net. As far as access to the profession is concerned, there is often an immediate examination of the profession. In view, therefore, of the beginning and end of the course of study, we have a situation whereby in many European countries there are young people who have graduated at twenty-one and twenty-two years, while the same course of study is concluded by young Italians at twenty-five, twenty-six or twenty-eight years and not because they are more clumsy, but because that is the path they must follow. This is therefore a first problem, which we had already put on another approved agenda, so we ask for it to be followed up, leveling the study paths. This time we have an even more striking problem, if you will, which concerns the duration of the professional traineeship. At present, not only in the European law that we are about to approve, but in general, it is not equivalent to the requirement of the internship that is required of those who obtain the title in Italy compared to those who obtain the title abroad. In order to give concrete examples, it is true that an Italian nurse rightly has an obligation to obtain the title, after having completed a period of professional training, but the same is not required in other European countries. This has no justification. While with regard to the duration of the training course you can imagine that in other contexts the path is more effective and therefore can last less, you can not say the same for a professional internship. The professional internship must either be done or not be done. On the agenda presented by Brothers of Italy, which the Commission has made its own, it is said that, if the professional traineeship is planned in Italy, the same professional traineeship must have been carried out by those who have obtained the qualification abroad and want to practise in Italy, or that same person must carry out the traineeship in accordance with Italian legislation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I'm done. It seems to us to be a common sense agenda. We are pleased that the Commission has done so, and we hope that concrete action will be taken. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u64	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u65	We greet and welcome the mayor and administration of the Municipality of Francavilla Fontana, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u66	Article 2 is identical to Article 2 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u67	Mr President, the opinion on the amendment is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u69	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 4 and 5 are identical to Articles 3 and 4 respectively of the text approved by the Senate. The G6100 agenda is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 are identical to Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 respectively of the text approved by the Senate. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 15, corresponding to Article 13 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 16 and 17 are identical to Articles 14 and 15 respectively of the text approved by the Senate. The G18.100 agenda is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18, introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 19 is identical to Article 16 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 20, corresponding to Article 17 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u70	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u71	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u72	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.3 tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.5, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G20.100 agenda is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 20, corresponding to Article 17 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Senator Giarrusso's protests.]] CASTALDI (M5S). It is two legislatures that we are very honest! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, if you wish to speak on the order of business, you can ask for the floor and I'll see if I can give it to you. If you need to report any irregularities, signal it to the secretary senators. MORONESE (M5S). There is no senator and we vote for an absent colleague! Get that bag off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall take note and verify. Let's continue with our work. Article 21 is identical to Article 18 of the text approved by the Senate. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 22, corresponding to Article 19 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u75	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in announcing the abstaining vote of the Senators of Liberi and Equal, I would like to bring some thoughts to the attention of the House. European law is an absolutely important and fundamental event; among other things, this year happens just before the European election lists are presented, and so even more so, I believe that we deserve our reflection. There's a question we think about every time when... (Brusio). I can't talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an explanation of vote. It is not strictly compulsory to remain in this Chamber; instead, it is compulsory to keep quiet or to lower the tone of the voice very much. Don't force me to call back the various sectors of the hemicycle. Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). I'll start over. In announcing the abstention vote of the Senators of Liberi and Uguali, I am obliged to stress a number of issues and to put a number of reflections to the attention of the House and colleagues. European law is certainly an important event every year, because it allows us to take stock of our relationship with the European Union. It is even more so this year, I believe, even if we have now reached the third reading and even if this European law does not include issues of some importance, because it represents an opportunity, all the more so on the eve of the European elections, to make a reflection on the Italian presence within the European Union and in particular on the European law, also on our fragility, which does not only affect this parliamentary term or this last year. I am referring to the fragility of the Italian presence in the ascending stage of the formation of directives and regulations. This has always been one of the fundamental issues. It has always struck me and all of us, perhaps going to Brussels, to see how there was much greater participation by the various national parliaments in the stage of the formation of directives and regulations, and therefore in the ascending phase, which is the fundamental question. Every time, during the discussion of European law, we also take stock of infringement procedures and delays and we realize that our country's participation is absolutely insufficient. This has concerned all of us, all majorities and also our relationship with Europe itself. I say this to many of my colleagues: the problem today, on the eve of the European elections, is obviously not just to present our ideas or our criticisms about Europe, but also to understand how we intend to strengthen this presence, so that we can change and really affect it. It is easy to come here to say that we will finally be there to do the interests of Italians, in the light of all the sovereign alliances and perhaps the slogan "Italians first of all." We need to have a systematic capacity to interact with Europe and to be protagonists in the legislative process and this in the light of the fact that we think - and I say this above all on our part - that this Europe and the way in which Europe itself operates need radical and profound changes. All the more so, in view of the need to change European policies, especially in recent years, in an incisive way, we need a strong and qualified presence capacity and a great deal of work on the part of Italian parliamentarians and, above all, of the Government, in order to be able to make our contribution. On the substance of this European law, as we have seen, the changes made to the House are not particularly significant, as regards both Article 1 and Article 3 because this European law did not contain any particular issues. As far as Article 6 is concerned, with regard to unjustified geographical blockades, the fact that the House has been given a greater opportunity to protect consumers, including through the designation of the National Centre for the European Consumer Network and the Competition and Market Authority as the bodies responsible for ensuring the same consumers and compliance with the rules, is, in my view, quite important. There are also some issues which I particularly care about and which I would like to mention in the last part of my speech. I am referring first of all to Article 18, which we have again voted on as a result of the House's changes. In the news of Legislative Decree No. 45 of 2014, through the introduction of Article 1-bis to that provision, Article 18 is fundamental because it finally brings provisions on the attribution of responsibility - both primarily and subsidiaryly - for the safety of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. This is because - and this is one of the great problems - we owe a great deal to Europe in the environmental field, also thanks to the infringement procedures that Europe has repeatedly opened up to us in this area. This is one of the specific cases precisely because the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the Italian State No 2018/1021 for the failure to implement Directive 2011/60/Euratom establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. The profiles of responsibility required, outlined in the paragraphs of the article, are very important, because it is finally necessary to give the primary responsibility to the producers of spent fuel or radioactive waste and to the holders of permits for activities. Similarly, the other paragraphs of the article clearly outline - and we hope finally no longer liable to default on the part of our State - the subsidiary responsibilities of the States in the event of the shipment of radioactive materials. This is an issue that should also remind many of us of the serious faults, over the years, due to the lack of responsible management of radioactive waste, although we are one of the countries that should have equipped more than others, having, moreover, made many discussions, reflections, and voted a referendum on nuclear waste, but we are not just talking about this. The other changes in the environmental code - I am thinking of Article 20 - are not very important issues, but they call us once again to respect European standards and directives. In confirming the abstention vote, we hope once again that reflection on our contribution to the formation of European regulations and directives will not only take place every time we examine European law, but that this examination will be an opportunity to implement strongly the sense of participation and active political presence within the European Union: to change it deeply we need to have a strong role and, from this point of view, to put all the political presence that an objective such as this deserves. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u78	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, this debate on European law seems to be a bit of a surreal scene, a bit like the Titanic orchestra that continues to play while the ship sinks and which we wonder whether or not it stunned, while we are going against the disaster. We are faced with the total failure of the European Union. We do not say that, that we are patriots and sovereigns, but all of us, starting with the United Kingdom which has decided to leave the common European home and bears witness to the European Union's approval, which was very high throughout Europe and, in particular, in Italy and today is at the very least historic. That it is a failure is also demonstrated by the fact that there is no one today to defend the European Union. It is not defended by the European People's Party; here is Forza Italia that is part of it and its slogan for the next elections is: In order to change Europe, the Democratic Party, which ruled together with the PPL Europe, which says that Europe needs to be changed, does not defend it, nor does the Party + Europe of Emma Bonino, which says that Europe, as it is, is not good because the European Council has too much power and must be given more power to the European Commission. Of course we do not defend this model of the European Union and therefore, if we were to vote in this Parliament for the European Union to remain as it is, the proposal would take zero votes. Yet, as if this were not true, we continue with total inertia and today we are discussing the transposition into Italian law of European regulations and we decide whether or not pruning should be a waste, whether manure can be put in the fields or should be brought to another place. That's what we're talking about. While we are discussing manure, we have Macron's France intervening in Libya against the internationally recognized Government, supporting Haftar, in an anti-Italian way, to place Total in place of Eni. We are talking about French neocolonial policies in Africa, at the expense of European partners and while this is happening in Libya, we are discussing pruning. That sounds like a real joke. I take this opportunity to say that the Brothers of Italy will not vote against because we will abstain and, indeed, we would like to leave the Chamber because we do not lend ourselves to this sad scene. We want to change everything and that we no longer have to discuss it from here on out. In the first passage into the Senate of European law an amendment to the majority resolution of Brothers of Italy that was revolutionary was approved. He reiterated the supremacy of Italian legislation over European legislation and required the cost-benefit assessment of the introduction of European legislation into Italian law. I do not know how well the majority is aware of this, but it is already a first step. The second step will be with the European elections, when we go to the European Parliament to say that everything about this approach must be changed: no longer a federal model, in which States continue to give sovereignty to a supranational entity, but a confederation of free and sovereign states, in which each State retains its sovereignty and leaves to an entity of organization of States what is best done together, namely foreign policy, the common market and defence policy. Attitudes such as those we have mentioned about Macron's France in Africa are unacceptable. This is the model of the Europe of the Patries. Today this seems a blasphemy; who like us, in the ECR Conservative Group in Europe, defends it as an extremist, starting with the villains of the Visegrád group. I invite everyone, then, to reopen any history book or any university manual, for those who did it, and I remember that the Confederal model was the one clearly wanted, for example, by Churchill and De Gaulle, who I do not seem to recall were two dangerous Nazi fascists. These are the battles that we will bring to the next European Parliament, together with our allies of the Visegrád group who - we claim - are the first allies of Brothers of Italy in the next European Parliament: we have already shared lines together: the first is the defense of the real economy from the financial economy that today dominates in Europe; the second is the defense of the borders, with - sure - the naval blockade off the Libyan coast to prevent the boats from leaving, especially now that we are told that there are 800,000 people ready to leave. Minister Trenta tells us that, since there is war in Libya, those are refugees and not illegal immigrants, demonstrating a legal illiteracy under international law that surprises us: if there is war in Libya, in fact, at the limit the refugees are Libyans, certainly not those who leave, perhaps, from Nigeria. We claim, again, our battle against the global compact for immigration. Since there is already in the European Union who would like, with an artifice, to make it binding for all states, we will do the opposite: all the states of the European Union and the whole European Union outside the global compact. Absolutely taboo theme: defence of our Greek, Roman and Christian identity from the ongoing process of Islamization. We claim it: Europe is first and foremost based on peoples and identities and identities are national, cultural and religious. We are not with those who think that, instead, the solution is a Europe without identity, without history and without future. This is the model that Brothers of Italy will carry forward, because it is time to destroy the euro-monster that today is rooted in Europe and, on its ashes, to build the Europe of the Patries and defend the peoples of Europe. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u81	FADELI (PD). Mr President, we are all aware, from your point of view, of the particular importance of this European bill. In fact, the draft law under consideration directly implements European standards in the Italian legal system and allows, among other things (I would like to stress this, because little is said about this), to overcome the violations of European law which, unfortunately, in this year, with this yellow-green government, have increased, while we, in the last parliamentary term, had done very much indeed. I would like to point out that this result unfortunately leads to 74 infringement procedures this year, including 64 for infringements of EU law and 10 for failure to transpose directives. Anyone who criticises the European Union should be reminded that there is an upward phase of the directives, of what is established in Europe, in which, if you participate, you do the interests of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not a bureaucratic issue, but a central political theme and therefore being able to participate is therefore a fundamental element. I think that the way in which this bill is being discussed and reached is also the failure of the Commission in the management of European policies. It seems normal, but it is not normal that in the last year there has been little presence of our ministers at the European tables, starting with the former Minister Savona, who has shone for total absence in the European seats. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u82	Forgive me for a moment, Senator Fedeli. I would like to address my fellow Members from Forza Italia because they have exceeded the noise limit: I must call you back.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u83	FADELI (PD). I would also like to say to the Minister of the Interior, who never believes that he is present at the European tables, that it is precisely at European level that the policies for the governance of migratory flows and perhaps also the policies of the relationship with North Africa and the issues of Libya that are particularly significant for our country. I would like to stress that there is an incredible short-sightedness in the face of this. I insist on saying that there is a short-sighted policy of the place and the seats of European participation to determine the policies useful to our country. It seems to me necessary to reiterate that Italy's presence at the European tables means having the interests of our country at heart. But the government continues to face its relationship with the European institutions only as if Europe were an opponent to challenge and fight and not a place where to determine the policies useful for our country. This brings, of course, to the consequence that we cannot determine what continues to be a fundamental theme for our country. Europe is the place where we must face today's challenges on growth, sustainability, positive environmental impacts, interconnections, the necessary policies to increase research and development and look exactly at the challenges of the future, as Senator Ginetti also said in her speech, which are the fundamental theme not to isolate Italy in Europe and not to isolate Europe, through our behaviour, within the global challenges. European law is therefore, from our point of view, an important appointment, because from it also pass the innovations that can bring a positive future to people: women, young people, families, businesses and public bodies of our country. I am thinking, for example, of the recognition of professional qualifications, of incentives for biomass, biogas and biogas plants, from which thousands of jobs arise; of the identification of the competent authority for in vitro medical and diagnostic devices; I am thinking above all of the certainty and speed of payments to companies operating public works for local and central administrations; I am thinking of the contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The European bill actually shows that thanks to Europe, its institutions can truly defend, help and support national interests. Equally essential would be the other bill, the law of the European delegation, which has been inexplicably in the Commission for months, without being able to make a very minimal step forward in the European Union's political Commission: this is also a symbol, from my point of view, of the obvious carelessness with which this majority and the Government feel that they can treat the European Union as if it were anything else from us, far from us. Instead, European law, like the European delegation law, are part of important and final dossiers of a process that starts from afar and in which Parliament is involved, on several occasions, in the expression of an opinion on subsidiarity and proportionality also - I insist on this - in the ascending phase, that is, the incorporation into national law of European legislation. For this reason, what we consider is not only the content of this bill, but also a comprehensive political assessment, involving the Government and its majority, also in the way in which we are presented here with the bill. It is useful to point out how we get to vote in this House at the third reading of this draft European law - I would like to emphasise this - in conjunction with the examination of the DEF, as happened at first reading. It was then in the middle of the budget session. It would be worth remembering that, in December, the lack of constructive dialogue, in particular with the European Commission, led to unprecedented levels of confrontation in the past, with the rejection of the draft budget law, which forced the Italian Executive to amend the text in extremis in order to avoid the opening of the infringement procedure for excessive debt. A phase of such conflict that has fueled mistrust and a climate of deep uncertainty in our country: a climate that is unfortunately not improved today. In the Country Report of 2019, the European Commission reiterated strong concerns about the situation in Italy, which presents excessive economic imbalances which, together with high debt, continued low productivity and low support for investment and labour, involve risks of major importance, as well as national, including transnational risks. It is an objective risk of contagion and difficulty in relations with European countries. Today, as then, in the examination of this DEF, Italy objectively represents the weak link of Europe and every measure introduced since then, despite the roboating announcements of the Executive, has a negative impact on deficit, public debt and potential for economic growth of the Country. Even today, after months, what should have been a political problem faced and overcome (I am thinking of Brexit, which remains on the table), is dealt with by a decree-law that tries to buffer an emergency, that is the possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without an agreement. This would create, not only for Europe, but also for Italy and the United Kingdom itself, unspeakable difficulties, not only economic ones. This is the result of when you think of ruling a country by looking at the European Union, Europe and its institutions exactly as enemies, rather than as places where you can build useful, coordinated and harmonised policies in the interests of our citizens. Today, as then, as a Democratic Party, we will abstain in the final vote, with the reasons that I have tried to give in part in this speech and which Mr Ginetti gave earlier, precisely in order to redefine the ambiguity, the delay, the contradiction that the Italian Government has and continues to have with regard to European policies, the European institutional fora, the necessary confrontation of relations with other Community countries. As has been said, the Government would have had a simple task: to adapt with speed, appropriateness and presence, precisely in order to best share it, our order to European norms, which, moreover, are shared in that forum, which will unfortunately continue, with this Government, to be something far away and harmful to our country, if we do not choose together to innovate European policies. But in order to innovate, there must be and not continue to think of delegitimizing European fora, European policies and our possible allies in Europe. This applies to migration policies, which applies to growth policies. That is why, despite what I have said, we will abstain and not vote against this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u86	BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, illustrious colleagues, representatives of the Government, I had a moment of perplexity and I turned to some of my colleagues more experienced than myself and also to the Government, to ask whether the European law we are talking about and which we are approving on this day is the European law of an imaginary Europe, which I have heard described in this House from several speeches, or whether it is European law 2018, which was supposed to remedy the seventy-four infringement procedures opened by the European Union against our country. And that is what this is all about. There is no infringement procedure for excessive deficits, nor because Ministers do not go to Europe: there were 74 infringement procedures accumulated by previous governments in the years before 2018, which in this European law had to be healed. Therefore, everything I have heard in this House today in the explanations of vote, but also in the speeches in general debate, we are obliged to write it down and send it directly to those who ruled in previous years, feeding 74 infringement procedures against our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Indeed, the adoption of this European law - which I think, without much more rhetoric, we can quickly approve, finally finally finally, since we are at the third reading and today we should only deal with the parts that the House has decided to amend - will allow us to go down from 74 infringement procedures to 52, because in the meantime many have failed. We are not here to explain why and how Europe opens infringement procedures and then closes them, depending on certain procedures that it carries out and that have obviously seen us acquitted. It is a bit like when the Commissioner for free competition decided that the case of Italian banks was an infringement procedure and that state aid - well used by many other countries [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - Italy could not use them and then the European Court of Justice did justice to this too. Good thing we didn't find it between these infringement procedures. On the other hand, we have tried to remedy what we have found here, so that European law in our examination - as you know well and as we have already seen in previous readings - affects a great many subjects, such as the recognition of professional qualifications, the professions of business agents, tobacco sales, commercial transactions, the use of the term 'cook', European arrest, examiners with regard to driving licences, airport charges, the transport of goods free of duty, greenhouse gas emissions, the manufacture of medicines, electrical equipment and, take good care, even the shavings and prunings of jasmines on our terraces. These are the issues that lie within this European law, a European law that, both in the ascending and the descending stages, as has already been mentioned, deals with a lot of things except the emergencies of Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Emergencies, in fact, as the previous speakers reminded me well before, and the policies dedicated to them, such as the waves of migration that have all flowed into our country, because the other countries of the European Union have closed their borders, have never been dear to the attention of the European Union, leaving our country to face and resolve, from time to time, this type of tragedy. Migration policies are one of the examples, perhaps the most important, of course what we care most about, because every time something moves on the chessboard of the Mediterranean, we know that - it turns, it turns - who pays the price we are Italians. And so it is fine, even if it is part of the European Union, France, when it sends its military to train the mercenaries of General Haftar, because this leads to a coup, a coup d'état, which - as reminded us by the only authority recognized by the United Nations and by all the international bodies - heard, will probably pour in our country 800,000 of those whom we call refugees. However, we say that, until Europe takes care of it, Italy deals with it for the part that concerns it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] And it must be remembered to all that this time it will not end as with previous governments. We will not do what previous governments have done, dumping on the outskirts of our country a human tragedy of biblical proportions, which no State can bear, much less ours. Mr President, a European Union which is incapable of responding to the needs of its citizens has already seen it and we do not need to uncomfortable the sovereignism called for by many parties; it would be sufficient for the European Union to apply its fundamental principle of subsidiarity, in order to enable the Member States to resolve the issues that the States or local authorities can address and devote themselves to major issues. Instead, the opposite happens. That is why I have not seen my colleagues described before by my colleague Mr Ginetti in the examination of the draft European law before; I have seen many colleagues in the Commission also dealing with small nuances, such as the equalization of qualifications between Italian students and those of other countries of the European Union. It is peaceful that in going to carry out a profession in Italy as in another country our degree is worth as much as that of others; instead we are not happy that our children must absolutely be able to produce professional surreptitious evidence of training and we have discussed it for a long time. In the same way, we have also discussed, in this draft European law, how it is all the more right that a convention such as that of Marrakesh, which protects blind people, should be transposed as soon as possible by all states, including our own. We have been able to do a great deal of work on the issues that the draft European law has given us and we have done so with the aim of resolving those infringements. Well, at the end of this debate and of these explanations of vote I can say with great serenity - I do not know if others can do so too - that this work we have done with diligence and with great honesty, in defending the interests of the European Union, without trampling the interests of the Italians. This comforts us and makes us declare our vote in favour, but above all the fact that, instead of filling our mouths with infringement procedures, we have brought them from 74 to 52. Being better than that was impossible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u89	Masini (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fluctuat nec mergitur: it is beaten by waves, but it does not sink. This is the motto of the city of Paris, if anyone does not know, and with this I would like to begin my speech in this House today, expressing a thought of affection and support to the French friends and colleagues of the French Senate who a few days ago hosted some members of the 14th Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Paragon]] France and Italy are founding and founding countries of this Europe, certainly so expensive and perhaps a bit misplaced. Today we are looking at a number of instruments (we could call them surgical instruments) with which this very Europe is managed as European law, a very important instrument that allows us to understand how far our order has come in complying with EU principles in compliance with EU legislation. Thanks to our delegations, even Italy first builds and then said. As Mrs Fedeli also said, in fact, it is first built and then it is said. This is one of the fundamental points of criticism that we stress regarding the attitude of our country and our bodies in the European Union. As we all know, in fact, a Community reference legislation first has an ascending phase and then a descendant and we as a country system are seriously absent in the ascending phase. We are not able to affect what we would like, we are not aware of what would be necessary at the most important time, the time when the rule is being built, whether it is a regulation or a directive, therefore a direct implementation or with the need to be transposed. When we examine European law, we deal with a summation of extremely different issues, but they are not simply an omnibus regulation, a mixture of elements that have little to do with one or the other, but they are instead those moments that allow our country system to succeed emotionally in adapting to the regulatory framework of reference. And this is where we are strongly beginning to emphasize some problems. It must be remembered that the procedures pending for our country are still very substantial: there are more than seventy, as has already been mentioned, whether they are from the previous Government or not, so it can only be emphasized that the effort made by the Executive, in our opinion, is not sufficient: it is not enough to reduce the litigation adequately; it is not enough to ensure that we, the founding country, titled, and also the holder of absolute importance in relation to the European Union, cannot be able to give adequate implementation to the regulations to which we are bound, and to which we should, as far as the process of operation is concerned, participate actively. Despite the fact that we all know that at the moment the European Union has great criticalities - it is certain - we believe, as Forza Italia and also as Italian citizens, that we must continue to be strongly in favour of Europe; that Europe that we have contributed in a very important way to build, a Europe whose advantages are enormous and those of which we have all benefited, of which we are certain and of which we are aware; a Europe that if it had not been there would not have allowed us seventy years of peace that we take too often for granted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Of course, we are also convinced that, unfortunately, today's Europe does not fully respond to the ideal Europe of our founding fathers; that it is a Europe often perceived as distant, distant, soulless, characterized by excesses of bureaucracy and austerity policies, rigid on the accounts, and based on algorithms distant from everyday life. Minister Salvini - and not only him, but many in the government - said that he would go to Europe to ask for and obtain changes to the parameters and their greater flexibility. Well, surely it is a right initiative, but I would like to remind you, on the basis of a small domestic economy, that you cannot spend what you do not have in your portfolio, in debt further, among other things, for deficit policies, current spending, that do not create development and do not allow the country system that fiscal shock we would need. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So it makes no sense to change the parameters for policies that will prove to be a hole in the water, because this will be the judgment that Europe will give us on 9 May, ladies and gentlemen; it is a simple prediction, it is not that I do the horoscope: too much debt, no growth, slowing down the economy, rising unemployment. We really need adequate measures in favour of activities that will allow the European Union to return instead to be a Europe that starts again, that grows, that gives confidence to its citizens and that gives a perspective to feel proud to be European, because we must be proud to feel European. A Europe that is not seen by its citizens as an obstacle to its own well-being and development, but as a support, a help to improve this very well-being. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the leitmotif of Forza Italia and of the policy that we want to bring to Europe. With Europe we must interact from a strong and credible country, not with methods that seem to be a big voice and then turn out to be mere whispers, but counterproductive, useless, provocative and superfluous. We are facing too important challenges to continue to look at polls, consensus, a continuous election campaign, rather than for the good of the country, that is, what we are all called to do here. The time for games is over; we go back to the Chamber, we go back on board, to things of common sense. We are faced with the challenge of Brexit and what this exit will entail above all on the budget of the CAP, which is fundamental for the economy of Italy, which on agriculture bases much of its economy. We have the challenge of China, the management of a delicate relational relationship that cannot be dealt with alone putting at risk our sovereignty, but that instead must be managed - because no one calls into question that our country must strengthen the exchange with China - with prudence and appropriate assessments. If anything, we should be the glue between the culture of the North and the South of our continent and never lose sight of our natural and historical connotation of alliances, especially if we risk losing them for the results of laughable trade agreements. We face a painful, difficult and inevitable challenge of migratory flows. The Libyan issue is very open, with likely new flows to be managed, which they will certainly not be able, nor will they have to see us alone to face this new emergency. Not alone, not isolated, though. So, yes, it is necessary to revise the Dublin Treaty in the light of the different needs that have developed since its early days, as well as to fight for the obligatory relocations. But of course it is not good for our country to open up to sovereignisms in total competition with our interests, undermining the only sovereignism that can make sense, the European one, as our President Silvio Berlusconi says, to which we wish to return to Europe with his authoritative voice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The draft law under consideration has lost many opportunities to make improvements with concrete actions in matters which were subject to observation and evaluation. I mean, it's once again a missed and badly exploited opportunity. It is, once again, a policy without vision and humility, with which one tries to mask one's lack of capacity for analysis and to affect, always giving the blame to someone else, or using the same method that you use within the Government when the Executive creaks. From this creak we keep ourselves out and we are far away, because in Europe we need a clear voice and a capacity for lucid analysis, which we have always known how to have. For all this, all too good, we will refrain from voting on the draft law under consideration, hoping that both the creakers and the government's too many tweets will soon end and we will return to a policy of doing things. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u92	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are meeting to give final implementation and to proceed with the final vote on this measure, which allows our country to avoid running into infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission or by the result of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is a legislation that has a very important legislative importance and priority for our country. In fact, European law, together with the law of European delegation, is one of the two instruments laid down by Law No 234 of 24 December 2012, in order to adjust the national law periodically to that of the European Union. This adaptation concerns provisions repealing or amending existing state laws contrary to the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union, as well as provisions necessary to implement or ensure the application of acts of the European Union and provisions necessary to implement the international treaties concluded in the framework of the European Union's external relations. The provisions contained in the standard, therefore, amend or supplement the rules in force in national law in order to adapt their content to European law and to deal with the aforementioned infringement procedures, consisting, as you know, of rules of a heterogeneous nature that intervene in very different fields. The areas covered by the draft law are the free movement of persons, services and goods, justice and security, transport, taxation, customs, state aid, copyright and the protection of human health and the environment. The heterogeneity and even conceptual diversification of the topics dealt with make it an atypical norm, which has abnormal legal characteristics, as all-inclusive of regulatory cases. However, its particular nature does not diminish its overall value or its indispensable regulatory necessity. The draft law under consideration, which was dismissed by the Government on 6 September 2018 and approved at first reading by the Senate on 5 December, with changes compared to the first government version, was then voted in the other branch of Parliament on 12 March. As a result of the amendments and additions made at first and second readings, respectively by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, the text now consists of 22 articles dealing with six infringement procedures and four EU-Pilot cases. In addition, two cases of illegal state aid are resolved, two directives are implemented which have already expired, national law is adapted to five European regulations and an international agreement on the European arrest warrant and delivery procedures between Member States is implemented. The peculiar aspect of the bill that is being discussed and which I intend to make clear in the short time that is granted to me because it is interesting to pay attention to it is that many of these regulatory norms bring within themselves a social vision of the problems in order to rebalance the conditions of social inequality that deserve every possible protection and any intervention of a supportive and altruistic kind desirable. Of particular importance, for example, from the point of view of civic solidarity, is, in my view, the implementation of Directive 1564/2017, contained in Article 15 of the draft law under consideration, which aims to ensure that blind people, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in reading printed texts, have access to books and other types of publications, including music scores. This provision has a clear facilitator and facilitator character in favour of people with special educational needs. Moreover, the implementation of Directive 1572/2017 contained in Article 16 of the draft law, today at the vote of the Assembly, which regulates the good manufacturing practices of medicinal products for human use, is substantially innovative. This Directive requires, for medicinal products imported from abroad, as well as for experimental medicinal products, compliance with the principles and guidelines laid down on national territory for the production of medicinal products for human use, in order to ensure compliance of operations with good manufacturing practice and the full implementation of the strictest and most efficient pharmaceutical quality assurance system. I will not extend any further on the mere listing of the many and appreciable regulatory interventions. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the human side of the activities which are the basis of the drafting of this law, as far as we are concerned, of parliamentary competence. I am referring to the activities of the Commission which I am honoured to be a member of. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the human side, which is often overlooked, not highlighted or uncontested, when it comes to regulations that adapt disciplines, laws that sank other laws, regulatory processes that stop other sanctioning procedures. That is why I want to publicly commend the Commission' s work on European policies and on all its components for its efforts and for the sense of responsibility expressed in its institutional role and functions, throughout the whole process that has affected it, until today' s vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Commission for European Policies carries out its tasks with the utmost diligence, expertise and effectiveness, as well as with the noblest ethical intentions, and that is why I thank, first of all, my colleagues in the opposition, who do their legitimate duty in full respect of the political role of the parties involved. I thank our colleagues of majority, always loyal and ready to provide us with their skillful support, the colleagues of the Movement, extraordinary comrades of arms and I thank, finally, the President for the competence and impartiality with which he directs the work. We came to the final vote after a long and hard work of legislative mediation and after a series of certain political assessments that place at the center of the focus only and exclusively the interests of Italian citizens and their social needs. This legislation goes in the right direction: it ensures that the intervention, sometimes too invasive in Europe in the past, is therefore aimed at protecting and safeguarding the collective needs of the Italian people, bearing in mind the needs of its specific, minority and sectoral social components and their daily problems. It is only this that the majority really has in the heart and in the head: to give Europe back the great weight it deserves in the decision-making, executive and normative process of its member countries, but always and in any case contesting the respect for territorial and social specificities. Only by combining these two bodies and these two forces, the centralist and the decision-making one and the peripheral and minority one, will it be possible to fully build the Europe that the European citizens truly desire. This is the new paradigm that the Movimento 5 Stars like and which we intend to carry forward with ever greater determination: to do everything possible to ensure that ordinary citizens and no longer the oligarchies of power return to the centre of the political choices of the Union. We are close to the election campaign for the European elections, so it would be easy and obvious for me to use the mechanisms of rhetoric and to say that we do not like this Europe as it is and that it should be changed. I will not do that, because we have all understood it and there is no point in repeating it in this context. What I want to reiterate is that we want a Europe that can act, propose, intervene to defend the weakest, the last, those who have less protection and those who have remained behind. The measure in question follows this wish and this political evocation and that is why, on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u94	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u95	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I have asked for dissent from the Group because I have to say that, honestly, the continuous call in this House to infringement procedures left by previous legislators and governments is a sneaky way - if we are to say so - of letting absolutely false things be understood. I would like to quote some data to support this statement. At the beginning of the last legislature, the infringement procedures opened were 104 and were already reduced compared to 136 that had found the Monti Government, after a Government supported by Lega and Forza Italia. The procedures were reduced to 59 in June 2018, and increased to 72 at the end of January this year. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , in the balance between the open and the closed ones. I think that this way of saying, of letting people think and of constantly letting them understand absolutely false things belongs to you, but I do not think it is acceptable. Therefore, in disagreement with the Group, I will vote against it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u98	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I speak only to announce that the Brothers of Italy Group will not participate in the vote, because we consider this a farce law, offensive to the Parliament of a sovereign State, which is constantly forced to suffer infringement procedures and brainy and absurd Community directives, which are certainly generated in the interests of few and not the Italians. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator, because the explanation of vote for your Group has already been made by Senator Fazzolari. CIRIANI (FdI). I would simply like to say that our Group will not vote and will leave the Chamber. (The Senators of the Group) [[FdI abandons the hemicycle.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u99	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u102	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting because I would like to point out what is happening in my region. This is an issue that I do not want to touch from the point of view of the acts and actions that are being carried out by the judiciary. However, I want to talk about it because the people of Umbria are extremely shaken at this moment and it is a people who have discovered with shock what has always been known and that has always been the object of so many battles. I must say that there may have been generations who fought these battles; but the things reported in the press are still shocking. It is especially shocking (because it has filmed everywhere) to see depicted black on white, in ordinances and measures, a system according to which access to public health competitions was in essence cast and above all the result of an agreement of character and of a political nature. I'd like to talk about it because I think it's right, at a time like this, to send some messages. A message that I care about is that what happened must never, however, make our children, the people who need to work and the people who have been in front of a wall so many times that there is no road through which the results can be achieved with merit. This is an idea that I think is right to make transit, at least to recover from the shock of what you have seen and what you have read. It is also right to think that the people who work within the health structures, beyond the individual cases that may or may not be, are above all the events related or connected to the exercise of political power, because of course we are talking about situations where people go to care (we pay taxes to have public health coverage). From this point of view, I believe that it is right to protect in perspective those who work every day, always and in any case, in the interests of our patients and to calm down the structure and all those who do this job for the people who are ill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must invite you to conclude, Senator Modena. MODENA (FI-BP). I'm done. The third message is that in these days it is as if the lives of people who for years have fought against a system they were talking about, but who had never really been seen in action. I hope that young people, young people, new people and people who want to make them can cancel this type of system and give back an air of alternation and freedom to the region that I have the honour to represent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u105	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just now we commemorated the poor Major Marshal of the Carabinieri Vincenzo Carlo Di Gennaro, who fell in Cagnano Varano in the performance of his duty. His death was an absurd - as he was reminded - that shocked us and left us really dismayed. Even more so are the family members and those who have known him as a man and as an irreproachable and appreciated policeman. In this respect, I should really like to make a personal note: I am sorry that I was unable to attend this afternoon's funeral because of the work of this House and the Commission. His wasn't a mafia murder, but he's the son of a mafia mentality. The killer probably considered it unbearable yet another control by which the valiant Carabinieri of Cagnano were about to subject him, and probably considered it unbearable that the State behaved as a State, and wanted to enforce the law by means of the Forces of Order. In the last few months, the country is making a great effort to raise the level of the fight against crime and to control and guard the territory. In fact, the crime prevention department in San Severo has been established and the squadron has been created that has been carried by the hunters of Puglia, stationed in the military air base of Amendola, near Foggia. The results have not been expected and the arrests of the last few months demonstrate this, thanks also to the extraordinary work of the magistrates and the Forces of the Order. Unfortunately, however, the situation is still very serious and in the whole Province there is a real national emergency, which can no longer be ignored and which needs further and urgent legislative and governmental interventions. In this regard, I hope that shortly Minister Salvini will reply to the question 4-01214 of 6 February 2019, at my first signature, with which we asked for an increase in the number of men and women of the Forces of Order in the Province of Foggia and the establishment of a dislocated operational section of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate. Likewise, I hope that shortly Minister Bonafede will respond to Question 4-00984 of 6 December 2018, always at my first signature, with which we asked - in accordance with what the CSM resolved in the resolution of 18 October 2017 - for the revisiting of the organizational models of the DDA of Bari, favouring and encouraging the system of the application of proxy substitutes of the ordinary proxy of Foggia to the DDA, considering that, among other things, with the applications or co-assignments, you can contribute to the formation of professionalism also in view of the successive turnovers in the district direction anti-mafia. Finally, I hope that shortly the draft law n. 758 can be incardinated and approved, at my first signature, which advocates, among other things, the establishment in Foggia of a section of the Anti-Mafia District Direction, which would allow magistrates and Forces of the order to work to the best of their possibilities and to concentrate on those mafia comrades considered at the moment the most dangerous in Italy - and are not my words but the national prosecutor anti-Mafia - and which operate in a vast and difficult to control territory, even for orographic reasons. In addition, the situation at the Foggia court is dramatic in relation to the organic plant. In fact, in proxy practically nobody wants to go; just think that the last seven out of eight magistrates assigned there were MOT, that is ordinary magistrates in internship, and, generally, after the three years, ask for the assignment to another seat because the workload, the number of trials to follow is very high, practically unsustainable. At present there are about 12,000 pending trials and unfortunately many of them are prescribed, even those relating to crimes that give rise to particular social alarm. The obvious consequence is that the alleged guilty person is not judged, which increases even more the sense of resignation and mistrust of the citizens who, therefore, increasingly renounce to denounce. This adds illegality to illegality. In conclusion, I invite the Ministers mentioned to address the situation in the Province of Foggia as a matter of urgency and finally to equip the territory with personnel, means and principals of legality and justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u108	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, when we grow up, we will reopen Auschwitz and we will put you all in the crematoria, Jewish ovens of (...).............................................................................. This terrible phrase was uttered by some students in Ferrara a week ago, in addressing their fellow Jewish religionist by taking him by the neck in the changing rooms of the gym. This serious act of bullying against an anti-Semitic background and this regurgitation of racism amplified by the same social are truly incredible and terrifying acts. Unfortunately, there is an awareness of the unawareness of history. These guys may not even know what they said, but I'm very worried and sorry about what happened. In a middle school with such a low age, such terms can be used. I'm worried not only about the bullied child, but also about the children who bullied. This is a serious problem. There is a general climate of cultural embarrassment and in society we breathe these feelings of hatred. School intervention can no longer limit these excesses. Social media then annihilate the modesty of everything that happens; they have customsed a language made of violence and racism that can no longer bring anything good and these are the acts that occur. There is a need for prevention work in schools, but also for families to be intercepted. Article 3 of our beautiful Constitution, so it was drawn by our constituent Fathers, tells us - and I must repeat - that all citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law without distinction of sex, race, language and religion, political opinions and personal and social conditions. This episode must not be considered a girl in itself, but a serious alarm bell that we must all seize in order to counter it with responsibility and recover a deficit of shared education. I pray to Minister Bussetti that, instead of removing the trace of history, he will insert more contemporary history into the programs so that there is more awareness of what happened only eighty years ago with racial laws. Listen to us, please! The kids need help. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u111	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 28 March, at around 1 p.m., at the border police offices at Leonardo da Vinci Airport, Agent Giuseppe Filosa managed to secure a man who tried to commit suicide. This is a heroic act of a bourgeois police officer who saved a human life. I would like to express my thanks to Giuseppe Filosa and all the agents of the Border State Police at Fiumicino Airport, to all the Forces of Order, who every day in such an important airport perform the simple duty of assisting passengers, workers, but above all people in difficulty. At the airport there are a lot of people who live uncomfortable and have taken Leonardo Da Vinci airport as their home. These people are assisted not only by employees, but also by police officers. My thanks go to them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-108.ana.u113	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 April, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.49.
