ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document IV-a, No 1, which contains: "Report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorisation to proceed to trial, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore, for the offence referred to in Article 605, paragraphs one, second, number 2, and third, of the penal code (sequestration of aggravated person), transmitted by the Attorney General of the Republic to the Tribunal of Catania on 23 January 2019."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u4	Mr President, the issue we are discussing today is a disturbing precedent. For the first time, a court of ministers asks Parliament for permission to prosecute a Minister of the Interior who, by abusing his powers and as a result of being a public officer in the performance of his duties, has deprived 177 persons of liberty, some of whom are of minor age, and deliberately violated national norms and international conventions. It never happened. A minister performs his duties by swearing on the Constitution, swearing to be faithful to the Constitution and its laws, not on a government contract and, in the performance of his duties, he cannot do what he wants. There is no license to go beyond the law. Let's go back to the Diciotti case and what happened in those days. There's a rescue from the Coast Guard. The Diciotti ship is a coastal guard ship to all intents and purposes, therefore a military ship, which is part of the Italian Navy through its specific body of the Coast Guard. It is to all intents and purposes on Italian soil and is an Italian military ship. I remember that the ships of the Coast Guard, however technological, are not great, therefore 177 people are a remarkable cargo. After the rescue of these people, the ship is forced for days and days to stay offshore, not being able to dock in port. A Coast Guard ship led by officers of the Coast Guard Navy in distress, because they are tried people, who are afraid because it can be difficult to maintain public order anyway, because there is also a health situation that can be complicated. All this for days and days: direct TV, great media coverage. A humiliating search among the various European countries begins by inviting them to take a few dozen migrants. Finally, the ship can return to port. But why? Why on this case, on the case of yesterday - which then ended - of the Ionian Seaship, on the issue of the Sea Watch there is this need to keep out of the ports dozens of desperate people? This media coverage serves to show that we are strong, that we have tense muscles and show a bad face compared to people who are desperate at the time. We are talking about a few dozen people, and this is because we want to show that we have solved the problems when in reality the problems of immigration management are still all on the plate. But let's move on. After this media coverage, Mr Salvini receives the guarantee notice; if I remember correctly, in a live Facebook the Minister exposes him and says that he is proud of what he has done and that therefore he will certainly not escape because his behavior is reason for his action and love for Italy, love for the Italian people; it is an answer to all those who voted for him. He cites national security. You see, colleagues, national security is an important issue. When it comes to national security, this is an extremely important issue which certainly also concerns the tasks of the Minister of the Interior and is very much concerned with the functions of the Minister of Defence. Well, since I have been acting as Minister of Defence, I wonder what national security was at stake in the face of 177 migrants rescued by the Italian Coast Guard. After the direct Facebook, however, an important minister of this government, as well as eminent lawyer, lawyer Bongiorno, explains to Minister Salvini that in reality the charges are not so light: we talk about kidnapping and therefore the trial can be complicated. So then, immediately, there are no more direct Facebook; no more waving the warranty notices and there is a call to co-responsibility of the other government representatives: "It's not just me, there's Minister Toninelli, President Conte, Vice Premier Di Maio." In fact, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which is required to be authorized to proceed, arrives not only the memory of Salvini but also the statements of President Conte and Minister Toninelli: it is not a "stop us all" but a "save us all." In the name of what? The law? Laws? Law school? About what? No. Simply the fact that they - they say - act in the name of 60 million Italians; this is repeated as a mantra (it is not understood well why all Italians must recognize themselves in this Government): to act in the name of the Italian people. Here we are witnessing one of those twists on these themes that are recently being followed by the Movimento 5 Stars. Let us remember that the 5 Star Movement in the last legislature, even if a warning of guarantee came to anyone who had political responsibility - of the other parties - immediately called for resignation. The warranty notice was enough. In this case, instead, what are you asking? Initially the Movimento 5 Stars, with Di Battista, with Di Maio, says it would be good to get tried: they would have to be tried. Then it changes and, with not much transparency, the question is asked on the platform Rousseau whose outcome is that you have to answer no, and at that point all the Movimento 5 Stars stand - even with some people who have some difficulty in finding themselves in that position - to vote no to the authorization to proceed, demonstrating that the glue of the Government, or better of the armchair on which you are sitting when you are in the government, becomes stronger than what was an almost identity flag, judicialist, that I do not share but that previously had always been agitated. Minister Salvini, you also mentioned Article 52 of the Constitution: the defence of the Homeland as the sacred duty of the citizen. You mentioned this important article, which is in the heart not only of the citizens, but of all the bodies of the State that must defend the Homeland, in order to create a safe conduct compared to the fact that it was required to be able to proceed with it in order to verify its action. And he mentioned it - I repeat - in front of 177 exhausted people who would be a danger to our country. I understand, his message wanted to be: we must seal the waters of Italy to those who arrive without being invited, to those who come out of the rules. However, the phenomenon is so epochal and so complicated that a media scene like the one we saw with Diciotti, but also with the Sea Watch and then more recently, it does not help to solve the problem, because on the other side there are failures; there are thousands of ghost landings, of which you do not speak; there are returns that go with the dropper; there are agreements with other African countries that have not been made. Senator Pinotti, finish your speech. Mr Pinotti (PD). There are, for example, meetings in Brussels, where we are going to discuss the Treaty of Dublin, border control and the operation of the Coast Guard. Meetings you're not going to. Finally, as the President invited me to do. This precedent is actually a serious vulnus for our democracy. I say to all those who are in this House, of whatever political side they are, that this is not a matter of condemning, because it is not our job; it is a matter of putting the Ministers in a position to be, like everyone else, equal before the law. There are rules, there is a court of ministers. This authorisation to proceed must be given. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u5	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u6	Mr President, I shall use less minutes than the ten that I have been allowed to do, because it seems to me that the matter is quite simple. Although it may not yet be clear in this debate that we are not discussing the government's immigration policy today: a policy which I do not share, but which is fully legitimate. Today we are not discussing the collegial responsibility of the Government, which has no reference to the decision we must take. We do not even discuss guaranteeing, an important and fundamental element; but it has nothing to do with guaranteeing. We must answer two substantive questions: the constitutionally relevant interest of the State and the pre-eminent public interest. Yesterday, Senator Pillon said that the preeminent public interest was and is traceable in relation to the immigration law, because not everyone can enter indiscriminately in our country. It is an argument that does not stand, because everyone knows that, when those 177 people are on the ship Diciotti (military ship of the Italian State), they are on Italian soil. So that argument isn't there. The subject is this: we must answer if there is the constitutionally relevant interest of the State and the pre-eminent public interest. The answer is that there isn't. I would like to highlight one point in relation to the majority report: I found it singular that the administration no longer works by act, but that it can be operated through a phone call or an indication. See that this is a very relevant issue. I didn't find any answers as to why the POS arrived so late, yet it was a decision that had been made. We cannot understand, in essence, what the arguments are. Was there a security problem for our country? I don't think anyone can say that. It can be said that it was politically thought and thought that landings should be stopped, but that is another issue. I'd like you to think about one point. I should like to leave out the fact that the vice-president had made a very strong statement - as the vice-president always says, one must believe his words - that he would be very happy to submit to the trial, but let's forget it. The problem that interests me is essentially what Senator Grasso, in the minority report, has identified in a very timely way: it is the precedent that we risk opening up here. I'd like you to think about that. I am well aware of the political reason why the whole majority, including the 5 Star Movement, beyond the issue of the platform, has decided how it has decided. However, I would like to appeal to all colleagues to reason on one point once again. This vote opens a precedent on which I invite you to reflect. I have heard of the primacy of politics, of the fact that, in relation to an electoral programme, in which it was written to block ports and to block landings, then it is right to intervene. No colleagues, beware, that is not so, because democracy is made up of balances: if you want to block ports and decide to do so, you come to the classrooms, you change the laws and then respecting the laws you will have taken the decision you thought appropriate, but you change the law. We are essentially saying that a political choice prevails over fundamental constitutional rights such as the freedom of persons. We're making this argument. Attention, there is today and there is tomorrow, I would not want this precedent to open up a question. I want to be very clear on this point: for me - I've always thought of it on other occasions and I repeat it today with force - the confrontation and the political confrontation are always legitimate. Salvini is a political leader, the Vice President of the Council: for me it must be defeated politically and only politically. There can be no instrument of justice for a political battle. But the opposite is also valid: there can be no political reason that prevails over laws and the Constitution. This is a very serious problem, on which I ask you to reflect. We're not judging whether the vice-premier is guilty or not. It's up to the courts, it's up to the judge to answer this, not us. It would be absolutely useful, however, to prevent a dangerous precedent from opening up, which, in line with what has been said, would lead to this process. I do not want to take up the statements of principle made by my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement in their history of affirmation in this country, namely that all citizens are equal and have the same right: that is not what I am interested in right now. I do not pose problems of consistency with what has been said, with what you have done, with the behavior that you have had compared to others that have been found in complex judicial events. I ask you whether you really think that, in the name of a political alliance, we can open that precedent which concerns all of us and does not concern you. This is a demonstration of something that I have already had the opportunity to emphasize: "in the name of the people" says the Constitution, but the people through their representations. When someone speaks in the name of all the people, of all the 60 million Italians, for me, in the experience of history, it is always a huge problem, which concerns the quality of democracy. Finally, allow me to make one final point. Senator Pillon said: we fight the mercenaries, the delinquents who speculate on people's lives. Great.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u7	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u8	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I'm done, Mr. President. But the dignity of those people and their quality are certainly not safeguarded by the dramatic event that all the world's observers put before us, which is the tragedy of the fields, public and private, in Libya: we will not safeguard them that way. The dignity of those people - at least we will agree on that - applies to traffickers, as well as to those camps in Libya. Let us bear this in mind, because the dignity of people is not exchanged for anything. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u9	I do not have the habit of turning off the microphone, but I would ask you to keep to the times, because at 1 p.m. we have to finish and everyone is passing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u11	Mr President, I do not hide a certain embarrassment in intervening on such a delicate matter, given the role I had in the last parliamentary term, not only as President of Giunta, but also as rapporteur. We have dealt with several important cases of requests for permission to proceed for ministerial crimes; I remember, in particular, those of Senator Tremonti and the late Senator Matteoli. In any case, it is precisely for this reason that I have to take the floor, although briefly, leaving to others in my Group, in particular those members of Junta who have been able to better consult the acts transmitted by the judiciary, the task of presenting them with more widespread arguments. I shall confine myself to a few essential points, although I am well aware that what I will say will not change the decision of the majority, which has the sole purpose of keeping the Government alive, and will not help to change the mind of even those who have been propaganda change for a long time and, with it, the suggestive idea that there would no longer be any immunity, no more privileges for anyone, senators and honourablemen included. In this case, it is in fact the affirmation of a privilege that one wants to arrive at: a privilege to which, first, Minister Salvini has declared that he wants to withdraw, except then to rethink himself in front of the necessity to preserve the power, ending so only with the escape to the justice and the trial, through the support of a liar vote of the platform Rousseau and, even worse, of the most recent public calls of the heads of the 5 Stars - unacceptable both in the tone and in the merit - with which he threatens the referral to the probivors for those who dare to vote against the oracle or the response of the platform of the Associate House. I pass, as I said, to the essential points: first of all, the constitutional law has qualified the assessment of the competent Chamber of the existence of one of the two famous statements. However, the Constitutional Court itself has specified that the indispensibleness can only exist if the decision taken is "congruly reasoned." Certainly the report that President Gasparri presented on behalf of the majority is broad and abundant, as to the length of the considerations, but only to that. In my opinion, in fact, there are contradictions and incongruities which affect the substance of the argument. I do not want to be a causid, but the Consultative Committee has not spoken of conclusions that are adequately motivated and long, but congruently motivated and therefore plausible, logically consistent, legally unspoken. The adjectives count in this case - indeed! - and on this could also be played, in the future, the game of a possible conflict of attribution. This is not an unlimited indispensability: the Court has already said so several times. Secondly, much emphasis is placed in the report on the thesis, perhaps a little too creative, that, in the event of irreversible injuries to fundamental rights, even the existence of a ministerial crime could not be hypothesized, as it could be a mere ordinary crime. In fact, this principle has never been stated by anyone before and it cannot be excluded, in general and abstract, that in particular circumstances it can also be considered a ministerial offence which has produced such irreversible consequences. In any case, whether or not this argument is acceptable, however, in the state, the Court of Cassation has repeatedly reiterated that the elements that characterize the category of ministerial crimes are the particular subjective legal qualification of the offender at the time when it is committed and the relationship of connection between the integrating conduct of the wrongdoing and the duties exercised by the Minister, which exists all the times in which the act or conduct is nevertheless referable to the functional competence of the subject and has never added anything else. I repeat: he never did. So, I think a first slip, which, however, risks the majority themselves being a real derailment. It is evident the instrumentality of the thesis, which must be read also to the contrary, in its terrible implicit admission. I mean that the report, in essence, admits that there have been injuries to fundamental rights, even if they are not irreversible, otherwise the ministerial crime could not be hypothesized. Well, if the majority admits the violation of fundamental rights, then it follows - and it could not be otherwise - that the consideration of the possible existence of one of the two claims provided for by the law must be particularly strict, or, if one prefers, that the primacy of the public interest pursued must be particularly founded and manifest. But this did not happen. In fact, the report excludes the existence of a personal interest - as would be the case with the receipt of money for an act of office - but also of a party interest, which, instead, represents - let us not be fooled - the real purpose of the conduct held by the Minister in order to be at the center of the political and media scene in mid-August. The report is almost apodictic and, in any case, lacking in motivation for the pre-eminent public interest pursued. The fight against illegal immigration? Let us then address the subject, which is extremely complex and cannot be reduced to slogans. In this sense, I could point out that not all the country is convinced that this is a prominent public interest. There have been popular demonstrations of contrary sign and opinions, even of economists, about the contribution of non-EU countries - it will be no shame if I quote the opinion of INPS President Boeri on contributions - not to mention the non-Plebiscitary results of the Rousseau platform and so on. But I want to get down on that ground. Was that conduct functional to protect that supposedly preeminent public interest? We know very well that, in the end, especially of the people transferred to Lazio have lost track. Therefore, that initial conduct was not even concretely functional to pursue that interest. But perhaps the heart of the problem is another. The relationship revolves around us, but it is silent on a decisive point. In other words, it is not demonstrated that only and exclusively with that conduct - according to the judiciary constitutes the extremes of the offence of kidnapping - it was possible to protect that pre-eminent public interest, not being able to adopt any other behavior that does not constitute a criminal offence. Only by keeping hundreds of people in inhuman and embarrassing conditions on the Diciotti ship, by not letting them down and not indicating the hotspot could the public interest be protected? Then why was such a course never followed by previous ministers? So why didn't the outgoing minister Minniti, who also achieved unmistakable results in limiting the arrival of migrants in our country, need to resort to this mode? We cannot reach the absurd conclusion that only with such conduct can there be a contrast to immigration, with the consequent conclusion that all previous governments, even of center-right and also with Ministers of the inside of the League, having not adopted them, have not protected a pre-eminent public interest. These, of course, are paradoxes, but they want to show that the conclusions of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity are not 'congruly motivated', but are illogical and even lacking, in the part in which the functional exclusivity of the conduct contested is not demonstrated for the purposes of the pursuit of that supposedly preeminent public interest, which, among other things, should be manifest and obvious and not the object of strong conflicts with public opinion. But, to put it mildly, the report itself is afraid of the conclusions that have been made, where it specifies that they will not constitute a binding precedent, but in the future it will always be necessary to consider them on a case-by-case basis. And he wouldn't miss it, I say, and he would also say monsieur de La Palice. The problem lies in the method followed, because - this yes - constitutes a precedent, that is to say, to mask, by majority blows, a party interest - by majority, in fact - to whose primary protection the contested conduct was actually addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Allow me to make one last remark, which perhaps comes out of the thema decision-making. [[Recalls of the President]] I'll ask you for a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u12	He's got less time, actually.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u13	STEFANO (PD). In the request of the judiciary, contradictory testimonies emerge from the leaders and, in particular, from the Ministry of the Interior. Ex post letters from President Conte and ministers Di Maio and Toninelli were sent to endorse the sharing of the choices made by Minister Salvini. However, we must be careful because the ministerial nature of the crime was not under discussion. Sharing does not in itself indicate the existence of a pre-eminent public interest. In technical terms, it's about confessions of having competed in the crime. I will really conclude by saying that this does not mean - I intend to retain respect for the duty of presumption of not guilty - that Minister Salvini is already responsible for me for the crime of kidnapping: I do not know and none of us at the moment can know and therefore say so. We remain guaranteed, but that does not mean impunity, nor subtraction from the process. I simply wish to reiterate that the absence of intuitive evidence in the terms indicated cannot allow the activation of an unbearable guarentigy, because it is only expressive of a political protection of the current governmental order. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u14	Excuse me, Senator, but if you have ten minutes, it's ten minutes and you've spoken for 12 minutes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I begged you to finish at the appointed time. I have never taken the word off, as it has always been done, but you have spoken for more than 12 minutes. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u15	I really want to look at you, colleagues, while you do it. I want to watch you betray that manifesto that, presumptuously, you have always claimed to make you more honest than others. Today you prove that that manifesto was and is a liar. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u16	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u17	I remind everyone of the respect of the assigned times.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a somewhat atypical role: we must be judges of ourselves. And so, as far as we are concerned, our compass is the report of President Gasparri, to whom our praise goes, because it is timely and precise, especially with regard to one point, that concerning the protection of the public interest of constitutional importance of a constitutional body of the State, namely the Government of the Republic. I would therefore like to start with rhetorical questions, which may then be useful for the conclusions. Did the Italian Government rescue those 177 migrants? Yes. Did you guarantee them food and drink? Yes. Did you give them medical or health care? Yes. So, what was it? There was a need to hold them back. Why? First of all - and not only - because they had to be identified, which I think is a necessary procedure to guarantee the security of the country: we must know who enters Italy and it is not a dogma, but it is a requirement of the Italian people. We want to know who enters our country, who crosses our borders. Then there is a theme that no one ever talks about: it is like when you want to take the dust and you want to hide it under the carpet. Nobody cares about where people are going when they land. We only deal with when they arrive, to make them land and then no one knows where they go, as bells and where they live and this is a theme that cannot be overlooked every time, because it is fundamental for civil coexistence in our country. We are deeply convinced that in the case we are debating there has been no violation of any rule, not only of a constitutional nature, but also of those contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in particular Article 5. Have torture been carried out or has the legal recognition of international protection been prevented? Absolutely not and, therefore, there has been no violation of any human right in that circumstance. There was a need to share a global phenomenon with other European Weights. And then I want to say very frankly that President Gasparri did well when he considered it appropriate to involve other members of the Government, because the act put in place by Minister Salvini was shared by the entire governmental body, since there was not a single declaration of contrary sign. No Minister said he did not recognize himself in that act and therefore to oppose it. Well, then, the collegiality of the government. Allow me, however, to make a note of the work of this government. The problems of this nature are not solved in Lampedusa; they are not solved in the Mediterranean. Dear friends, these problems are solved in Brussels. The problem is that when we talk about emigration in Brussels, which is a worldwide historical phenomenon, the friends of the League refrain when it comes to amending the Dublin Rules and even the 5 Stars vote against them. And this is not a fact that can be archived so easily. Then that resolution goes to the European Council, which - dear friends, it seems a surprise - is made by governments: the European Union is not an abstract entity, but it is made by the governments of European countries. That amendment, which guarantees the equitable distribution of migrants, is therefore rejected. You must therefore ask yourself how you intend to deal with such a problem in isolation, since you do not speak with the Germans; and as far as the French are concerned, the vice-president of the Di Maio Council goes to Paris, legitimizes the yellow vests then realizes that he has made a fool of himself and goes back. The isolation in Europe, unfortunately, will force us to live in solitude the tragedy of migration. I would like to be very brief, Mr President, in saying that I think we have an important challenge: to be able to combine the noble value of solidarity, which no one here wants to reject, with the concrete need to ensure - on the one hand - security - on the other - above all to allow our fellow citizens living in the outskirts of cities and who every day struggle to access public services not to feel discriminated against. This is the real challenge we have before us and we cannot do it with a Manichaean vision between those who want and those who do not want immigrants to enter the country. The theme is this and not racial prejudice, because no Italian feels superior by race compared to non-EUs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The problem that Italians live is to feel discriminated against. Yesterday we read in a newspaper that a total of 215 people were assigned to non-EU citizens in Milan. Unfortunately, these events create a form of confusion in our fellow citizens and we cannot pretend that these problems do not exist, perhaps because many thinkers live in the penthouses of the historic centers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is what we must put at the heart of the debate. I shall conclude, Mr President, by compensating those who took more time than I did. Of course, the Forza Italia Group will vote for the authorization of Minister Salvini, but not because it belongs to the political class; not because it is the leader of an ally party, but simply because on sensitive issues such as security and migration policies for us must win the primacy of politics, in accordance with the laws. That is why we are firmly opposed to the authorization to proceed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u19	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I will not deal with the matter in technical terms, because the limits within which it takes place have already been fully indicated, especially in minority reports. It has already been said that in this Chamber we must only decide whether at the time conditions existed for the protection of that particular interest of the State and, therefore, whether this interest perhaps pre-eminent in relation to the individual rights that were sacrificed in the context of the matter under consideration, in order to know whether the existing legislation exists and exists. However, I believe that it is necessary to highlight the succession of events, because they serve to clarify the various responsibilities. Meanwhile, a fact that is evident to the eyes is that the whole story is impregnated with those that in the courtrooms are usually called procedural adjustments, the most resounding of which are the letters arrived to the rescue and received to the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity by the President of the Count Council and by the ministers Di Maio and Toninelli. Only a posteriori and many months after the events we are dealing with, the latter have remembered that the measures taken by Minister Salvini, among other things assumed in absolute autonomy - as has been confirmed by the people heard in advance and even I would say not only in autonomy but also in solitude - had been, according to the content of those letters, agreed beforehand by the Government in its entirety. The two letters sent - as I have already said - after the Council of Parliament's elections and immunities are obviously late, and they are also an adjustment. In fact, there is nowhere to be found an act of the Government from which the decision that originated the whole affair appears, unless we must believe that it was taken in the course of some chat. But this is absolutely impossible for the acts of government. On the other hand, it would also be useful to note that President Conte, beyond what he said yesterday morning in this House, denied himself, because only twenty days before he had authorised the landing - by chance - of immigrants from the same ship Diciotti. I repeat: only twenty days before he had, of authority, ordered the landing, among other things with the obvious dissent, made public, of Minister Salvini. The same must be said for the letter of the two ministers Di Maio and Toninelli, who run to the rescue in order to avoid that authorization is granted and then the entire government plant is called into question. There is no formal act of the Government and, among other things, they not only deny themselves, but they develop the entire Movement to which they belong, which has always argued that the permissions to proceed should still be granted. This says a lot about the coherence and authenticity of the 5 Star Movimento policy line, which adopts its own decisions depending on who the target audience is and according to the convenience of the moment. It is not enough: it is humiliating for this House to have read and heard the messages that have been sent to the members of the Group, with which retaliation has been threatened, as well as the warning to the college of probivors, if they do not adhere to the indications of vote of the famous platform, which - as has already been said yesterday - is addressed by the great maneuvers depending on the convenience. Another late defensive line, with its foundation, is the behavior that the Maltese authorities would have held. It has been said that in fact the story was born because the Maltese authorities had directed the ship to Italy, while in fact it was directed towards Malta. Well, apart from the fact that this concerns at other times and at other times, it should be remembered that, if there had been a violation of international standards by the Maltese authorities, the Italian Government could have taken other measures: it could have opened a diplomatic incident or asked for Europe's intervention to clarify the matter, but so much has not been done. Only later it was said that the behaviour of the Government was determined by the fact that the ship in difficulty had been addressed to the Italian ports. We do not understand why nothing has been done before, but clearly that was not the reason for the decision taken by Mr Salvini not to have the shipwrecked landed. Here we deal only with the period between 19 and 24 August. According to international regulations, once migrants were collected, it was necessary to identify the POS and this was indicated in the port of Catania. The ship was then docked at the port of Catania, but the shipwrecked were not sent down. It is worth remembering that the Italian ship, apart from the fact that it was flying the Italian flag, was also a military vessel and was therefore already Italian territory. Therefore, there was no violation of the borders, because it was already the territory of the State. It has also been said that health care has been provided to the people present and that some cases of scabies have been detected. But this is also a resounding autogol that mortifies the right to health guaranteed by our Constitution. In fact, beyond the fact that the ship was so small and it was impossible to provide adequate assistance to 177 people, among other things deserving of protection from the State, if there were cases of scabies, I believe that it would have been necessary to immediately bring the sick down, to hospitalize them and make sure that they had adequate care and above all that the disease did not spread. This has not been done. It has also been said that there was the possibility - or the probability - of terrorists in the shipwrecked group. But - lively God - if it was so, one cannot avoid complimenting the Minister of the Interior. If it had been true that such a danger existed, I believe that an appropriate Minister of the Interior should have immediately, on the boat itself, proceeded to identify all the shipwrecked, but this has not been done. On the contrary, after four and a half days, the shipwrecked were allowed to go down without any control. All the subjects who had been welcomed into that ship have escaped without even being identified by the Italian authority. This operation, therefore, has ensured that today 177 people who could be terrorists or anointed, bearers of scabies are freely and unpunished in our territory. This is the condition in which our Minister, by his measure, put Italy. It can therefore be assumed - as I said - that its behaviour has not been in conformity with the current legislation. Among other things, it is also resounding that some of the witnesses felt in the immediacy in September, who initially unequivocally said that the measure had been taken in total autonomy by the Minister who took measures in this regard, alone. Then they went back and recanted this version. There is no doubt that the judiciary should be allowed to judge. The fact is very simple: 177 people were used who were entitled to protection to put pressure on Europe in the matter of immigration - it has also been said - depriving them of their personal freedom and preventing their free movement on the territory of the State; people who were already on the territory of the State, who were prevented from moving freely, endangering their health and even national security, if it is true that there was suspicion that there were terrorists among themselves. At this point it is necessary to grant permission for Minister Salvini to submit himself to the judgment of the judiciary, which will assess whether or not criminal responsibilities exist. Parliament would certainly gain credibility in the eyes of the country, the democratic system would benefit and would certainly also be strengthened. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u22	Mr President, it is a very sensitive issue that we are dealing with today because of the implications of international law and respect for our Constitution. As far as international law is concerned, I shall confine myself to the absolute synthesis made by Jürgen Habermas: one of the consequences of the concept of sovereignty developed by classical international law is the prohibition of interfering in principle in the internal affairs of an internationally recognized state. In the UN Charters this ban is confirmed but also offset from the outset by the development of international protection of human rights. First conclusion: sovereignty can never, never erase fundamental human rights. Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 amended Article 96 of the Constitution precisely to overcome the limitations previously found and overshadowed a state of political-constitutional necessity capable of justifying the criminal action of a Minister. The reform sought to deprive Parliament of the qualification of the crime and gave Parliament, as a representative political body, the function of being able to inhibit judicial action, following the response of priority interests that emerge in the concrete action of the Government, which, as permanently relevant to the community, could also be satisfied by carrying out illegal activities. But this is the new article 96. For this reason, in doctrine, it is said that the Chambers operate in defense of the objective values of the Constitution. Constitutional normality: this is what we are called to guarantee. Let's get the facts straight. Let us begin with the exercise of sovereignty. But which country can assume to use its own military vessel, its crew and 177 shipwrecked rescued as hostages for an international negotiation? Can we really consider this a gesture proportionate to the fact? Of course not. This is a page that adds only discredit, if not contempt. The question is, however, a different one. What was the state of necessity that had come to be created? What is the danger to the state? The overriding interests of the State which are permanently relevant, so as to enable a Minister to carry out illegal activities? The 177 shipwrecked? The Diciotti ship? Colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about the Diciotti ship and not the Bounty ship and its mutinies. A warning of danger related to terrorism or national security, public order or a possible epidemic? Which of these elements constituted the state of necessity and danger to the State? None, because at the time of the landing of the shipwrecks and the release of the crew of the ship of the Italian Coast Guard no administrative and judicial measures were issued against them. The reality is that there were not facts, but only political acts; the political will of the Minister to reaffirm his political line: the ports are closed and no one disembarks. The essential principle of constitutionalism consists in limiting the government by means of law. This sought to guarantee Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, by reforming Article 96, tending - as from the prevailing doctrine - to emphasize a function of Parliament's supervisory character on the political work of Ministers, thus emphasizing the role of Parliament as supreme interpreter of the public interest and of the constitutionally relevant ones of the State. The political convenience of the moment, the political ideology of the moment cannot trample on the protection of our Constitution and cancel the fundamental human rights. The democratic principle is not limited to the profile of the democratic selection of representatives of popular sovereignty, but also includes the guarantee of the fundamental values constituting the content of the political unity of the Republic. The Minister of the Interior wants to question this republican political unity, marrying the Schmittian logic of enemy friend opposition. It's wrong, especially if, to do so, he thinks he can do it by breaking the law. It is the judiciary that decides on the work of Minister Matteo Salvini and we agree that this is the case. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u23	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u24	Mr President, what we are called upon to decide today can certainly mark a moment, even a watershed in our history and, in some way, in the very application of the often-called Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. I am talking about a watershed, Mr President - and I also say this to my fellow Members - because what we are going to decide - and unfortunately, already seeing the decision taken by the Junta, the road seems to be marked - can be exactly a dangerous and very dangerous precedent and I must say that the debate and the echo of some of the speeches concern me even more in this regard. I have heard - and I am thinking of Mr Modena's speech last night, but also of what Mr Saccone did just now - of the primacy of politics. This is the point, contrary to what we are obliged to observe today, establishing the exact perimeter of what we must decide, i.e. whether the action taken by Minister Salvini was a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or a prominent public interest. This is the exact question on which we should speak. It is clear then that we must compare the good protected by the Constitution and the action that has been put in place, establishing whether the aim was preeminent over the medium. And what worries me about the debate is that the end in this case cannot be the implementation of an electoral programme and a government contract. Let's think about what we're deciding. There can be no primacy of politics even in relation to the action of the judiciary, because this was also stated yesterday. We are called upon to decide whether the verbal order given to Diciotti, a military ship with Italian military crew, not to land the 177 refugees he had on board was an action that could be justified by the fact that a constitutionally significant interest in the state was being protected. What was the interest of the state? Are we talking about crimes that one can commit in order to achieve the implementation of one's own political line or a so-called government line? Is there a government interest which at this point replaces, as already indicated in some way by minority speakers as a danger, that of the constitutionally relevant State? That is the point, and it is the question that worries me and all of us because this will become a dangerous precedent. Anyone who governs, of course, wants to make sure that he can implement his own programme, his own political line or achieve electoral interests, but does this mean that he even becomes the aim to which all means can be bent? That is the difference that we are risking marking in the escape from the rule of law. The difference between the rule of law and other - I do not want to use strong words, but it is clear that the scenario is that - is if the actions of government of the Ministers and of the President of the Council are dissolved by law, are legibus solutae. Is that what we're saying? Each of us ruled, had his own experience. I've been the city council member of the city of Rome. Of course it was essential for me to implement some programmes, because everyone has an interest in wanting to do it quickly for a general interest, such as building a large park, setting up a protected area, making public transport work. However, laws cannot be bypassed to implement the programmes. I could not - rather than proceed with the regular expropriation, according to law - occupy an area and say that from that moment on, being the city councilman and pre-eminent the public interest, because I want to realize the park, I can do it even without respecting the law. And in this particular case we are even paradoxical, because another statement is made: the end that justifies the means can be implemented without even carrying out acts. The order has been given verbally, there is the mystery - it is not understood - of how and in what form the ports would have been closed; the action would not have been decided by the Government but has arrived a sort of posthumous solidarity. It is as if, before a trial, a debtor makes press releases in which he declares that he has paid or paid, and this may be valid and replace the fact that he has formally implemented the payment. This is what is being affirmed and is endorsing another dangerous element: public functions can be exercised on social media rather than through press releases or verbal orders, and not through acts. This is the other very serious aspect that calls into question a system of rules, of law, of respect for the same laws. The following is the point: the precedent that we risk with the decision we are about to take in this House in a few hours is very serious. There is even a further step forward because, Mr President, the debate that will accompany the decision will count and the debate will also count in the previous one. The political interests are bent - even of some who perhaps want to please Minister Salvini, hoping, perhaps, that one day he can return to the center-right coalition - and it is stated that there is a primacy of politics and, therefore, the choices in migration policy are those and replace the interest of the constitutionally relevant State, becoming in itself a prominent public interest. That is the serious issue that is likely to be raised. This is the precedent that worries us very much, but which should worry everyone, because it can happen again. With this precedent it is established that there is an immunity in fact. President Grasso said yesterday that there is a risk of establishing total immunity and impunity. Frankly, we don't want it, and we should all think about it. I have also heard statements that cannot be heard. In relation to personal freedom, it was said that migrants had not been deprived of them, because they were given food and drink and given care. Well, even the kidnapped are still fed - even in prison they are given food, drink and care - but that does not mean that there is a deprivation of freedom. What are we talking about? Personal freedom is constitutionally protected and nothing can justify its deprivation without elements that are clear, obvious and proven. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the PD and the left want to trial Mr Salvini for doing their duty. We of Brothers of Italy think that many of his predecessors should be tried for not having done their duty. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Those who today would like Salvini on the bench of the accused are the same who, with their inertia, their complicity, their hypocritical goodness, have caused the invasion by hundreds of thousands of fake refugees. An army of desperate people, who have become largely prey to exploitation, undeclared work, prostitution, organ trafficking, and in other parts, certainly no less important, have become workers of organized crime, drug dealing and all other kinds of illicit trafficking. Only those who refuse to face the reality can pretend not to see the public interest in the action of the Government and the Minister, aimed at stopping the perverse interweaving between the scafists and NGOs, with the latter transformed, aware or not, into accomplices of the trafficking of human beings that, as is known, makes more than the trafficking of weapons and drugs. There is a fact that makes public interest evident in the Minister's action without the need for so many speeches: foreigners in Italy account for 8% of the resident population, but they commit 40% of rapes, 25% of murders, 42% of thefts. What is the Minister's fault in combating this dramatic emergency inherited from the Democratic Party governments? The fault would be - think a little - to have prevented for a few days the landing on the Italian soil of the shipwrecked rescued from the ship Diciotti. As if the ship Diciotti was not a safe place, as if the shipwrecked had not been rebuilt and cared for with all the attention of the case. As if the shipwrecked, once landed, had been free to leave where they seemed best and not taken over and transferred to supervised centres, as stated by the European Council of 28 June, which, among other things, recommended: "to dismantle human trafficking and avoid the tragic loss of human victims it is necessary to eliminate any incentive to undertake dangerous journeys". It is here, ladies and gentlemen, that the public interest lies. Those who arrive without complying with the rules, in Italy must not be considered refugee until proven otherwise: it must be considered illegal until proven otherwise. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] and then held until the final determination of its real condition. And if it does not appear to have the right to protection (and I say this also to the Minister), it must be expelled. Emigrating is not a right. Fortunately, Italy has not signed the global compact, I believe also thanks to the work carried out by the Brothers of Italy in this sense. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] Therefore, if a rebuke were to be made to the Minister it would be that he had not kept these people under control and let them escape, like thousands more before them. But this is not the subject of today, which is instead the authorization to proceed towards Minister Salvini. The left has repeated in this House, almost like a chorus, that Salvini must defend himself in the trial, must not defend himself from the trial. Dear colleagues from the PD who have repeated this chorus all day yesterday, you are aware that the process is already here. It is us, this House is the judge. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We are exercising a judicial function. It is up to us and only to us to determine whether or not the eminently special public interest exists. We cannot delegate this task to the judiciary, it is not by law its competence: either it is a decision that we take, or it is a decision that no one else can make. We cannot say that we should let the court decide, that we must assume this responsibility and that we must assume the responsibility to say that the public interest exists. We say so after studying the papers and reading the rapporteur's proposal, which we share without reservation. We say it without hiding behind a poll like the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars. But what survey? It is as if the judge, after hearing the parties' conclusions, in the doubt whether to absolve or condemn, suspends the hearing and consults the public, the staff of the Registry and those who pass there on a case-by-case basis. No, we must take responsibility, we are the judges and we of Brothers of Italy say that not only does the pre-eminent public interest exist, but in this case there is a real national interest, which is still a higher concept and principle. We of Brothers of Italy, when national interest is at stake, know very well which side we must take. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Media School "Giuseppe Toniolo" in Pieve di Soligo, in the province of Treviso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u28	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u29	Mr President, today's choice requires us to assume responsibility outside all party bonds, out of any order of stables. All of us in this House are called upon to make this choice in freedom of conscience, knowing that our every assessment is, first and foremost, of an institutional nature, is about the balance between the different powers of the State and the margins of freedom that lie within the political decision in a rule of law. In the illiberal regimes everything is controlled by the Government, starting with the judiciary. In the anti-democratic regimes - we have an example of this in Venezuela today - we cannot oppose the government. In so-called judicial regimes, the sovereignty of the judges' decision cannot be discussed. I respect, of course, everyone's opinion, but someone mistakenly assumed that the assessment that the Senate will have to make today on the Diciotti case should focus on this simple question: can the government mandate given to a minister foresee or not the commission of crimes? In fact, we all understand that, if this were the subject of our assessment, it would be completely unnecessary and superfluous, because under no circumstances could a government mandate given to a minister foresee ex ante the commission of crimes. The question, on the other hand, which we are called upon to assess under Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, Article 9 (3) concerns the fact that the Minister has acted for the pursuit of a governmental public interest or vice versa if he has acted for a purpose inherent in his private interest. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the place to make assessments of Mr Salvini's immigration policy, because we have already expressed this opinion. I personally voted no to the vote of confidence in the Count Government. We are not even called to express our agreement or disagreement about the goodness of the measures taken, but only on the fact that these decisions were taken for the private interest of Minister Salvini and not by implementing political choices agreed in the Government and the result of political direction. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not waste the opportunity for a high level of reflection on the rule of law, at a further stage in the endless reckoning between us. [[Call the president back.]] I'll finish, ma'am. This is about defending the autonomy and discretion of politics and, in so doing, defending the principle that opposition to governments is entrusted to Parliament and to the choices of citizens, not to the power of supplement granted to judges. Allow me the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars: today you deny a conception based on a cynical safeguard of the Government, not on the basis of a self-critical reflection. I do exactly the opposite: I object to this Government, but I do not deny my liberal conception, which entrusts the voters of the citizens and not the judges with the destiny of our democracy. For this reason, I shall vote in accordance with the Gasparri report on the no to the authorization to proceed with the Minister of the Interior because, in a rule of law, his fate is entrusted to the vote of the Italians and not to the improper addition exercised by the judges. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az]] , Delministro Salvini and Senator Steger). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, others in these days and in this long debate have better illustrated the legal and regulatory reasons for which we shall vote in favour of the authorisation to proceed. I merely recall the recent intervention of the President of the Count Council, who yesterday, on the issue of immigration, said two very simple things, which I agree with: the migration issue must be addressed not by considering it an emergency and by setting itself the objective of governing the phenomenon of migration. I have to say that, if this is the government's line, on the Diciotti case and on many other events, not least yesterday's one, the opposite has been done. The presence of a ship of non-governmental organisations on board 177 people, 177 desperate, including women and minors, cannot be called an emergency. It certainly cannot be considered an act of immigration governance to think that this issue can be addressed by taking migrants saved by non-governmental organisations hostage, leaving them at sea in order to be able to influence Europe. Mr. Minister, I know I shouldn't be addressing you directly, but I'm taking advantage. I have the impression that you, rather than governing the imagination, are using it for political reasons. You have set up a Truman show over the last few months, where you assign the parts. There are NGOs, which suddenly, from organizations that help to avoid the deaths at sea, have become enemies to fight; suddenly migrants and desperate people, 177 on the Diciotti and 49 yesterday, who are saved at sea become the enemy for the security of this country. Then in this Truman show you assume several roles: the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Transport, the Prosecutor of the Republic and, as I saw this morning, also the judge, because you have already decided that you must put in prison the representatives of NGOs, who yesterday saved 50 people. It's a great Truman show, in which he also invents some data: all the organizations say that 150 people have died at sea since the beginning of the year and she, in the Ministry's data, recalls only one and then hides others, but now I get there. All this because you, Minister, want to use the subject politically, to make propaganda and to present yourself as the man of the closed ports, capable of deceiving the Italians who are canceling an epochal phenomenon, such as that of immigration. He's doing it by showing his ferocious face and bad face, mistreating a little desperate to discourage the landings of people, crossing deserts and putting themselves in the sea risking their lives. But if we show the bad face - as explained to me, when we discussed the security decree - they no longer leave. But this is not happening, and you, Minister, are deceiving the citizens, because you are hiding the reality, which you should face, if you want to be the Minister of the Interior. If he wants to make the country's preeminent interest, he has to face reality. It is true: there is no emergency from Libya. However, non-governmental organisations are not the problem. Minister, you must take care of what is happening in Slovenia, from which thousands of irregular immigrants are entering Italy and you must take care of what you are entering Tunisia. The other day, in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, the representative of the Palermo Public Prosecutor told us that in a year they landed, with small sailboats, governed by Italian and foreign organizations, 7,000 people, with 200 landings, and these are only the data arrived on the table of the Procures. Minister, the Viminal data doesn't count, but there are and they are more dangerous than the others, because you don't know who they are. They sneak in, managed by organizations also Italian, that bring them to their destination. When will the Minister of the Interior begin to explain that this is the problem? When will the Minister of the Interior, instead of picking on the poor people of Diciotti or yesterday's boat or NGOs, begin to raise an alarm and put in place interventions? We are talking about thousands of ghosts and the trafficking of men and perhaps not just men, but it does not. Of course it's harder to deal with this thing, spectacularize it and make propaganda, but you can't ignore it. I know that saying these things, Minister, risks destroying your image as a strong and courageous man who has armored the borders. It is easy to become desperate, but it is more difficult to secure the country, which has 4,000 kilometers of coast, where you land in Marsala, Lampedusa or Trapani. What are you doing? Nothing. Hide this data: I saw the Ministry's data just yesterday and it says that they entered in 6,000, but 7,000 entered only with the ghost landings and so it is not so. Mr Minister, we want to try - and we will fight it politically - but we think it is the judiciary that has to decide on this matter. Don't get out of here. The judiciary must decide, Minister Salvini, do not hide behind the motto "The people are with me," because I know a people who do not agree with you. We believe that it is not the 200,000 people who have demonstrated in Milan that have decided whether his actions have been legal or illegal, as this is the responsibility of the magistrates. Therefore, don't get away, let the magistrates judge you, and let's check whether or not crimes have been committed in that affair. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u32	Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, I will start with the facts, knowing that in politics, as in life, the facts lend themselves to interpretations, must be brought down in a context and often give rise to consequences that have nothing to do with their nature. Politically speaking, the facts concerning the Diciotti ship are a political disaster from every point of view. It is disastrous the image of a Government that forbids a Navy ship to dock in a national and disastrous port are the political consequences. Three were the premises made by the Minister of the Interior: Europe will have to take charge of the reception of migrants transported by the ship Diciotti; the ship will not dock in an Italian port; no migrant will touch the Italian soil. Europe, as usual, has not taken responsibility for the migrants of the Diciotti ship, just as it has never taken charge of the migrants who cross the Mediterranean to enter Europe through the nearest door, which - unfortunately - is the Italian one. The ship "Diciotti" has docked in a Sicilian port and all migrants have descended on Italian soil. The story has been made more than ever shocking also because the Viminale himself explained that the prohibition of docking for the Diciotti was justified with the suspicion that on that ship could have been boarded by terrorists. If they were terrorists, we freed them on our national territory. These are the facts, but they have been interpreted, legitimately, in a manner contrary to their nature, because they are placed in a context in which the State - not the physical person Matteo Salvini, but the function that Matteo Salvini covers - seeks, as best it can, to counter the claim of non-governmental organizations to open a humanitarian corridor in fact, often transporting directly from the Libyan coasts to the Italian coasts thousands of migrants. This happens in the face of a phenomenon that, with all the evidence, is epochal and affects a West that, precisely in this historical phase, has lost its identity because of globalization, the change of the context and the system of life and many other phenomena, not least the systematic desovranization of the national States, which is then at the origin of the political phenomena that we are witnessing not only in Italy, but throughout Europe. I realize that the word "identity" does not say much to the left, which has grown with the myth, evidently failed, of multiculturalism. I realize that it also says little to the left represented by the Movimento 5 Stars, which has in Jean-Jacques Rousseau its own protection. Rousseau was a gentleman who said that all men are born good and are equal and that - he wrote in "The Social Contract" - the fruits of the earth belong to all. However, I believe that it is a duty for a state - and not for a natural person - to protect national identity and to try, as best possible, to put an end to the enormous phenomenon of migration, which affects civil coexistence. Politics - explained Max Weber - must be adhered to the ethics of responsibility; it is the Church and religion that can be allowed the luxury of the ethics of principles, that is to say one does what is considered right regardless of the consequences that actions presuppose. But even a man of church like Pope Francis linked the reception of migrants to the concrete possibility of integrating migrants into Italian society, a possibility that the Italian State clearly fails to fulfil, assuming that they are then all integrated in equal measure. A couple of years ago, I commissioned a survey to an authoritative pollist, Antonio Noto, then published in the National Newspaper, to try to understand how actually Muslims resident in Italy, those who are believed to be already integrated, reason, live and think of their being in Italy. Well, the figures have been rather disconcerting. 31 percent of Muslims living in Italy believe that women do not have the same rights as men and should wear a veil; 41 percent believe that women should not study and should not emancipate through study; 25 percent believe that women should not even drive the car. 58 percent say they are not integrated - and this is clearly a failure of the state - but 31 percent of the total states that they do not want to integrate, and this is a problem for the state, a problem that I believe a state and those who represent its functions have a duty to contain. Therefore the action of the Government with respect to the Diciotti affair, dropped in this context, is a legitimate action, which legitimately interprets a public interest and I do not think this is incontestable. If we are talking about this today with this gravity, if a crisis of government has touched on this, it is because we have been coming from twenty-five years of systematic delegitimization of politics and political function, as well as the difference that the politician represents with respect to the common citizen. We have changed articles of the Constitution that provided for what today is fashionable to define the primacy of politics: from the abolition of parliamentary immunity to the abolition of public funding of parties, to the Severino law, to the highly questionable law on the trafficking of illicit influences, we have done nothing but delegitimize politics at the root, thus preventing politics from manifesting itself for what it really is. Hence the trauma that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Star are experiencing, that they have grown with that rhetoric, on those assumptions, around those principles that have nothing to do with the ethics of responsibilities, so much so that they are systematically putting them into discussion, in violation of their identity, but thus moving from the teenage age to adulthood. I therefore believe that this is a useful process in the context of the development of representative democracy. It is surprising that Matteo Salvini himself questioned this principle at the time when, at the beginning of the Diciotti affair, he said he would be judged. And so, even if Minister Salvini misses the difference between man and the function that man holds, between the political leader and the State with his prerogatives, I believe that there is a duty on our part and in this Assembly to affirm the principle and therefore to defend, not the physical person Matteo Salvini, but the functions that that person covers, I dare say independently and despite who represents it at that time. Thank you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u34	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the House is today called upon to give its opinion on the conclusions of the Junta, in relation to the request for permission to proceed with Mr Salvini, who was made by the Court of Ministers. First of all, I would like to focus on developments in the work of the Junta. The members of the latter decided by a majority on the approval of the President's proposal, which contained in the operative part the refusal of authorization to proceed with Minister Salvini. The reason for this decision is based on the provisions of the law implementing Article 96 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, which, in Article 9 (3) provides that, in the context of proceedings opened against the Ministers, the Assembly may, by an absolute majority of the members, deny the authorization to proceed if it considers that the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or in order to pursue a pre-eminent public interest. As a preliminary step, it would therefore be necessary to make a parallelism between the requests for authorisation to proceed in relation to Article 68 and those resulting from Article 96, as interpreted by Constitutional Law No 1. Authorisation for criminal proceedings against Ministers does not concern the so-called fumus persecutionis, which, on the other hand, is the subject of the assessment referred to the competent Chamber under Article 68 of the Constitution. This is in line with the intention to place fully in the hands of the ordinary judicial authority the strictly legal assessments of the notitia crime, which have been fully returned to the Court of Ministers. On the other hand, the verification of the purposes represented by the criminals provided for in Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law n. l of 1989, are the object of a political choice removed from the free assessment of the judge. An additional profile of obvious distance between the two dictates is nouned in the form through which one arrives at the eventual pronunciation of the denial. In fact, unlike the provisions of Article 68 of the Constitution, i.e. a free-form procedure, Article 9 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 obliges the pronunciation of the refusal to authorise the recognition of explicitly identified parameters: having acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. It follows that the House of Membership should consider it an indispensable duty to vote in favour of granting authorization to proceed in cases where the criminals provided for in a ministerial offence are not recognised alternately. On the contrary, it could be said, beyond any reasonable doubt, that in cases where the Assembly repents in the conducts put in place by a minister the details of granting one of the criminals mentioned above, it is obliged to deny the authorization to proceed even in those cases where the action of the Minister may have sacrificed other goods ordinarily protected by criminal rules. Obviously all with the necessary limitations. In fact, the autonomy of the function of Government, in relation to the conducts that have generated the process at the expense of the party, should move in the context of the evaluation of the precondition inherent to the ministeriality of the crime. At this stage, there are systematic and procedural considerations on the non-configurability of ministerial offences in relation to criminal cases which irreversibly affect certain fundamental rights. In fact, a state murder would never be configurable in our constitutional order, not exceeding the preliminary consideration about the ministeriality of the crime and thus coming to fall into the area of so-called common crimes, taken as such both to the jurisdiction of the court of Ministers and to the filter of the authorization to proceed of the competent Chamber. In order to configure the criminal as provided for in Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 it is necessary, indeed, to render this Assembly as well as authoritative doctrine interprets the two criminals provided for therein. While the first (the interest of the constitutionally relevant State) refers to interests which the Constitution itself considers to be fundamental to the life of the State, the second (the pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government) differs from the first because it is no longer linked to interest but to function. In the event that we have jurisdiction we are faced with this last perspective and in this hypothesis the reduction of the arbitrariness inherent in admitting the sacrifice of goods protected by the criminal law, in the face of the need to protect the action of government, requires that the area of political pre-eminent is circumscribed, from the reference to the constitutionally relevant, albeit indirectly and in a less evident way than the first of the two justifications now under consideration. Our legal system allows caution so that there is an appropriate assessment of government activity in relation to the protection of values essential to the general interest. These measures ensure that the criminal in question cannot be aimed at the achievement of mere political interests of partisan, or at the safeguarding of a personal interest of the person who makes use of them. These precautions are the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, requested to support the decision to express the refusal to authorize, the obligation to justify the report of the Junta. Having said that, it is appropriate to set out what we are dealing with. Minister Salvini was the subject of a request for authorisation to proceed with the kidnapping of a person aggravated by the status of public officer, the abuse of the powers inherent in the functions exercised, as well as for having committed the fact also in damage of persons under age, with regard to the well-known judicial case concerning the permanence on board of the ship of the Coast Guard Diciotti of 177 migrants. There are a number of points that need to be clarified. The first concerns a correct qualification of the Minister's action in relation to the pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the role of Government. The second moves from a correct balance between the conduct put in place by the Minister and the interests injured by the Minister. Highlighting the political agenda of the reference period, it is clear that the Minister's action was aimed at safeguarding the pre-eminent public interest in relation to government action. This is in relation to the various institutional commitments, both at national and European level, in order to make it necessary to take joint responsibility for the problem of managing migratory flows, calling for a fairer redistribution of migrants within Europe. The President-in-Office of the Council, who, on 5 June 2018, in the course of the programmatic declarations, called for the adoption of the Dublin Regulation in the Senate in order to achieve effective compliance with the principle of fair distribution of responsibilities, the establishment of automatic systems for the compulsory relocation of asylum seekers, the reorganisation of the reception system and the signing of bilateral agreements with third countries for the management of migration flows. In the course of communications with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2018, President Conte, during the session of the Senate on 27 June, identified a series of objectives: to overcome the criterion of first arrival, by affirming the principle that those who land in Italy land in Europe; to assume common European responsibility for rescues at sea; to the creation of reception centres in several European countries aimed at a correct balance between the rights of those who arrive, on the one hand, and the protection of public order on the other. President Conte's communications, in view of the European Council of 18 October 2018, addressed the multilevel shared management of migration flows, so as to give priority to a structural approach compared to an emerging one, asking for a common response already in the landing phases and, subsequently, for redistribution and repatriation without additional charges for countries of first arrival such as Italy. Finally, in the course of the communications ahead of the European Council on 13 and 14 December 2018, held in the Senate on 11 December, the President of the Council stressed the need to regulate and manage migration flows of authentic European origin. In addition, the government's address on the Diciotti affair was expressed at the meeting of the Assembly on 12 September 2018. Finally, it is useful to remember that in the course of the examination of the request for authorization to proceed in Junta have been acquired, as annexes presented by the Minister of the Interior, acts that bear the signature of the President of the Council, of the Vice President Di Maio and of the Minister of the infrastructures that move in the same direction than that proposed from the minister Salvini. It is clear that the pursuit of a governmental public interest has characterized in its aims the behaviour of Minister Salvini, it is necessary to proceed to exclude that the law injured is an incompressible right and, in the alternative, to a correct balance between the conduct put in place, on the one hand, and the legal assets injured on the other. There is no doubt that the migrants in question had to remain on board the Diciotti vessel five more days due to the lack of authorisation to disembark. However, this ship could be considered a safe place, being anchored in port and being constantly assisted by doctors and supplied with basic necessities. It should also be mentioned that the shipwrecked in precarious physical conditions and unaccompanied minors had already been landed. It should also be noted that, once they descended to the ground, the migrants in question would not have been free to circulate on Italian territory, but would have been accompanied in hot spot centres, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 142 of 18 August 2015, for identification procedures. In other words, the right compressed in this case does not seem to be that of personal freedom tout court, but rather that of free movement. In any case, the right of foreigners to access and circulate on Italian soil is not an absolute and inviolable right, as it can provide for compression against the right-duty of the State to identify and regulate foreigners and restrict their access. The same Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides for the possibility of compressing the fundamental right of personal freedom in order to prevent illegal access to the territory of a foreign State. If it is true that this article provides that such detentions should be regular and if it is considered that the "detention" which occurred in the present case would have taken place outside a pre-established legal framework, nevertheless the lack of rules allowing the delay of the landing finds for the sole purpose of verifying the possible illegality of the conduct of the Minister, but not also of the investigation on the nature of the compressed right that the aforementioned Article 5 clearly does not consider as absolute, providing for physiological cases of limitation. Without prejudice to the fact that the rights compressed in this case can be regarded as fundamental rights, so to speak, as "incompressible," the balance between the interests pursued and the sacrifice imposed on the said rights of individuals must be balanced. To this end, it should be noted that the time spent on board the ship has not lasted beyond the time strictly necessary for the Government to address the issue of the relocation of migrants in Europe and other countries outside the European Union. There are no specific damages suffered by shipwrecks due to such expectation, also considering the constant assistance reserved to them on board and the intervention authorization to disembark for unaccompanied minors and subjects under precarious physical conditions. The postponement of the landing was also linked to the wait for the European summit scheduled for 24 August, so it was proportionate to the Community initiative undertaken. This does not mean to ignore the possible discomfort caused to the migrants detained on board the ship, many of whom certainly already experienced by previous sufferings, as well as the tragedy of migration itself. However, it is considered that there has been, in the present case, an adequate balance between this inconvenience and the important objectives pursued by the Government. Proof that the landing authorisation was granted on 25 August without further expectation, despite the unfavorable outcome of the 24th European meeting. In view of the non-susistence of the compression of absolute rights and the absence of confirmed physical and psychic damages consequent to the action of the Minister, it is therefore considered that the public interests pursued in the case of the species can be considered premissive regarding the sacrifice constituted from the detention on board of a ship, in which the migrants have not been forced to ascend, but in which indeed they have found salvation regarding own shipwreck, for a limited time and however closely related to the international initiatives necessary to their relocation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u35	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u36	. (Minister Salvini moves on his scranno di senatore). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would never have thought of intervening for kidnapping, but I am doing it absolutely calm and calm. I love my country and for nine months I have devoted all my energy to defending the security, borders and serenity of Italians, so I believe it is my privilege to tell you what happened. With this speech in this House, I would like to present to you some elements of assessment which I consider essential to clarify every aspect of the Diciotti affair, since I have listened to a number of inaccuracies. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Catania, in accordance with the provisions of the Court of Ministers, has requested permission to proceed with me by transmitting the relevant acts. First of all, I would like to point out that it was not I who requested the transmission of the documents. Someone may not have realized that in order to go to trial I should lie to this Senate and to the Italians and I should say that I have not done the public interest of my country and to tell me lies comes little and gets bad, especially in a Chamber like this. It's my limit. Forgive me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Having become aware of the existence of investigations, I have waited for the judgements of the court, remaining at the disposal of the judicial authority, abstaining from filing documents and memoirs aimed at obtaining recognition of the ministerial nature of the crime that is contested me. Five different judicial offices - five - have independently recognized the ministerial nature of the conduct attributed to me and of this circumstance I can only acknowledge, of course. It is now up to the Senate to consider whether the Minister of the Interior has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State and for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest. The law, fortunately, attributes this assessment to you. I will confine myself, for my part, to reconstruct in a correct and exhaustive way what happened, because it is essential to clarify that the story Diciotti does not begin with the docking of the ship to the port of Catania, but much earlier. From the reconstruction of the facts of the Forces of the Order, it emerges that there is in presence an initiative of the Italian Government consistent with the politics relative to the migratory flows. Forgive me, I don't usually get excited when I speak, but there's a crime involved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Usually, then, I go by arm, while this time I put it in writing because when you question that with my work I have done privately, abusing my office, something I have done, I do and I will do to defend the safety of my own and your children, forgive me a little 'emotion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Let's move on. The numbers. The numbers say that, in doing so, we saved thousands of lives: 2015: immigrants landed 153,000, victims recovered at sea 296; 2016: immigrants landed at sea 181,000, victims recovered at sea 390; 2017: immigrants landed 119,000, victims recovered at sea 210; 2018: immigrants landed 23,370, victims recovered at sea 23; 2019, yesterday: immigrants landed 348, victims recovered at sea one. Less departures, less landings, less deaths. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] Less departures, less landings, less deaths. That's the data. More than open ports, someone was a supporter of open cemeteries and this is not my case: fewer departures, fewer landings, less deaths. As I anticipated, the genesis of the story is essential. The maritime rescue coordination centre of the Italian Harbour Office was informed, on August 14th, of the sighting in Libyan waters of a boat with numerous persons on board that made a route to Malta: towards Malta. On 15 August the vessel was in the area of competence of the Malta Rescue Coordination Centre, which took over the coordination of the event. At 10.35 a.m. Malta informed Italy that, at the moment, it was limited to monitoring the status of the vessel. Later, two Maltese boats led the boat to divert the route towards Italy. These objective circumstances are confirmed, in effect, by the statements made, moreover, also by one of the present on the boat, which declares: the Maltese have expressly said that they would never take us to Malta. They followed us and left us in the direction of Italy, making us change course. You tell me if it is a worthy behaviour of a Member State of the European Union, which then teaches someone else the lessons. However, we will talk about Europe on 26 May. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] On this point, the textual reconstruction of the events of the Palermo Court of Ministers can be clarified. The hijacking (there is even talk of hijacking) imposed by Maltese, to the obvious end of pushing the boat into Italian waters, has resulted in a considerable lengthening of the crossing because, instead of fifty miles, they had to travel one hundred. And the Mare Ionio ship, which did exactly the same thing between Libya and Italy (putting at risk the lives of the people who think they saved), is exactly like this. In this document there is the reconstruction, that rightly must be to the records, with timetables, Harbour office, Guard of finance useful to understand how the ship Diciotti, 18 and 19 August, arrived to Lampedusa. This is because we help everyone and because I will never be the Minister, the man or the member of the Government who lets die without moving a single finger one person in the Mediterranean Sea: never one person. Let us all be clear about that. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and Senator Tiraboschi.]] We saved. We've got help. We cured. We fed. We have opened a dispute: waters of another sovereign country, commitments made at the European Council. Then we start with phone calls, with written minutes, with written notes of the Italian representation, of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the Ministry of the Interior, so much so that, at the end of the story, we had managed to involve, just the day when the news of the trial arrived to me, Ireland, Albania, the Italian Episcopal Conference and other European countries. It is clear and evident, in fact (and it is to the record) that those four days of stay in an Italian port waiting for disembarkation, having sent down all those who had to go down, have served, in the Italian public interest and respecting the dictates of the Constitution that speaks of a sovereignty of our country in case of failure on the part of the others, to awaken someone who, evidently, was sleeping. So, those four days were decisive, but not enough for someone, apparently. Adhering to a request of 19 August (and there is a verbal note, they are not words: it is all in writing), the Director-General for Internal Affairs of the European Commission convened, for the following 21 August, a meeting (held three days later, on 24 August) and in those hours the problem resolved, without exposing to any risk the guests of the ship Diciotti. We wanted to involve the international community that, until a month earlier, did not move a finger and we succeeded. And the numbers that I took you to testify earlier seem obvious to me. Even, the Harbour office, in writing, had spoken of a war with Malta. Therefore, more national public interest, more respect for the rights provided by the Italian Constitution in this case could not be exercised, from my point of view. I repeat the fact that Diciotti has docked in Catania; this fact cannot subvert the legal principle of responsibility and the burden of primary reception in others, as we have always done. Only to the outcome of the meeting, to the end convened, the Harbour office has advanced formal request of safe port, quickly released, and, in the night between 25 and 26, the migrants have been disembarked and then transferred via land to the hotspot of Messina. In the more part of the conclusion of the negotiation, the Italian State has also started wide-ranging contacts to involve other countries in the redistribution of immigrants, as expected are not in the government contract, but also in the government program and in the common sense that is inherent in each of us. The whole reconstruction is entirely in line with the observations of the Attorney of the Republic of Catania, whom I would like to thank because, just today, while we are here to discuss, thanks to the joint action of Forces of the Order and the judiciary, 14 arrests of members of a mafia clan for drug trafficking and arms have been made. Ministers pass, the Forces of Order and the healthy judiciary, in Italy, remain, fortunately. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] And so thank you, because they do their job. The same prosecutor of the Republic of Catania emphasized how in the case that concerned me a power was exercised in the national public interest, as such indispensable by a criminal court. This is in the record. It should also be noted that management, monitoring and control of migratory flows appear obviously closely related to the national interest, also having clear profiles relating to public order and security, as well as to the security of the Republic, as underlined by the Director-General of the Security Information Department, which on 13 June 2018 emphasized the absolute centrality of the jihadist threat on the security agenda of the whole world. Nor should the possibility of migratory flows representing the vehicle for the arrival in Italy of persons infiltrated for the purpose of violent action be underestimated. I cite for example only three cases of species that concern the Bengali citizen Yasin Khan, landed in Italy in October 2016 from Libya, later placed in a structure of reception of the Brescian, then investigated for apology of terrorism and subjected to protective custody in prison; I emphasize the case of the Gambian citizen Landin Toray, landed in our country in 2017, resident in a reception structure for asylum seekers near Naples, who took an oath of fidelity to the Caliphate, suspected of belonging to the Islamic State; last I remember the case of the Gambian citizen Sillah Osman, disembarked from the Mediterranean, applicant for international protection and arrested for the crime of participation in the terrorist organization called Islamic State. It is therefore clear that the issue of migration flows and the management of migratory flows, especially those from Libya and Tunisia, are clearly related to security, public order and the protection of public order in our country, which are the responsibility of an interior minister, not brilliant, but normal. I would like to confirm to this House, in conclusion, that the Government of which I am honoured to be Vice-President and Minister of the Interior has developed since its inception with clear and unanimous determination - and I thank the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars for that, because things are done in two ways. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Ironic applause from Senator Collina]] - measures and actions aimed at combating irregular migratory flows and the business of human trafficking in the Mediterranean which, according to intelligence services, had come to make more of drug trafficking and arms trafficking. So those who are helping to stop human trafficking are also helping those who are fighting drugs and arms trafficking, because the illegal immigration business itself in arms and drugs reinvests its proceeds and me and the government I honor to be part of will never be complicit in drug traffickers and arms traffickers. Let this be clear and obvious to all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Group]] The results of this Government's determined political action are before everyone's eyes: just know how to read the numbers. This is an extraordinarily positive dynamic, symptomatic of a structural reversal of the trend, fostered by choices taken both on the domestic and on the international side. The execution of the rescue by Italy, as mentioned above, in the Maltese SAR area should have obliged that State - as on other occasions - to assume responsibility for the event and to welcome immigrants. I note that the Italian State, while intervening as a substitute to save immigrants from a certain shipwreck and guaranteeing them every level of assistance, has finally brought to the attention of European partners the problems related to rescue and recovery operations and their follow-up. In the context of an international dispute that had to be resolved immediately, in the legitimate exercise of its national sovereignty, and I hope that no one in this House - representing each of us 60 million Italians [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] - have difficulty in recognizing the concepts of homeland and national sovereignty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] That's why Italians pay my salary: to defend the borders and security of my country. As I said, a dispute that had to be resolved in the legitimate exercise of its sovereignty and in the context of equality and full respect for the principles of solidarity inherent in the relations of cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. Finally, I cannot accept that the implementation of the government's direction in this matter, underlined by the President of the Council of Ministers Giuseppe Conte in the information given to this Senate Assembly on 12 September, is in itself evidence of a prominent public interest, represented by the safeguarding of order and security, which would have been put at risk - and will be put at risk - in the event of an uncontrolled access of immigrants to the territory of the Italian State. Therefore, I am speaking with the utmost serenity to your assessment that - I am sure - will be taken in the interest of Italy, in respect of the State and its powers. I remember well the words with which I swore at the moment when he took office as Minister: I swore to be faithful to the Republic, to loyally observe the Constitution and the laws of the State and to exercise my duties in the exclusive interest of the nation. It is with this spirit that I have always acted as Minister of the Interior, respecting my duties and the will of the sovereign people. Dear colleagues, I love Italy, I love my children, I love my work; I consider myself a lucky boy. I thank the good Lord and the Italians for the honor of power... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I thank the good God and the Italians for the honour of being able to defend my country and my children with my work, which I think I do with honesty, with common sense, with courage. However you vote, I thank you and be sure that I will continue to do my job without any fear, otherwise I would do another job. For Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] BITI (PD). What job? This isn't work! Go to work! Mr Marcucci (PD). President, time is up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the Minister finish. Senator Marcucci, you know the Rules of Procedure better than I do, so don't protest for the time. You know him better than I do: I can set the time I think up to 30 minutes, okay? Mr Marcucci (PD). Bravo! Congratulations. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Relax the friends on the left who have gone through their time. I will spare this House and the Italians two minutes because I would simply like to conclude that, by loving Italy, by loving my children, by loving the children of the Italians, I dedicate my life to this beautiful country. Thank you very much. [[The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group stand up. Live applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI groups. Congratulations very much. Comments from the PD Group. Senator Salvini returns to the government desks.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u37	The debate is closed. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I call the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri. Mr Gasparri, rapporteur. Mr President, we are waiting for this House to come together, as is normal in these cases. Mr Grimani (PD). That's a good switch. AIROLA (M5S). But you've been in government together! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't talk to each other. Stop it. We must continue the discussion and I do not like that there is a bang and a response, among other things outside the microphones. You do not have the floor and disturb the House. I call the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u38	Mr President, I think that a reply is needed to reiterate the legal and constitutional reasons which led the rapporteur, with a largely prevailing vote by the Junta, to propose to the House that it refuse to allow us to proceed. I have listened to almost all the speeches made by my fellow Members and have heard interesting but many times political reasons. I have also realized - and it is no fault of anyone - that not everyone has read the sixteen pages of the parliamentary act of the report that I had to draw up, and I thank the Offices once again. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] , which have accompanied a complex legal path of in-depth evaluation. I would also like to thank those who will not vote on the report (I am thinking of Senator Malpezzi), who have appreciated the method used. Then, on the merits, opinions are different. In many cases, however, I have seen that colleagues have made legitimate political statements. I myself, when talking about China yesterday, made an explanation of vote for my Group, which is very controversial with regard to the Government. Then, after a few minutes, as rapporteur and President of the Council, I made a speech on the basis of the function I had the honour to perform in this parliamentary term and on the basis of the law and the laws in force. Don't other colleagues share government policy? They have questions, questions, motions of mistrust. The Rules of Procedure allow each of us to exercise political criticism in other areas. Here we are talking about a story that has been framed by the rules. I mean, in my reply, that some have also made confusion, because Article 51 of the penal code is not in question here. Act Article 51 of the Criminal Code: The exercise of a right or the fulfilment of a duty imposed by a legal rule or by a legitimate order of the public authority shall exclude punishableness. We're not here in this case. Here we are - as President Casini pointed out earlier - faced with the application of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, because a referendum in 1987 abolished the investigative Commission and the members of the Government were entrusted to the ordinary judiciary. The aforementioned 1989 law regulates this procedure by giving the Assembly its membership - and this is the case where we find ourselves - the possibility of assessing whether or not those requirements of Article 9 (3) of the Constitutional Law of 1989, and whether there are any objections, i.e. there is no authorization to proceed to the trial if there has been - I read literally - a "protection of an interest of the constitutionally relevant State" or "the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government." I have heard in minority reports and speeches things that I do not think are true. Yesterday, Senator Bonino - and I am quoting her for her authority and for her seniority - said that I did not justify in the report the pre-eminent public interest. I sent her a copy of the report, which she had obviously not read, because not only have I explained, in this case, where the pre-eminent public interest is seen, but I have also explained that there is not - colleagues who speak of total impunity - the possibility, according to this law, of giving rise to absolute impunity for the members of the Government. I have also given examples: if a member of the Government takes money because he authorizes a public work, there can be no pre-eminent public interest; if there are irreversible injuries to the rights of the person or a person should die, there is no possibility of protecting a government action, because irreversible injuries would deserve a trial and the satisfaction of private interests would not deserve the rank of protection of the public interest. Read the report! Vote against, but do not deny the truth of the facts and the reasons that have been written with precision and full of details. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have also made examples to the contrary in the report: if there had not been a public interest in the action of Senator Salvini, what would have been the private interest in the specific case? But if there had been a political-party interest, it would have acted for a partisan interest: in the report, ladies and gentlemen - I say this to those who have made critical speeches - I have reported whole passages of the intervention that the President of the Count Council took on 12 September in this House. To those who have said that there is no condominium circular, in which the government has written a letter, I remind you that the President of the Council has come to tell you about his sharing of the government's action in this House. Is that a fact or not? There will be something to be said in Parliament! I say this by distinguishing the political judgements - even my very critical ones, as is well known - on some matters of government, but the assessment is limited to this particular case. Some say that a precedent is created, so they will close the kids in a school and not let them out: we say that this exercise... (Brusio). President, can you interrupt the buzz behind my back? Wait a minute, then I'll get the 30 seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, a moment of attention, you are replying to the rapporteur. Mr Gasparri, rapporteur. Thank you, at least my group colleagues. I was saying that we have also made examples, there is no absolute impunity, I said it before. As regards the other issues of government action, the President-in-Office of the Council made an intervention, so there is the public interest: the negotiation with Malta, which did not grant the POS, the negotiation with the European Union, the meetings, the verbal orders to the representatives who went to Brussels on 24 August, is all written down in the report, so I refrain even from the speeches of the person concerned and others, who also produced documents that we have read. We read the Senate acts, in the first place, that gave us a trace. The President of the Council, even before and after, had spoken on the lines of government immigration policy and therefore the public interest, as I write in the report, was also represented by an attempt to give more rigorous and correct regulation of the management of migratory flows. It is a public interest, it can be politically shared or not. There is no absolute need for any behavior and we have motivated the existence of the claims. We therefore believe that the report can absolutely be adopted by the whole House, because there are also no personal interests, there are no party interests, because the speeches made by the President-in-Office of the Council have been there. With regard to the concerns about order and security, the report mentions what, again in this case, Minister Salvini's memory is said: the National Committee of Public Order, when it traditionally meets, in Ferragosto, had highlighted the danger of infiltration within the voyages organized by the scafisti. One might object: and who were the dangerous ones on that ship? If you don't identify them and you don't recognize people, you don't know it before. They don't go around with a badge written on "I'm a terrorist and I'm coming to Italy." I don't think that's how it works. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As far as the limitation of rights is concerned, we have also assessed the balance between compressed rights, not cancelled, not reset irreversibly, and security requirements. We have also recalled international acts, which allow checks, controls, detentions of foreigners, if they enter illegally in Italy. Those of Diciotti were taken to Messina in the hotspot and to Rocca di Papa: they had not chosen where to go, getting on that bus. With regard to public order concerns, I quote "Il Fatto Quotidiano" - think a little - of 3 March 2019, so this year: "Without NGOs fewer risks of importing illegality". The Newspaper Fact publishes an article on a report to the Parliament of the Secret Services. I don't know if the Secret Service is in vain, but if I were Minister, I'd be concerned about the secret service reports to the government and Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You could say a lot of other things, but I don't want to waste my time, dear President. I have not heard from the speeches any arguments that have led the rapporteur to change his mind or to change his report. There has been talk of balancing rights, of the needs of prime public interest. I am sorry that Senator Bonino is not there, she will be reading the report I gave her yesterday, because she said that I had not motivated her: learning to read is necessary, because you may not agree, but do not deny the evidence. We have done a job in Junta and I want to thank all its members, however they think so, because we have deepened the matter. We do not create a precedent: every case - and I hope that there will not be any in the future - is assessed for what it is. So it's useless to say, "but if it happens," "but if it happens." We will see, if this should ever happen, now or in the future, but we have also given examples to the contrary: we have written the cases in which we could never grant permission, because we know that the work that the Senate is doing in recent weeks and that the Junta has done has its relevance. There are no recent precedents of such great importance, so we have written and weighed words and acts so that they do not create misunderstandings and could be usefully used in the future, where such cases should be repeated; this, not to create precedents, because if cases were repeated they would still be judged. I say this to answer the toto quiz if this happens and if the students close, etc. For the rest - and I have concluded, Mr President - I also address the many lawyers who have confused, outside Parliament, between Article 51 of the Criminal Code and Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, and to whom we will reply elsewhere. We have, in fact, read everything and more, invented things, false things. We are here to apply a state law, a constitutional law, Article 96 of the Constitution, and the rapporteur has given reasons to this House, which I hope will be shared. I therefore hope that the report I have proposed will be adopted in order to deny the authorization to proceed with the Senator Salvini. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u39	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo scientifico - classico - Giuseppe Stampacchia', Tricase, in the province of Lecce, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u40	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, Senator Salvini has spoken behind my back and now I see him before me, as Minister, on the benches of the Government, even if he is here for a ministerial crime, so perhaps it would have been better if he had remained in his place, in the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, we have appreciated this participation in the work of this House. There is no doubt that Minister Salvini deliberately chose to pursue the objectives of the Government in contempt of the rights of the 177 shipwrecked on board the Diciotti: more ministerial than that! [[Brusio.]] Mr President, may I ask for a moment of silence or, at least, for a lower tone? [[Recalls of the President]] Was this sacrifice necessary in the name of a prominent, unbearable public interest? The answer is no. While recognizing the wider degree of autonomy of the Government in the determination of its action and the means necessary to absolve it, it is evident that it is always and in any case subordinate to the pre-eminent public interest, which asserts itself in compliance with the Constitution and its fundamental principles. The practical and daily adherence to the constitutional dictation is a legal, political and moral obligation of every citizen and, in particular, of those who serve the institutions. None of the arguments in defence of the Minister's work, in my opinion, appears to be well founded. He told us there's only one dead in 2019. According to the International Organization for Migration, 153 people died in 2019: obviously this data does not reach the Ministry. The percentage of deaths increased from 3.4 percent in 2018, to 11.5 percent in 2019. In short, the crossing has never been as dangerous as today and these are incontrovertible data. In addition, there has been talk of international controversy: I think that there is too much emphasis on the problem with Malta. It is true that Malta's behavior has been detestable in all respects and also from a moral point of view, but it was not an international dispute. It was a question of enforcing what President Conte had achieved at a previous meeting of the European Council, namely voluntary participation in the redistribution of migrants. This emerges from the acts, but also from the admissions of Minister Salvini himself. The order not to land the shipwrecked was issued to put pressure on the other Member States of the European Union, which should have voluntarily taken over the distribution of migrants. It is therefore clear that the Diciotti case is being used, well before the docking in Catania, in order to obtain forcefully what was to be a voluntary accession of the other countries of the European Union. The attempt to overcome the Dublin Regulation in favour of policies that provide for different patterns of distribution at European level of migrants is certainly acceptable and legitimate, we are fully aware of this and we fully marry this policy at European level. To put political pressure on Europe or, more correctly, moral coercion, in order to change the regulations - because it is the Dublin Regulation that you must try to change at European level - by keeping human beings on board an Italian ship, it is quite illegitimate. Other arguments put forward by the rapporteur are not shared. It certainly does not find that the boat can be considered as a safe place, because shipwrecks have been seized beyond the time strictly necessary to proceed to the disembarkation on the mainland, where it must complete the procedure of rescue at sea. This is a clear violation of international conventions, which constitute rules of primary rank and of significant constitutional interest, pursuant to Articles 2, 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution. It has been said that they were refurbished, treated and assisted. So, Minister, we can say that the cruise is over, as is the racket. Nor is it acceptable to accept the view that the right to freedom of movement, rather than to freedom of the individual, is compressed. Personal freedom is solemnly recognised and protected by Article 13 of the Constitution; freedom of movement is also provided for in Article 16 of the Constitution and no evidence of the health and safety reasons which could have limited it has been produced. Our Constitution also provides that "No restriction can be determined by political reasons" while it was precisely the Minister who motivated his action with political reasons, thus putting himself, in fact, even if he wished to assume the thesis of the compression of freedom of movement, outside of Article 16 of the Constitution. It is therefore clear that even in the reconstruction of the rapporteur there is a complete confusion between the right to the immediate landing of shipwrecks and the mandatory identification procedures, or a later stage, concerning the land management of migrants. They become migrants, but first they are shipwrecked who have to land. Those of Mr Salvini also appear to be weak justifications, to the point that even in the first part of his report the rapporteur felt that he should take this into account. Perhaps the consequences were not clear even to the directly concerned, as evidenced by the difference, for example, between the boldness with which he opened the judicial communications of the court, live on Facebook, and the legal composure of the letter to the Further justifications concern the protection of public order and the defense of borders, but just remember that the shipwrecked were already in Italian territory. Minister, Article 4 of the Criminal Code states that Italian ships are considered as the territory of the Italian State. This applies, incontrovertibly, to every ship flying the Italian flag, let alone to a military ship like the Diciotti. Moreover, how could they represent a danger to the public order of the unarmed people, strongly tried for days and days of navigation, fleeing from wars, rapes and violence, under armed surveillance of our Navy and who could not escape? I remember, in fact, that you are placed the lookouts around the ship Diciotti and organized the armed surveillance on the ship. It was then said that there were terrorist infiltrations. Although we share the general concern, we cannot fail to note that in this case there were 177 shipwrecked in custody of the Italian authorities, almost totally coming from Eritrea, that is from a country for which the acceptance of possible requests for international protection is foreshadowed. Neither the judicial authority, the competent anti-terrorist bodies, nor the secret services that have been summoned have seen a real danger of terrorist infiltration into the Diciotti. Let's say that the people have all been identified already on board and the data has been transmitted by the Agrigento Public Prosecutor to the police and nothing has been detected even in the preliminary phase. Do you really want to justify kidnapping on that basis? Then why did the shipwrecks, shortly after the landing, escape? Have we entrusted ourselves to countries that had offered themselves for the reception of the likely terrorists? Did we also give terrorists to the Italian Bishops' Conference? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please finish. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Finally, the rapporteur's arguments regarding the governmental value of the so-called Diciotti case are in open conflict with the defensive memory. President Gasparri has shifted the entire ownership of the Government's actions and policies over the President of the Count Council, but we know that each Minister is individually responsible for the acts of his Dicastery. I promise in my explanation of vote that I will make further arguments. However, Minister Salvini did not answer an essential question: what pre-eminent public interest would not have been protected if the 177 shipwrecked had landed and had waited at the hotspots for the decision of the other countries of the European Union on the voluntary reception of migrants? We didn't get an answer. They could stay on the ground and not stay on the ship. It is also curious to say that we can go beyond what Parliament has established...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u42	President Grasso, I invite you to conclude. You were inflexible, as President of the Senate: you always took the floor. I do not do that, but I would ask you to respect your time too. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az groups and government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to point out that you have allowed others to move forward in this debate, including with regard to the holding of the majority report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u44	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u45	Mr Grasso, minority rapporteur. Let's say that Law No. 124 of 3 August 2007, on the subject of secret services, established that taking actions aimed at endangering or harming life, physical integrity and personal freedom is not allowed even in the name of the supreme public interest of national security. The ridge on which we are moving is therefore very dangerous. For these reasons, the Minister should not stray from the judgment of the judiciary (take good care: to the judgment, not to the condemnation). [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator De Falco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u46	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator De Falco.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u47	Mr President, the matter we are dealing with today, in fact, as has been said, in terms of political exploitation begins well before 20 August. However, the Court of Ministers noted that from 20 to 25 August there would be a fact that could be confiscated, in accordance with Article 605 of the penal code; and that is and only that which we should be interested in here, nothing else. Here we have to deal with a specific question that the judiciary asks us: the Court of Ministers of Catania; we have to deal with nothing else. The perimeter of our speech is very important, because otherwise our expression could be shared by other institutions. Our judgment is indisputable, provided it is consistent, non-controversial and relevant. For this reason it is important to verify that the decision to block the chain of command that was to lead to the mandatory indication of the POS is clearly the responsibility of Minister Salvini for his own admission, as well as - even more clearly - the adoption of the prohibition of disembarkation, which has compressed in a clear and unlawful manner, according to the court, the personal freedom of the shipwrecks, which have been detained without reason on the ship Diciotti, freedom that, as has been said, is expressly guaranteed by Article 13 of the Constitution. I am only doing one thing here and I am addressing the Government: it is to be stigmatized that this behavior is useless, because obviously we do not know what is being done. I speak of useless because those people, aboard an Italian military ship, in Italian inland waters, were in Italy. What would have changed if those people, already photographed on board, had been allowed to land? Nothing would have changed at all; it would have been possible to proceed in order to identify them and to collect their possible requests and nothing of everything we are discussing today would have happened. It was totally free violence. In order to justify the Minister's choice and its consequences, the majority's report adventures into questionable theories and considers it impossible for there to be a ministerial offence when there is an irreversible injury to fundamental rights. According to the report, there would be an irreversible injury to fundamental rights when the hypothetical injury to the rights affected is so serious that it alters the very nature of the crime. So what do you do? A hierarchy of fundamental rights is created that does not exist; a hierarchy of fundamental rights is created between life, health and personal freedom, as if personal freedom were not also moral freedom, it is not also an understanding freedom that holds to life. This reasoning then is misleading. There's a lot to say. I merely point out that with this reasoning - perhaps it has already been mentioned - we will not be able to punish any assumption of seizure that has as it were the good end, perhaps after payment of the ransom. It's just nonsense. The right to life must not be understood as the right to biological life, but as the right to freedom of the person in the full sense. Nor does Law No. 124 of 2007 on secret services, now referred to by President Grasso, which provides for a special justification in Article 17 where it states that: It is not punishable by the personnel of the security information services who place them under the law as a criminal offence, lawfully authorised from time to time as indispensable to the institutional purposes of such services.......................................................................................................................... The law also goes on to state that such a special cause of justification does not apply if the conduct provided for by the law as a crime constitutes crimes aimed at endangering or harming the life, physical integrity, individual personality, personal freedom, moral freedom, health or safety of one or more persons; personal freedom is therefore excluded. Not even for Law No 124 of 2007 there can therefore be a valid reason; national security is therefore not conceivable as a valid reason to derogate from the inviolable rights of the person. It was said yesterday by Senator Pillon that the place of safety (POS) could be a place, like the ship itself, where the shipwrecked were rescued. Senator Pillon said so in English, reading a small part of the resolution (he called it convention, but it is a resolution) MSC 167(78). This is the resolution adopted by Maritime Safety Committee which has that to see with the authentic interpretation of the conventions that, as we have said yesterday, bind the State and therefore also the national legislator. The purpose of this resolution is to relieve the master of the ship from his obligations corresponding to the obligations of the Contracting Government of Coordination and Cooperation in relieving the master. The resolution states that: • The obligation of the master to render assistance should complement the corresponding obligation of IMO member governments... •. The part that Mr Pillon refers to, to the contrary, is in paragraph 6.14 of this resolution. Senator Pillon recalled that: "A place of safety may be on land, or it may be aboard a rescue unit..." True, it says so: the place of safety may be on the ground, but it may also be on board a ship. However, the sentence ends by saying: "Until the survivals are disembarked to their next destination," until the shipwrecked have landed at their next destination. It is even clearer from paragraph 6.13 above of resolution MSC 167(78) (and these are the rules that we must respect, this is the POS), which states that a ship in assistance should not be considered a place of safety. Even if the ship is capable of safe logistics and shipwrecks can be temporarily placed on the ship: it should be relied of this responsibility as soon as alternative arrangements can be made. This means that they must be brought to the ground as soon as possible, as stated in the resolution in its initial part. Finally, I cannot fail to make a real appeal to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, not only calling them back to their battle of principle for the abolition of the prerogative of immunity, but because in this case it is not a question of applying a functional prerogative: it is a hateful privilege free from any objective criterion. That is why I hope that they, as I know, will vote for free men and women. [[Brusio. Comments of Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u48	I invite the senators who are standing in the middle of the hemicycle to go to their seats, so as not to disturb the senator who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u49	De Falco, minority rapporteur. I would like to remind you, among other things, that we are voting on a report which, in the criteria of judgment, is not at all different from that of 13 February last, in which it was read that there would be no objective criterion, nor would it be necessary to refer to it, in order to assess the pre-eminent public interest, being sufficient for the Minister to represent him as such. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. De Falco, minority rapporteur. President Gasparri's first report also launched a thesis which should be cited as follows: In this regard, it is noted that the autonomy of the function of government also presupposes autonomy in the choice of means and not only of the purposes to be pursued. In practice, a dangerous Machiavellism was evoked that would allow the use of whatever means the Government considered useful in order to achieve an end it itself set. I shall conclude, and I also hope that I have received a minimum of listening from my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the European Parliamentary Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u53	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, like all citizens, Ministers, if they commit crimes in the performance of their duties, must respond to justice, whatever the political motivations behind their actions. The only case where it is possible to avoid the process is that Parliament, with indisputable judgment, considers that it does not grant authorization to proceed. It is true for all the ministers of any government, present and future: it is necessary to keep this in mind. In this case the refusal of authorization to proceed would open up dangerous authoritarian drifts, in order to avoid which the Constituents have placed in the first articles of the Constitutional Charter the indispensable principles of inviolability of human rights. If any Minister were allowed to violate the law with impunity through acts of a political nature, without the judiciary being able to put it to trial, it would give rise to a dangerous precedent: the risk would be to provide, in the future, a justification for any crime in the name of a political end. The delicate task of the Senate is exquisitely to judge the means used and the purposes they wanted to pursue; to a wise and thorough contemplation between the goods protected by the violated norms and the means used by the Minister to implement the policy of his Government. Minister Salvini has certainly put in place a behaviour in violation of international and national norms and has, according to the court of the Ministers of Catania, abused the functions attributed to the Minister of the Interior placing arbitrarily his veto to the indication of the POS, determining thus the forceful permanence of the shipwrecks aboard the Diciotti, with consequent illegitimate deprivation of their personal freedom for a legally appreciable period of time and certainly outside of the cases allowed by law. The reasons for the seizure are outside technical assessments. The order has been given for reasons connected with the ongoing negotiations in Europe: as already mentioned, almost a seizure for the purpose of coercion, as defined by Article 289-b of the Criminal Code, which even provides for very serious penalties. A great country does not use as hostages for an international negotiation a military ship, its crew and the shipwrecked saved. There is no doubt that Malta's behavior was despicable but it does not appear that Italy has raised any international dispute in the appropriate fora. There is no doubt that the security of the country must be a priority, but in this case there is no threat to public order and security, as evidenced by the fact that no administrative or judicial action has been taken against the shipwrecked, once they have come to the ground. What emergency, what catastrophe would have struck our country? What pre-eminent public interest would not have been protected if the 177 shipwrecked had landed and had awaited the decisions of the other countries of the European Union at the hot spots? What article in the Constitution authorized Minister Salvini to prevent the landing? No one. The Constitution, on the contrary, in Articles 2 and 10, defends fundamental rights that cannot be renounced as well as that of personal freedom. There is no doubt that the Minister acted outside the aims of the exercise of the power conferred on him by the law because political choices cannot reduce the scope of the obligations of States to ensure, in the most prompt manner, the rescue and the landing of shipwrecks in a safe place, obligations deriving from international conventions and constituting a precise limitation to the legislative power of the State in accordance with Articles 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution. The decisions of the Constitutional Court also pointed out that political discretion in the management of migratory phenomena could never conflict with the Constitution and the international treaties. It follows that the Minister's decision finds no justification but, on the contrary, openly conflicts with the protection of constitutionally relevant interests. Every expression of political direction and government cannot, in fact, have a detrimental capacity for individual subjective situations, having to submit to the supreme principle of legality and having its counterweight prince in the Constitution and inviolable rights indicated therein, including - I repeat once again - the right to personal freedom. The preeminent public interest is in some way similar to the concept of reason of state, which, however, rightly finds its limit in the guarantee of the inviolable rights of the human person. On this point, as I have already explained, Article 17 of Law No 124 of 2007 on the security information services of the Republic is illuminating. According to this article, the conduct envisaged by law as an offence intended to endanger the life, physical integrity and personal freedom of one or more persons, not even for the defence of national security, cannot be authorised or justified. The objectives of combating trafficking in human beings and sharing responsibility with other European countries are legitimate but it will not escape that what it finds here is only the way in which the Minister of the Interior intended to achieve them. If he had wished to raise the issue of the equitable distribution of migrants in each European country, he could and should have done so in the appropriate fora, after having them landed, as provided for in international conventions. The identification of the POS is entrusted to the Ministry of the Interior and not to the Government. The omission of that act was a specific personal responsibility of the Minister. At nothing, except to justify today's vote on the outside, they note the successive positions taken by President Conte and ministers Di Maio and Toninelli. In court, the facts and behaviour of Minister Salvini were evaluated by several magistrates (it was also said by Minister Salvini himself). The court of ministers of Catania has considered to identify a hypothesis of crime and correctly stopped, addressing the Senate. It is up to us, therefore, to decide not whether the Minister is guilty or innocent but whether or not he should be subject to judicial review. It is therefore necessary to focus on two profiles: the first is that of relevance, the second is that of prominence. The constitutional legislator seems, with these adjectives, to suggest that the balance of the values at stake, for the purposes of granting or refusing authorisation, should be resolved in favour of the protection of the highest values of our State. And what are the highest values of our Constitutional Charter, if not the recognition and guarantee of the inviolable rights of man? To overturn order, to give priority to other interests than inviolable rights, such as that of constitutionally protected life and freedom, would mean to admit a new, but dangerous, conception of the reason of state. Fundamental rights must never be compressed for political needs. Keeping people in a place without a reasoned act of the judicial authority constitutes a criminal offence, which must be subject to the judgment of the judiciary. By voting against the authorization to proceed, a serious and dangerous precedent is created, which deeply undermines the very meaning of our democracy and its complex yet balanced system of weights and counterweights, of protecting the inviolable rights of the person. By bending the Constitution to the contingent needs of this Government, we are about to erase centuries of law and over seventy years of republican history. Today's for the shipwrecks of the Diciotti, but tomorrow's for anyone. With the right and with the fundamental rights you don't mess with. The political conveniences of the moment, perhaps hidden behind the vote of a handful of supporters through a private web platform, cannot subdue the legal culture and the protection of the Constitution to partisan interests. Nobody is surprised if, as a citizen, I hope that the Minister for the Interior of the Italian Republic will be considered innocent in relation to the crime he is accused of. As a senator, however, I believe it is essential that the judiciary should establish it and that the Senate Assembly reaffirms the principle of separation of powers. Therefore, it is proposed to grant permission to proceed against Minister Salvini, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution and Article 9 (4) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 89. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u56	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I had prepared a speech mentally, but Mr Salvini's speech, preceded by the reply of the President of the Council, makes it unnecessary to deal with this issue from a technical, legal and even human point of view. I thought then of completely changing my speech and trying to do what I think is right, and I think, intelligently, Mr Salvini did not do. I shall respond, that is, to the objections that some of this House, particularly the Democratic Party and the Left, have made with a legitimate sequence of speeches which led us, even late at night (I presided), to listen to the same subject repeated; this is typical of a strictly political affair, but less suitable for an affair in which Parliament and, in particular, the Senate are called to perform a judicial function. The first and great objection of the left was: "Dear Salvini, you must defend yourself in the trial, before the judges. You don't have to defend yourself here from trial. But the trial is here, ladies and gentlemen: the law gives the Senate a judicial task today. It gives us the task of deciding whether or not there is the overriding public interest in the exercise of government action in what Minister Salvini has committed on behalf of the whole Government, as can be seen abundantly from the words of the President of the Council in this House - I will not repeat them - which certainly constitute a line of government. The first objection seems to me then overcome; it was useless to stay here until midnight, this answer was enough. But you also said that this is a clash between those who support the Government and those who do not want the Government: wrong. We are not a majority, we do not support the government. If we had to stick to what we did, we would need to create very much weeds, see Salvini sent to trial and blow up the government, which is one of the objectives of our political movement; but it is a political objective that has nothing to do with what we do today in the judicial phase. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We shall then vote in accordance with the instructions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, unlike our party interests (and this is why your objection also fails). Senator Grasso, prosecutor, then judge, anti-Mafia prosecutor, president of the Senate and today minority rapporteur, who I truly respect (as he knows), clearly said that you cannot compress the inviolable rights, the rights enshrined in the Constitution. For the truth, these rights have been compressed for too long and we have not seen trials against those who have allowed by their own inertia and political action people to die in the sea [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would've been worried about that. These people have been kept for a few days refreshed and cured, landing women, sick or fake minors (because next to some real underage it is peaceful that we have landed people who said they are underage, trusting in their statement). [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We landed them. They landed them. Italy has landed them. Then where is this violation, even if there is no preeminent interest? Where is he? Once you have landed you have the mental reserve to know that they would be free, as they were, because those landed then escaped immediately, dear Senator Fat. How did you control it? Where did they control themselves if they'd all run away? The truth is, they were supposed to be locked up in a guarded center, according to the law. And what more guarded center of the ship, where did they have food, care and what else? But perhaps this is a political assessment that is outside our jurisdictional task. What surprised me about the attitude of those who want to vote against the Junta's proposal, accepted by a majority in this House, is the strenuous defence of the position of the court of Ministers; the judiciary is right, we have to bow to the judiciary. What is Zuccaro? An exponent of Brothers of Italy? Is Zuccaro an exponent of the League? An exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars? Zuccaro is a prosecutor, a probo man, who has freely considered to file for lack and non-susistence of notitia crimes this matter. Yet he is a magistrate and I remember that the left has always had a distracted love for prosecutors and less for judges. If only Zuccaro had said otherwise and the court of ministers had instead taken his position, today we would see him raised to heaven and the court of ministers in the dust. Have balance in these things! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is not just a political assessment of these events. The European Council of 28 June recommended that in order to dismantle human trafficking and to avoid the tragic loss of human lives, all incentives to undertake dangerous journeys should be eliminated. If I had to do one political intervention, I would say that this is the criticism I make to the Government: we need the naval blockade, we really don't have to start them, so we eliminate the problem of disembarkation or failure to land. The words of the European Council bear witness to themselves that there is a certain interest on the part of the State in controlling migratory flows. This is not an inviolable right; it is not an inviolable right to freely enter our country, our country, our home. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is not a right enshrined in the Constitution; on the contrary, it is forbidden! A government that cares about controlling who enters and who does not enter our home is a government that does its duty. You want to try Salvini because he did his duty. That's the truth. Of course, I understand, there are two opposing cultural visions: one is open to any arrival, to the lack of control of any migratory flow because it says that it is inevitable - and it is true - to deal with migratory flows. In fact, it is inevitable to a certain extent: if, for example, France stopped exploiting African peoples, we would already have fewer immigrants. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] If Europe took on the task of helping us, we would already have less. However, assuming that this is inevitable, this does not mean that sovereign governments do not have to have legislation, legislation and security to control and manage these flows. That is the prime interest. I shall conclude, and I thank the President if he gives me a few more seconds, with a slight notation: there is a film that we have all perhaps seen. It's a movie with Tom Hanks, "The Terminal" - do you remember that? - where a citizen of an unspecified country stays inside an airport terminal; he cannot go back, like our migrants, because in his was the revolution; he cannot land because he does not have the cards in order. In that film he is then left for months in the terminal without even assistance, without even health care. D'ARIENZO (PD). But it was a movie! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Do we want to blame the US Government - in such a case - for violating human rights? Nobody thought of that. You would have thought of that. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u59	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting the invitation to be here at such an important time for republican history and the history of parliamentary democracy. Mr Minister, today you have spoken to us about something else, not about what we have to discuss. He told us about his patriotic love - we share and appreciate - as well as about his love for the family and his religion. All this, of course, reassures us, but it has not told us what we need to discuss today. He did not respond to us on the number of increases in landings by any other means proposed by Mr Mirabelli. Today we are discussing something very precise, irrefutable. We must not discuss whether Malta was right or how Malta behaved. The point of discrimination - be careful - has been marked by the court in Palermo, that is, the court that you often cited to summon a filing that there has not been on the substance. The court in Palermo has established very clearly when it begins criminally relevant conduct and has established its incompetence. He established it in such a clear way that he outlined the relevant conducts from which the request of POS and the beginning of a procedure are to be considered valid; from which it is absolutely no longer relevant if Malta had to take charge or not; from which it is Italy, at the time when it helps, that it has the burden and the task of carrying out a rescue operation. Operation that includes not only the provision of the cures - and there would be other -, not only feeding - and there would be other - but it includes the identification of a safe port, the disembarkation and includes - certainly is not eluded or replaced by the operations on board - the identification and the carrying out of all the fulfillments. All this rests on the Italian State, which is such from the ship Diciotti. What boundaries? The Diciotti ship has already been Italian. What protection for 177 persons, including 27 minors and 11 women who had been sexually assaulted? This is what we are discussing, and this is the time dynamic. The truth is that 177 people have been held hostage for several days and today, between a patriotic love, a family concussion, you, Minister, reminded us that those four days - read deprivation of personal freedom guaranteed with double reserve of law of the Constitution, i.e. reserve of provision and order of the judicial authority, to deprive, pursuant to Article 13, a citizen of any nationality of personal freedom - have served to wake up someone with whom he was dealing. That's the comparison. The alleged crime, the kidnapping of a person, served to wake someone up. Please, let us not entertain and confuse ideas with threats of terrorism, jihadist threat or any other kind of general threat. You, Minister, should know very well that a terrorist threat to the Secret Service also involves an obligation, if specified, to report immediately to the judicial authority; and it must be immediate and accurate. Do not tell us about a general terrorist threat, which, if it had been serious, would have had to impose particularly careful surveillance even when the immigrants have landed. On the other hand, this, as we know, has not happened at all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then what are we discussing? Look, President Gasparri's report has cleared the field of all doubt, it is very clear and shows us very clearly what we are discussing. We are debating and deciding whether a means chosen to exert pressure on the European institutions in order to induce them to agree on plans or just as pressure may be not only a blatant violation of a legal provision, but a serious violation of it, namely the violation of personal freedom. There's a very important second passage. We are deciding whether, not the State, but political power, the majority of government between a lawful means and an unlawful means, can freely choose an unlawful means. This is in Senator Gasparri's report. President Gasparri, you are right, it will be a very important case; I do not know if it will be a case of law, but it will certainly be a watershed, because it is the first time that we have not discussed whether there is a private matter or a public matter, but we are discussing for the first time in these classrooms whether political power can be said above the law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are discussing whether it can violate the Constitutional Charter in fundamental rights. This is a leap that has never been in this House. I do not know if it will be a precedent, but it will certainly be an important moment for our democracy. The point is that it has always been claimed with a different bravado and a different animosity from what the Minister has witnessed to us today and has not had the courage, Minister, to be as clear and direct as President Gasparri was when he claimed this power, this conception of the State. I'd like to say a few more things, some fakes that we have to deal with. The first, the issue of terrorism, I have already said. The second is that there was no need or activity to defend the borders: they were already on Italian territory and there was a duty established by law to complete a procedure. There is no government activity or decision that can exempt or turn into a public interest something that cannot be. Firstly, there was no Council of Ministers, secondly, the chronicles of the time testify that there was a very harsh dialectic within the Government. Minister Salvini threatened to resign and the President of the Count Council was tirelessly committed to dissuade him from continuing that course. To justify later, with a policy on migration flows, is absolutely inconsistent. And the President-in-Office of the Council, being also a lawyer, has rightly taken good care of claiming the legitimacy of the means, which is exactly the only thing we are discussing. I would also like to clear the field from the fake of courage and the heroic captain to protect all of us (and arrive at conclusions). I would have expected courage and initiative, for example, towards Orbán, that we would go to Orbán and tell him that the package is over and that now we must share responsibility, take something and share migration policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] No, she was shown strength and vehemence using the suffering of 177 people.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u60	Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u61	Mr Rossomando (PD). I'm finishing. Using eleven women who had suffered sexual violence and who had been assigned the pink code, perhaps today the red code, but perhaps not, because perhaps then the red code would not have been applied. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling that the first speech of a woman's republican democracy in this House has been made by Lina Merlin. It was an important and touching speech in defense and to denounce the killing of a laborer in a strike in Polesine. It was a speech to defend freedom, against the referee of power. To this we call back and appeal. Because here, Mr President, there is no question of a government programme or programme on migration policies; I fear that an unstated part of the government programme is under discussion, i.e. that which has to do with overcoming the liberal democracies. [[Comments of Senator Bonfrisco]] From this point of view, we are defending freedom. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u62	Concludes, because his Group has always vividly recalled the respect of the times, but his Group has always abundantly exceeded it. Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u63	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, we are not discussing an amendment, but we are discussing freedom. [[Applause from the PD Group and ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We are discussing freedom and democracy, let me finish. [[Comments from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] Colleagues 5 Stars...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u64	Stop it. It really ends.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u65	Mr Rossomando (PD). Colleagues 5 Stars, legality is not a jingle... president. Freedom is no foreign concept in this House. Get it done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Let her talk. Mr Rossomando (PD). I'll finish if you let me finish. Freedom and legality are not a jingle of handcuffs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to me, to the presidency. Mr Rossomando (PD). Legality is the power of the powerless. This promise, you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, have betrayed it if you do not vote for this authorization to proceed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u66	Close.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u67	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Rossomando (PD). The Democratic Party will vote against... Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is fifteen minutes of explanation of vote. Come on! You spoke more than four hours. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Rossomando (PD). I can conclude if you don't overlap your voice with mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed, Senator. [[Vivacious protests by Senators Bellanova, Laus and Stefano.]] Stop it, let her finish. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Let her talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, or I'll disable your microphone. Mr Rossomando (PD). If you let me talk. The Democratic Party will vote against the report of President Gasparri, in defence of the freedom of all citizens; that freedom established by the Constitution, which cannot be violated by any majority or even by a Minister, although animated by a patriotic love. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Leu Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u70	TESEI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will try to be brief but to bring the debate back to the subject. I have listened to all the speeches, both in general debate and in explanation of vote. I have to say that the rules of law underlying the issue we are dealing with have been interpreted in very different ways, but very different from their authentic interpretation, and that is what we are called upon to decide today. The Court of Catania, in its report of 7 December 2018, asked the Senate to grant permission to proceed against Minister Matteo Salvini in relation to the offence of kidnapping of aggravated persons, in accordance with Article 9 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has pronounced itself for the acceptance of the proposal formulated by the rapporteur, in the sense of the refusal of the request for authorization to proceed, waiting for the existence, in the case at hand, of the modest pursuit of the pre-eminent public interest, in the exercise of the functions of Government, referred to in article 9, paragraph 3, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. This is the field of action on which the Senate must be called upon to rule. According to this rule, the Senate is called to determine in particular whether the Minister has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest, in the exercise of the function of Government. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic, moreover, has requested the closure of the proceedings against Minister Salvini [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Rizzotti]] , for lack of knowledge of the crime. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] These are the acts and it is really difficult to understand, for those who are accustomed to attending courtrooms from a professional point of view, how no one has referred to this circumstance, which is neither secondary nor of little importance, because it concerns the merit of the matter, the merit of which we certainly do not have to deal with, but which the prosecutor of the Republic has already defined in terms of the unfoundedness of the news of crime. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is written in the report of the Tribunal of Catania-ministerial crime section, on page 2, which excluded the need to assess the political implications that led to the decision to prevent the landing of migrants and to have to verify the reasons that led the Minister to act, as well as the relationship that may exist between the alleged crime and the public interest of the function exercised. This is because these characteristics, according to the Court of Ministers, are not in any case such as to objectively justify the ministerial crime in its legal substance, but could only possibly base the refusal to process. This is the subject we are dealing with. I do not wish to go into the substance of this approach and the proposed distinction, because this is completely irrelevant here. In fact, the Senate can deny the authorization to proceed not only when it doubts the configurability of the crime (and this has clearly told us the same prosecutor of the Republic), but also when, more simply, without expressing itself on the existence of its extremes, it nevertheless considers that one of the hypotheses of so-called political justification mentioned in Article 9 applies. Therefore, for the same reasons, I do not even delay to observe that from the legal point of view probably the right of personal freedom, which according to the accusation would have been illegally compressed with the detention of migrants on the ship Diciotti, even in case of authorization to disembark, would have been conditioned and limits, on the basis of the same laws in force. This is a LaPalissian circumstance and is also reflected in international and European legislation: migrants, however, even once they have landed, as in the case of this case, are then held in the identification centres. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] and this is not a limitation of personal freedom, but it is even a duty imposed by the rules. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] It is important here, more simply, to determine whether the fact that Mr Salvini is being challenged is part of a precise political directive of the Government, which is also shared by all its members. I understand the efforts made by several parties, talking about the absence of a resolution of the Council of Ministers and the lack of a previous or contextual stance to the facts, but here it cannot be denied an absolute evidence of the government's sharing on the action, which concerned the ship Diciotti. [[Applause from Group L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Wolf]] It is then important to consider whether the implementation of this shared political directive should be regarded as being of primary interest to the possible protection of rights, which may have been temporarily compressed with the contested fact. The debate does not involve the substance of that directive. Nor must we determine whether that political directive is right or wrong, correct or inadequate, since the refusal of authorisation to proceed does not include the adoption and confirmation of the directive. We are called exclusively to assess whether, by adventure, the logical link between the contested fact (taking migrants within the ship Diciotti for four days, because this is the end of the dispute) and that directive should be considered as pretentious, arbitrary and illogical, or whether - on the contrary - it has an objective, reasonable and plausible foundation. This is the sense of the question that is entrusted to us, aimed at protecting the political choices of the Government, against possible censorship or barrages by the judiciary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the limit and this is the object on which we must speak. The answer to the question therefore seems quite obvious. Whatever the views on the substance of the political directive, which we all certainly agree with, no one can deny the close logical and congruent link between that directive and the decision not to make migrants land on Italian soil. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Minister Salvini has limited himself to implementing exactly what the whole Government had established in terms of the strategy to counter the phenomenon of irregular migration. In this regard, it is sufficient to refer to the information given to the Senate, on 12 September 2018, by the President of the Council of Ministers, Count, who has reconstructed in detail the phases of the events in relation to the relations with both the Maltese authorities and the European Union. The awareness of Malta's grave non-compliance is now known to all, claimed and reiterated by the magistrates themselves who in their writings and requests even speak of the hijacking carried out by Malta towards the Italian territory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, it's the second step. Does that directive express a prominent public interest over the good that would have been compromised by the contested fact? On this point too, there is no doubt that, as the court has already said, we must not determine whether there is a cause for justification with regard to the crime, which - as I repeat and as I would like to reiterate, since there has been a deafening silence on the point - has been deemed not to exist by the prosecutor of the Republic that has investigated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The prosecutor of the Republic who boarded the Diciotti checked the state in which the migrants were still on board the ship and did not consider that a crime was being committed, otherwise he would have been obliged to prevent it and should have immediately arranged the landing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u71	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u72	TESEI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Not only was this not done by the prosecutor, but there were also visits by many parliamentarians. I'm about to finish. In this respect, it is important to take into account that the law defines the decision we are preparing to take as indispensable. This clearly indicates that the assessment of primacy must not be carried out with legal parameters, instead having to adhere - once again - to the exquisitely political profile, which, by definition, has no legal parameters of control, except through other forms such as those of the inspection union. In conclusion, there is no need for further discussion... Senator, finish. [[Senator Astorre's comments.]] TESEI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let me finish, since everyone has been able to do it. The task that has been put to us is extremely easy. The so-called political justification behind the refusal of authorization to proceed not only does not require that the possible crime be justified, excluding its illegality, but also - on the other hand - that the political choice be shared and justified. In conclusion, the decision to refuse permission to proceed against Minister Salvini ultimately stems from the fact that, if we allowed the judges to judge on the possibility of crime, they would end up judging the political choice of the Government and this, according to the Constitution, cannot be done. For all these reasons... president. I invite you to actually conclude, Senator, or else I'll have to take your word for it. TESEI (L-SP-PSd'Az). For these reasons we shall vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal and the Junta's decision and, therefore, against the refusal to authorise Mr Salvini to proceed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u73	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the mayor of Montecchia di Crosara Edoardo Pallaro, accompanied by representatives of the municipal administration, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u76	SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote against the request for permission to proceed with Mr Salvini. Personally, Minister, I am convinced that you did not commit the crime provided for in Article 605 of the Criminal Code, because the objective of the crime is to strike at the voluntary and arsonous deprivation of personal freedom, while in the case of which we are dealing, the essential rights of survival and health, combined with the need to protect a higher interest of the country, were first assured. It is clear that, in such a situation, the balance must be struck between the compression and the oppression of the law, but in my opinion, in this particular case, as you yourself said in your speech, the need to open a concrete dispute with Europe prevails. The photograph I'm showing, President Conte, had given us hope. It is a photograph of 30 June 2018, in which you are immortalized together with President Macron as he extends to Brussels to try to reach an agreement on immigration policy. That understanding was then a hole in the water, because everything was returned to the voluntary nature of relocations and, therefore, to the goodwill of a Europe that has been and continues to be cynical, ingenious and prejudiced closed to all forms of solidarity. There was therefore no crime and Article 1 of Law No 1 of 1989. Minister Salvini, you have defended the interest of the State, and I tell you with extreme serenity, although probably, given our culture and sensitivity, we would have moved in a different political dynamic. Here, however, we are obliged to evaluate the best interest of the country, which you have taken forward and which you have assured. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, it is clear that we cannot look elsewhere: the issue of the lack of human rights exists throughout the Libyan and sub-Saharan areas. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is a state of terror that we cannot and must not ignore. Then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister for the Interior, Italy will make its voice heard in the international forum for a verification of the existence or not of human rights throughout that territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not enough just patrollers, it is not enough only bilateral attention: it is necessary to raise the shot on what is happening in that territory, where so many men and women are massacred and tortured and even entrust to boats, in the hands of the traffickers you rightly oppose, children and minors, in the hope of a better future. This is a reality that we must oppose and I believe that the Italian Government has a duty to bring this issue, a verification and an inspection to the nearest international session of the UN. I must say that we do, however, unfortunately, at a time when our country is experiencing a crisis of international credibility. I do not want to, but beyond your undisputed legal powers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at this moment you are not the political direction of the country because it is a continuous mediator between two political forces which are on completely different lines in terms of international and economic policy. We saw it on the Maduro affair, against which one party supports the dictator Maduro, the other majority party opposes it; but we also saw it on the F-35, as well as on the approach to openness to China: should we be invaded by the Chinese market or will we try to invade the Chinese market? They are two dialectically opposed positions, where there is no clarity, nor has this Parliament been able to express its views on these future pacts. Not to mention the FTA, on which, Mr President-in-Office, Italy is in real danger of losing all form of international credibility. I appreciated his marvellous legal capacity as well as his political ability to resolve a crisis that was behind the doors on that weekend, but the problem of the credibility and maintenance of international agreements, which is the cornerstone of a country's credibility, is open: what are we going to do with the TAV? Are we gonna make this happen? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not just a question of cost-benefits, but of the credibility of the commitments made in the international forum. The development must look beyond the ridiculous aseptic cost-benefit analysis of which Minister Toninelli told us when he set up in the 8th Commission where he began by saying that they would not carry out large works and would all submit them to the cost-benefit analysis, blocking public investment of 30%. With regard to the crisis of international credibility, we have a Vice President of the Council who, during the post-vote crisis, threatens the President of the Republic of impeachment and who meets the leaders of the yellow vests that massacre and focus France, Paris, in protest against a democratically existing republic. Therefore, the issue that I would like to put to the President of the Council more than to Minister Salvini is the danger of not being credible and paying the price of political choices of wrong economic character, because the stalemate is also happening in the lack of growth of the country due to the conflict of two economic policies: that of Movimento 5 Stars, which looks to the State as a provider of public contributions to the unemployed, those who do not have work and the weak, and another policy that sees the solution of this problem with growth, with productive expenditure, that which Europe asks us and that we have not assured them; the Europe that has imposed even safeguard clauses for 23 billion instead of 13 because it does not trust us. We are going to check, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the devastating data: we have industrial production which has collapsed by 12%, the spread has gone from 120 to 240, the tax burden will increase by 0.4 per cent, the public debt has increased to 2.308 billion, reaching the maximum historical level; we have already talked about the safeguard clause and the failure to respect the one per cent growth forecast indicated by the maneuver will lead to corrective action. The problem is whether such an alliance, based on two visions of the development of different societies, can last a long time. Mr Salvini, I have experienced the experience of the Prodi government, which was legitimately wanted by the voters and which had assembled different party realities (from Mr Turigliatto to Mr Dini); that executive had a short life, because politics made its choices, that is, the system stalled and the economy did not grow. I fear - and I say this in the interest of the country without any personal controversy - that this Government, based on a contract and not on a coalition, on a homogeneous alliance, on a platform of shared values, may risk causing enormous damage to the country. I say this in full serenity, in full consciousness, with full responsibility. Mr President, the centre-right is a value, not a palace formula. It is a historical and spontaneous aggregation of a people that has been recognized in a great liberal and reformist alliance, which places the individual and not the State at the centre of society. This is the liberal philosophy of Forza Italia that has always transmitted to us Silvio Berlusconi and that infuses us daily with his commitment and with the future descent on the field. We were tolerant when we were in the government, but we were also rigorous, Minister for the Interior. In fact, I would like to remind you that when we were in the government in 2002, with the Minister of Justice Castelli, and in 2008, with the Interior Minister Maroni, under the leadership of Berlusconi we stabilized the hard prison and approved the seizure for equivalent in 2008, for which you can boast, as Minister of the Interior, of having inflicted to the mafia in the past and today kidnapping for hundreds of billions; all this thanks to the fight against the mafia wanted by Silvio Berlusconi and those courageous laws on which President Berlusconi put his face. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We were together. Your ministers have shared this and I have made names and surnames; we have put our faces on it, because we are tolerant, but we know how to be rigorous when it comes to fighting organised crime. MIRABELLI (PD). It's off the charts. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). We are liberals, reformists and defenders of just and fast justice and we have coined Article 111 of the Constitution with our Marcello Pera responsible for justice: that article 111, Minister Salvini and Minister for Public Administration Giulia Bongiorno, which risks being questioned with the entry into force of the abolition of the prescription, where you will not be able - and it will certainly not be your fault - to reform justice in ten months, reform of which there is no trace in parliamentary work. Attention to the risk that you run, because here you risk skipping the rule of law. MIRABELLI (PD). It's an intervention on everything. Mr Marcucci (PD). A government program. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Not to mention the fact - and I am about to conclude - that the defence of these values, timeless because rooted in our history, leads us today to express a vote not of convenience, such as that which will be expressed shortly by some of its allies, but of coherence in our history. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Our vote of consistency is a vote that honours our credibility, past, present and future. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u78	You have the right to do so. (
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u79	[[Brusio]] ) GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u80	Will Senator Giarrusso be able to express his explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u81	[[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] VALENT (PD). It's the handcuffs! GIARRUSSO (M5S). I believe that, regardless of how we vote today and what each of us thinks, it is clear to everyone that a debate of extraordinary importance is taking place in this House today with few precedents in the parliamentary history of this country. A debate in which we are faced with senators, who represent popular sovereignty and legislative power, the Government, which represents the executive power of this country and which is brought to this House by another power, the judicial one, so that all of us senators can evaluate its actions. No one in this House today can doubt that we are facing the heart of democracy and that democracy is confronting itself and its limits: we must make it clear. Someone before me said the government isn't above the law. It is very true: the Government, the Parliament and also the judiciary in this case are moving in the framework of republican legality, according to Article 96 of the Constitution and according to constitutional law 16 January 1989, n.1. We are within the perimeter of republican legality. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And what do the 1989 law and Article 96 of the Constitution require? They call for an assessment by this House which exercises legislative power and which - as the court of ministers rightly points out - is not a matter for the judiciary: the assessment of whether the action of a Minister, in this case the Minister of the Interior, has been to protect a prominent public interest or a constitutionally relevant interest in the State. Article 9, paragraph 3, speaks of prominent public interest because (and here we are at the heart of the problem of democracy) not any government action could always be legitimate, just because government action. MIRABELLI (PD). Bravo! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Government actions must be assessed according to the constitutional interest or the pre-eminent public interest, i.e. through a balance that the rules give back to us senators, in this case. This balance is with the sacrifice imposed on migrants, which has been remembered: they were held for four days and assisted by our Forces of Order, the Navy and the entire apparatus of the State inside a port of the Republic, safe at last, for four days, before, during and after which the entire Government, as the President of the Council recalled in the first intervention in this House in September, had committed himself to something that for us of the Movimento 5 Stars is important since we are in Parliament. Since 2014, in fact, we have been contesting the crazy treaties signed before our arrival in Parliament and that made it possible for those who landed in a state to become and remain a problem of that state and not to land in Europe. We have always said, since 2014, that those who land in Italy land in Europe. President Conte went to say this in June, before the Diciotti ship arrived in Europe, with the authority of a very strong popular legitimacy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Verducci (PD). What's that got to do with anything? GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is what the Minister of the Interior has pursued, preventing for four days the landing of migrants in the port of Catania, landing that would have determined the immediate application of those Treaties that we have always opposed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] You're from the FI-BP group. Honesty! Honest! GIARRUSSO (M5S). We must say why today's issue is an unprecedented one. Of ministers accused in the history of the Republic, unfortunately, there were several, but they were shameful issues that are still wounded open to the Republic. We must remember this: the Locris affair, the bribes for the purchase of military aircraft. Those were shameful. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Do you know what kidnapping means? Mr Marcucci (PD). He's charged with kidnapping! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is the first time that a Minister and a Government - whether they can be shared or not - can legitimately come to Parliament to demand action on behalf of the Government. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Then we can divide and we can consider it or not suitable but it is and remains, as has been clearly indicated in the memoirs of the President of the Council, of the Vice President Di Maio and of the Minister Toninelli, an action of government shared and carried out legitimately. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] We are not talking about immunity in this case, we must be clear. The 5 Star Movimento has never abdicated its principles. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] . MALPEZZI (PD). Buffoons! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Colleagues, you know that I, personally, asked my colleagues here to put me to trial when it came to Rule 68! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! GIARRUSSO (M5S). My colleagues and I voted to go to trial with my colleague Paola Taverna, who was accused, because we believe that immunity belongs to the past and must be overcome. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Except for Salvini! COLLINA (PD). But you were against it! GIARRUSSO (M5S). However, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with today is another issue, which concerns the heart of democracy, the possibility of a government making choices. These choices must have an assessment. And the law says that the evaluation must be done in these classrooms when it comes to an act of government. MALPEZZI (PD). But you had it done on the Rousseau platform! MARCUCCI (PD). The exchange! MIRABELLI (PD). Shame! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is the claim that is in the DNA of the Movement, the return of sovereignty to citizens, because it is in these classrooms that citizens exercise sovereignty, through their representatives and their spokesmen! [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Romeo]] Giro (FI-BP). Exactly! Shame on you! What are you talking about? GIARRUSSO (M5S). I am not here to repeat what others, better than me, have already repeated. There is no doubt that we are in the presence of government action. There is no doubt that this balance of interests in this case has been there because, in the face of a pre-eminent interest, pursued for years by the Movement, such as that of bringing Europe back to its responsibilities for the problem of migrants, there has been a minimum sacrifice that can be tolerated in democracy. That is all we need to talk about here today! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). But where? Mr Marcucci (PD). You're the exchange government! GIARRUSSO (M5S). For this reason, I am proud to announce that the 5 Star Movement, after having shared this decision with its citizens and members, will vote firmly so that the Government does not have to respond to an action that has been carried out in the interest of the State and its citizens. [[The Senators of the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups stand up. Many applauses from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Minister Salvini went to Senator Giarrusso to express his congratulations. Congratulations. Protests from PD and FI-BP groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You're incoherent!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u83	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u84	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, human rights are inalienable rights, which every human being has since birth. The recognition of the specific dignity of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of human society is the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Human rights are registered and form the basis of law. They represent superior form to any other norm. These rights cannot be compressed even a little, unless they are a danger in the contingent of a preeminent constitutional legal asset of the State: of the State, which belongs to all, and not to the Government, which belongs to some, as dangerously reported in the report. Well, the human rights of the members of the Diciotti have been compressed, certainly reversiblely, but they have been compressed. Rights, among other things, of fragile subjects, including minors, and in critical psychophysical conditions. These compressed rights must be compared to the Minister's action, assessing whether this subtraction is worth protecting a constitutional asset that is prominent in the state. In my opinion, no. I would add that it is dangerous, for now and for the future, to pass on the concept that in order to assert a political purpose, a right, however legitimate, to others, we can rely on the rights of third parties, which in this case are also weaker and in a state of discomfort and fragility. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Falco and Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u86	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u87	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, on 5 April 2011, the Italian Parliament voted that Ruby was Mubarak's niece and I often wondered how it was possible to deny the evidence to save some friends' armchair and I told myself that with Movimento 5 Stars this would never happen again. Vice Prime Minister Salvini said a sentence that I liked: "To tell me lies comes little and gets bad." To me too unfortunately telling lies comes little and gets bad, because I grew up in Movimento 5 Stars with honesty as a lighthouse. Here there was no prevailing interest of the state, there was no constitutionally relevant interest in stopping 177 people on a ship. There was a propaganda interest; there was a political interest with the tiny "p". I trusted the government to solve the problem of migrants and I am sure that it can do so with intelligent, forward-looking and long-term policies, but not playing these games. I also expected that Minister Salvini, as a strong man as he is, would have the courage and the back straight to go to trial. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco]] to honour precisely the respect for those Forces of Order that he mentioned: the girls, boys, moms and dads who every morning put their uniforms and go down to the street to defend national security, without escort and without immunity. I can say this proudly because the father of my children has been doing this for twenty years. We all have responsibility for our choices. However, I would like to thank my colleagues in the parliamentary group and the group leader Patuanelli, who has always been open to dialogue, confrontation and transparency. I want to thank my colleagues with whom I continue to have a journey together because I am sure that all of them in conscience, whatever they vote, will do so in order to protect the Movimento 5 Stars. And I, unlike Minister Salvini, will face a trial for this conscious and coherent choice of mine, because I will be referred to the probivors, as rightly wants the code of conduct of the Movimento 5 Stars. This process, however, I will face it with my head high and my back straight and I would have preferred to face a real process rather than run the risk of seeing myself strayed from the magnificent 5 Star community. Only one thing I can say that comforts me: people like me the 5 Stars tattooed them on our hearts ( [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] ). There will be no process that will eradicate them, even if I lose this process that I care about very much. I would like to thank everyone and vote against it by my group. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups, and the Senators De Falco and Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u88	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I would remind you that under Rule 135-a (8) of the Rules of Procedure, the Council's proposal will be rejected if it fails to vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. I would also remind you that the result will not be proclaimed immediately. Senators who have not taken part in the vote will then be able to go to the bench of the Presidency and declare their clear vote to the Secretary Senators who will take note of it in appropriate kept minutes. This option may be exercised until the closing of voting operations scheduled for 7 p.m. After voting, the vote will be taken and the result announced. In accordance with Rule 135-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot on the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which is intended to deny the authorization to proceed with Senator Matteo Salvini as Minister for the Interior. The senators in favour of the Junta's proposal not to grant authorization to proceed will vote yes. Senators against the Junta proposal will vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the roll-call vote closed by simultaneous ballot. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 5.30 p.m. for the inspection union. I ask the Secretary Senators to be kindly present in the Chamber to collect the votes until the sitting is resumed. (The sitting was suspended at 1.11 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u89	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00571 on the reorganisation of the medical-legal area of the INPS. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u90	Mr President, I would first like to highlight the work done by the National Institute of Social Security, which, in accordance with the planned timetable, is ensuring that all questions for the delivery of the main measures of this Government are received: the income of citizenship and the 100th share. The decree-law on the income of citizenship and quota 100 represents, in fact, not only a very important measure of income support, which will restore dignity to all those people who today live intolerable situations of poverty, but also that indispensable investment in active labour policies, which none of the previous governments has ever realized. With this in mind, it is clear to everyone that, in order to meet these new competences, the INPS had to adapt its structure in order to ensure the performance of its institutional activities in a manner that meets the principles of efficiency and effectiveness that guide public action. With reference to this question, therefore, the innovative reorganisation of the medical and legal area of the Social Security Institute appears aimed at increasing the efficiency of the activities that it is responsible for. The INPS has announced that this reorganization is based on objective criteria that take into account both the data of the resident population and the peculiarities related to the workloads. The aim of the garrison model is to ensure a complete coverage of the needs of the entire audience in the field of social security and welfare. The centralization of legal medical activities, operated by this organizational model, allows for a better distribution of the workloads attributed to the individual doctors, as well as better management of the organizational aspects. It also favours a better uniformity of assessment, guaranteeing greater transparency and fairness, as well as the correctness, collegiality and legality of the determining action. The structure described does not exclude at all, on the other hand, the possibility that, in order to meet the specific needs of citizens, domestic access will be carried out, using the legal and/or opportunity conditions. It is clear that this logic of adaptation of the peripheral structure of the Institute must never result in a disservice for the citizen and, therefore, for its part, the Ministry of Labour and social policies will ensure the continuous supervision of the Institute of Social Security, even if respecting the autonomy and the aims of the institution itself, so that an increase in the efficiency of the organizational apparatus always corresponds to the timely provision of services for the citizen.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u93	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, I thank the Deputy Minister and I am pleased with the answer. We can see, in fact, the effective commitment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to pay the utmost attention to avoid disservices to citizenship, in the face of the peripheral adjustments of the Institute. I therefore fully agree with the Ministry's line when it says that the increase in the efficiency of the organizational apparatus must always correspond to a timely delivery of the service to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u94	Following is the question 3-00249 on the fire of the Mediterranean scrub occurred on 30 September 2018 in the province of Lecce. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u95	Mr President, with regard to the issues raised, it must be pointed out, in advance, that the Ministry of the Environment has direct competence in the matter of fires for the fire-fighting plans of the state protected areas, namely national parks and state nature reserves, in implementation of Article 8 (2) of Law No 353 of 2000, with the support of the managing bodies of those protected areas, which deal in particular with the forecast and prevention of forest fires. On the other hand, it is up to the Regions to have direct competence in the rest of the territory for the programming and planning of AIB and the active struggle also within the aforementioned state protected areas. Precisely in order to carry out prevention initiatives aimed at implementing the provisions of the law just mentioned, on 9 July 2018 the Ministry of the Environment, the Arm of the Carabinieri and the National Corps of Firefighters have signed a special Memorandum of Understanding aimed at defining fire-fighting activities in state protected areas, in order to be able to best combat the problem of forest fires in these territorial areas. As regards, more specifically, fire fighting in the territory of the Puglia Region, the same said that it had taken several initiatives aimed at preventing and combating forest fires. Among these, the decree of the President of the Regional Council n. 266 of 30 April 2018 concerning "Declaration period of serious danger for forest fires year 2018" includes the general norms of behaviour to combat forest fires in order to protect public safety and forest heritage in the regional territory; as well as the plan of forecast, prevention and active fight against forest fires 2018-2020, approved by decree of the Regional Council n. 585 of 10 April 2018, which is also the prerequisite for the development of further programming tools for interventions to protect the forest heritage. As regards the measures to protect the Le Cesine State Nature Reserve, it should be noted that the managing body (WWF) has prepared the multi-annual plan AIB (2017-2021). The plan provides for forestry measures to reduce the potential triggering and vulnerability of the forest to fire, with the aim of structuring a forest system that is more resilient and fire resistant, interventions on forest roads, water supply, training and information and surveillance. The plan has already passed the technical investigation of the Ministry of the Environment, have been acquired the opinions of the Forest Carabinieri and the fire department and has been requested the understanding to the Region Puglia for the inclusion of the aforementioned plan AIB of the protected area in the regional AIB plan. Added to this are the initiatives already taken by the Region of Puglia to mitigate the fire risk in the aforementioned Reserve, including prevention interventions through the installation of sensors for the overcoming of the ozone and carbon dioxide values, finalize them to the alarming of the fires through a European project, financed through the interregional programming 2007-2013 and presented by the University of Lecce, with the involvement of the section of the Regional Civil Protection as stakeholder. The Region has also represented to have in program the realization of a system of sighting to safeguard the reserve. Also on the basis of what has been reported by the regional administration, with particular regard to the active fight against forest fires, the same has provided to increase the ability to contrast in the territory of the province of Lecce, also through the realization of an AIB field of volunteering, twinned with other Regions, near the Municipality of Campi Salentina. Moreover, to raise awareness and inform the population about the risk of forest fires, it has programmed some informative days in the months of May and June 2018 and it has involved the prefectures, the Forces of the order, the National Body of the firefighters, the Harbour offices, the municipalities, the managing agencies of essential services, the managing agencies of the state and regional protected areas, the competent regional sections on the matter and the provincial co-ordinations of the regional civil protection volunteer. The mayors involved have issued appropriate ordinances in order to inform the citizen. As part of the above-mentioned information activities, the Puglia Region publishes its national and regional fire forecasting bulletin daily on its institutional site. Finally, as regards the air quality aspects following the fire in the reserve last September, according to ARPA, the data from ordinary monitoring activities did not show any exceedances of the environmental limits provided for by the reference legislation, nor any significant increase in the concentrations of the pollutants detected. The ARPA has however specified that in the immediate vicinity of the area of the fire are not present fixed stations of monitoring of the quality of the air. In any case, it should be added that the Agency carries out periodic monitoring of water, sediment and biological quality elements in the marsh area within the area affected by the fire. In the light of the information exposed, it is reassured however that the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has provided and will provide for the future activities and assessments of competence in the matter with the maximum degree of attention and will continue to monitor the regulatory impact of the regulations of field, also in order to evaluate possible revisions of the discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u98	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, if there had not been the last incident of the Secretary of State, I would have been absolutely dissatisfied with the answer, because he made a detailed list of the regulatory forecasts and the bodies responsible for certain control and verification activities, leaving out that there is at least a responsibility for coordinating the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. In the end, however, he said that there will be the maximum commitment from the Ministry to verify that all the institutions and bodies competent to control, verify and prevent fires operate according to the instructions of the law. This means that I am partially satisfied with the answer and not dissatisfied. Mr. Undersecretary, the Minister should have done this already. It is true that Law No 353 of 2000 identifies in the Regions the bodies territorially competent to verify, control and plan all these activities, but there is the provisions of Legislative Decree No 112 of 1998 that I believe require the Ministry to coordinate. It does not have a direct responsibility in the prevention and the activity necessary for prevention, but certainly a responsibility for coordination, control and stimulation of the bodies in charge. It is clear that if the Regions do not comply with the law, the Ministry can and must intervene to solicit them. This is the first fact that I think I have to represent to the exponent of the Government. Then there is another aspect. It is not enough to list all those activities of information, awareness and education in the prevention of fires that are provided for by law and that, therefore, must be done; we expected from the government a response on the actual implementation and the result achieved, because many times the activity of awareness is a bureaucratic act. We wanted to know if this bureaucratic act had then turned into a real awareness-raising activity and what results had been achieved. We note with satisfaction that, of course, this fire, which destroyed 50 hectares of Mediterranean maquis, was necessary for the Region of Puglia to equip itself with the sensors necessary for the control of such a vast territory, a contract that cannot be millimetric, but that, carried out with appropriate technological activities, can certainly be useful to prevent, or at least limit, if one were to verify again acts of this type, damages. In conclusion, I am partially satisfied with the response of the representative of the Government and I hope that the commitment he has made in this House today will be concrete and effective implementation will be taken into account. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u99	Following is the question 3-00406 on the realization of an integrated platform for waste management and exploitation in Centuripe, in the province of Enna. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the issues raised, it is appropriate to point out, in advance, that the granting of authorisations to installations and the delivery of opinions on requests submitted for their implementation are of exclusive regional competence and local authorities responsible for verifying compliance of works with current legislation, including with regard to urban aspects. The Region, when granting authorisations to waste treatment plants, takes into account the plant requirements and objectives contained in the Regional Waste Management Plan. In this regard, it should be noted that, in this case, the Region of Sicily is engaged in the adoption of a new Waste Management Plan in accordance with European law, which allows it to achieve the national objectives of separate collection and to give priority to waste management operations at the highest levels of the hierarchy. The Plan was appreciated by the Regional Council in December last year and the regional SEA procedure is under way, leading to its definitive approval. As regards, more specifically, the construction of the platform in question, the Municipality of Centuripe pointed out that the proposal submitted by Oikos SpA was forwarded last September 2018, for the opinion of competence, to the agencies in charge of the Province of Enna, namely the provincial health company (ASP), the office of civil genius and the Superintendence for cultural and environmental goods. By letter dated 15 October 2018, the Provincial Health Authority considered that it was necessary to acquire the environmental compatibility assessment (EIA) by the ARTA, as well as the preliminary judgment by the Regional Department of Water and Waste. Moreover, according to the ASP, the design complexity of the work required an evaluation at the Conference of Services. The competent civil engineering office in Enna requested, for its part, an amendment or addition of the documentation attached to the proposal, in order to be able to express its opinion following a thorough examination. The municipal administration also indicated that, at the request of the Superintendence, the report of prior verification of the archaeological interest was carried out and transmitted. To the outcome of the investigation aimed at the aforementioned verification, the competent superintendence to cultural and environmental goods, with note of 14 February last, has expressed its negative opinion. More in particular, the aforementioned superintendence, considered that the area affected by the variant to the urbanist instrument for the realization of the project includes an extensive portion of the territory recorded in the land register of the Municipality of Centuripe and falls in contrada Muglia, has evidenced that the area is immediately contiguous to the site of archaeological interest called Monte Pietraperciata, classified with type A1 for the presence of a settlement and necropolis with tombs oven of prehistoric age and examined the Study preventive of the archaeological interest, has found that, from the cross examination of the data, the area object of the design turns to high archaeological risk for some territorial units and to medium-high archaeological risk for others. For the latter, it has specified that the finding of finds in dispersion on the surface of the same ones does not exclude the risk of the presence of mobile finds or structures in the subsoil. The low archaeological risk has been recognized for only one territorial unit. Also according to what has been highlighted by the superintendence in its opinion, the positive outcome of the preliminary archaeological check must be compared with the impact that the realization of the plant has with the subsoil of the area, since the planned works will result in excavations, debankments and a substantial upheaval of the current pedological and geomorphological structure of the portion of the territory in question. In this regard, the Superintendence has also pointed out that the land identified for the construction of the waste treatment platform is included in one of the densest areas of archaeological finds of Central and Eastern Sicily, as well as in one of the most intact and uncontaminated landscapes of the island from the naturalistic point of view. The Superintendence concluded, therefore, that the proposed urban variant would lead to the change of the rural destination to which the area has been invoked since ancient times and that, given the strong environmental impact of the works in question with the natural components of the site, would end with the serious prejudice to the landscape values of the area subject to protection. On the basis of these considerations, the Superintendence has therefore expressed its refusal to the proposal for a variant to the urban planning tool put forward by the Municipality in relation to the proposed implementation of the platform. In the light of the information, it is represented that the Ministry will continue to monitor the situation and keep informed through the competent territorial entities, without reducing in any way the level of attention on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u103	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, in thanking Mr Gava for his timely and positive reply, in my opinion, I would like to express here the hope that all those involved in this phase of the authorization procedure will issue, as Enna's superintendence has done, preliminary opinions that take into account the characteristics and vocations of that portion of the territory of the Province of Enna we are dealing with. The so-called integrated waste management and exploitation platform that is intended to be built in Centuripe, near the town of Catenanuova, is in fact the largest landfill ever built in Sicily. It is a plant for which construction has already been purchased by the company proposing about 300 hectares of land with a strong agricultural vocation in an area whose agri-food production would inevitably see its reputation compromised. Imagine the impact that the presence of such a landfill would have on the health of the local population, which already fears the prospect of seeing a quarter of all the solid urban waste produced in Sicily concentrated behind the house. In recent months thousands of free citizens, supported by environmental and cultural associations, have repeatedly expressed in the square to say no to the realization of that landfill, frightened by the sure prospect of degradation of their territory, with serious damage to the local economy. I will never be able to understand the attitude of some local politicians who say, with emphasis, that they love their country, but rather re-launch it through the valorization of the environmental, cultural, agri-food heritage of the territory, voluntarily yield to the proposal of realization of a mega-dissemination able to receive 1,000 tons of waste per day. A few days ago, the sad proposal for another landfill was apparently concluded, in this case for special and dangerous waste, to be carried out near Agira, an ancient and proud center in the Nennese, in an environmental and agricultural context of proven value. I hope that this refusal will be final and that in the future no further authorisations will be granted, even when limited, for example, to cement-asbestos artifacts only: to counter the multiform ingenuity of those who are attentive to the environment with the malcelated connivance of certain politicians, in fact, requires the utmost attention. Given that the Region of Sicily is developing, as mentioned, a new waste management plan, I invite the Sicilian regional government to address the issue of waste management in a responsible way, without allowing the looting of a territory still intact. It is necessary - and I would like to reiterate this here - to aim for a drastic reduction of waste with policies based on prevention of the production of waste, reuse of objects and recycling of materials. In order to do this, installations must be set up to close the waste cycle, including organic waste, and to differentiate them in a healthy and efficient way, giving full implementation to the principle of the circular economy. Sicily needs such facilities to archive the season of old-fashioned landfills. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we are in the preliminary stages of what I consider to be a real disaster, without sense, to the detriment of a territory and the health of its inhabitants: as a representative of that same territory I will oppose it with all my strength and within the limits of my capacity, supported also by the elements acquired today in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u104	Following is the question 3-00384 on the lack of legal-pedagogical officials in the surrounding houses. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u105	Mr President, with the trade union act in question, the questioners refer to the lack of staff of legal and educational officials and to the negative consequences resulting from the organic implementation of the interventions to attribute to the penalty its re-educational value, constitutionally guaranteed by Article 27 of the Constitution. In particular, the situation of the surrounding house Gazzi of Messina is recalled, where for 272 prisoners there would be only two legal-pedagogical officials, one of whom on occasional parental leave, as well as the situation of the surrounding house Sant'Anna of Modena where, against the 484 prisoners, there would be only five legal-pedagogic officials, two of whom were in temporary detachment to other structures. The interrogators therefore ask to know whether the interrogated minister does not intend to make use of additional resources in the legal-pedagogical field, in order to remedy the problem described. It should be borne in mind that the total organic endowments of the prison administration have been considerably reduced as a result of the reduction measures on the organizational arrangements provided for by the current rules on the containment of public expenditure. In fact, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 15 June 2015, n. 84, the forecast of the organic quota belonging to the functional areas has been reduced to 4,689 units compared to the initial table given in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 4 October 2000, equal to a total of 9,640 units. This quota has been divided into the various professional profiles by ministerial decree 19 September 2016. A total of 999 units were provided for legal and educational professionalism in this context. At present there are 918 units, with an organic cover equal to 8.11 percent. Relating the above-mentioned coverage rate to the two prison structures mentioned in the question, indeed, there are no profiles of particular criticality in relief, expected that at the surrounding house of Messina there are actually a total of three units of legal-pedagogic officials on the four units envisaged, while at the surrounding house of Modena there is no deficiency in this regard. It should also be duly noted that, at national level, the recalled coverage rate is intended to be almost halved in a short time, as the procedure for the immediate recruitment of 37 units for the profile of pedagogical official is being defined, after by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 15 November 2018, published in the Official Journal of 24 December 2018, the Department of the penitentiary administration has been authorised to employ personnel belonging to the central functions department in relation to the request for access to the turnover 2018 (cessed 1 January-31 December 2017). As far as more specifically concerns the institutes subject to the act of inspection union, it must be emphasized that last 6 December has been called extraordinary question for the transfer to demand of the staff of the penitentiary administration framed in the professional profile of legal-pedagogic official, third area, for the cover of 39 total places, and that between the places put in competition they are just the surrounding house of Modena and that of Messina, both for the cover of a place. For complete information, it is evident that with subsequent measure last February, the terms of the above question have reopened having been put to competition three other places in other locations. It is therefore quite clear that among the priorities of this Dicastery is the overall reinforcement of the staff of the prison administration, also in the technical and administrative field; in this direction, on the other hand, the budget law for 2019 with which the permanent recruitment of 260 units of technical and administrative staff of the III and II area of the roles of the Department of the penitentiary administration is entered, through an allocation of more resources for 25,9 million euros in the three years 2019-2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u108	RICCARDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his timely reply. I note that the Ministry of Justice is working to strengthen the work of the legal-pedagogical officials, increasing their presence within the prison institutions. We must never forget, in fact, the fundamental re-educational role that our Constitution attaches to the prison sentence: the prisoner must be placed in a position to train and consolidate his social and civil attitudes through a complex path, which cannot and must not ignore the commitment and competence of qualified personnel. Jurisdiction that in our prison system is also represented by legal-pedagogical officials. It is from the point of view of the above that I am pleased to learn the intention of the Ministry of Justice to halve in short time the deficit of personnel afferent to the treatment area through the recruitment of new staff. In the specific case, the interventions of extension of the staff planned for the surrounding houses Gazzi of Messina and Sant'Anna of Modena constitute a first tangible step towards the implementation of a virtuous management of the institutes of punishment that in our country has always been the object of serious criticality. Learning that the difficulties of the Italian prison system are one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice allows us to look more confidently at the future of this important and delicate aspect of the social sphere of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u109	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto tecnico economico (Economic Technical Institute) (Judo Piovene) in Venice, the Liceo classico (Classical High School) (Giosuè Carducci) in Nola, in the province of Naples, and finally the Istituto tecnico-enologico (Technical and Wine Institute) (G.B. Cerletti di Conegliano, in the province of Treviso, who are witnessing our works. [[Applause]] Resumption of the holding of questions
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u110	Following is the question 3-00471 on certain episodes of violence against police officers in the prison of Asti. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u111	Mr President, with the act of inspection union in epigraph, the honourable Member referred to an act of aggression committed against a prison police operator on 15 November at Asti's prison house at the hands of a prisoner and a previous collective protest initiative by 40 prisoners. In pointing out the uncoverings of staff and the rate of overcrowding of the prison population of the structure in question, he asked to know whether and how the Minister of Justice intends to intervene in support of the staff of the Prison Police in service at the prison house of Asti, in order to increase the security of the agents and whether an increase of the staff at the same structure aimed at reaching the number of agents expected. With reference to the episodes mentioned in the parliamentary question, it should be said that on the same afternoon of 15 November, pursuant to Article 78 (1) of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 230 of 2000, the precautionary isolation of the local infirmary department of the prisoner who was responsible for the attack was arranged, behind nothing by the medical director. On 16 November 2018, the Disciplinary Board imposed the sanction of exclusion from joint activities for fifteen days, always to be carried out with the health clearance, in the infirmary department and with a measure of great surveillance. On the morning of November 17, 2018, the prisoner was transferred to the surrounding house of Turin, equipped with an adjoining psychiatric observation department. The prisoner was also referred to the judicial authority for violation of Articles 582 and 340 of the Criminal Code. Also following the collective protest demonstration carried out on the previous 13 November by a group of prisoners, appropriate measures were promptly taken, consisting in the transfer of those who had been promoters of the protest. In fact, it should be pointed out that the prison presences at the Asti structure do not present particular critical profiles, as they are currently present at the 216 facility held with respect to a regulatory capacity equal to 205 places available, with a crowding index equal to 105.37 percent, as such lower is compared to the national average, which stands at 124.14 percent, both compared to the regional average that stands at 125.15 percent. As far as organic endowment is concerned, it is necessary to take the starting point from the basic premise that the overall reduction of the staff carried out by Law n. 124 of 7 August 2015, the so-called Law Madia, and revised by Legislative Decree n. 95 of 2017, has remodulated the total organic endowment of the Body, from 44,610 to 41,202 units. The total national allocation, on 6 December 2018, is 36.688 units, with a coverage rate of 11 percent. A total of 168 units are actually present at the Asti prison house compared to an organic forecast of 186 units, showing a total coverage percentage of 9.7%, below the national average. There is no shortage in the role of staff/assistants at the institution under consideration, but a loss of 23% compared with organic forecasts, while the shortcomings are in the role of inspectors and supervisors, equal to 83.3% and 89.7% respectively. The strengthening of prison police officers is one of the priorities of this Dicastery. In this regard, first of all, it is important to point out that Asti's prison house, through ordinary mobility of the year 2018, defined in September, has been the subject of an increase of four male units belonging to the qualification of agents/assistants. In addition, 976 assistant inspectors who have attended the training course just completed are expected to take part. On the other hand, as regards the role of supervisors, the procedures for the internal competition are still under way totalling 2,851 posts for the appointment to the position of deputy supervisor of the male and female role of the Body. With the budget law for the year 2019 and for the three-year period 2019/2012 the recruitment of 1,300 units of the prison police force in the year 2019 and 577 units in the period 2020/2023 was planned to increase the efficiency of the prison institutions, also taking into account the indisputable need to prevent and contrast the spread of the ideology of terrorist matrix in prison; to this end more resources were allocated for 71,5 million euros. Among the most recent initiatives taken to ensure higher levels of security within the institutions of the territory, the circular letter 9 October 2018 of the Department of the penitentiary administration addressed to all the central (general) and territorial (regional provisions and penitentiary institutions), with the aim of enhancing the application of the regulatory instruments, provided for both by Law No 354 of 1975 and by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 230 of 2000, directed precisely to protect the security of the institutions. Specifically, a targeted application of the legislation laid down in Article 42 of Law No 354 of 1975 has been detailed in the section on transfers for serious safety reasons. The reference to Article 32 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 230 of 2000, in the part in which provision is made for the assignment, as a precaution, to particular institutions and sections, of those prisoners who, even if they have not yet committed any episode of violence or other kind, for their behaviour are to be considered dangerous to safety. On the basis of what has just been represented, it was therefore arranged to transfer to other institutions of those subjects who have been responsible for: assaults consumed or attempted against the staff of the penitentiary administration, medical and nursing staff or, again, that belonging to the volunteer; assaults consumed or attempted against other prisoners; damage to the property of the administration; any other event of violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u114	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, I have to say that, at this speed, it is of course difficult to grasp the myriad of data in an overall context. What is grasped, with regard to the prison of Asti, is the fact that some small effort has been made and that, it seems to me, four units have been inserted, with the displacement of those who were the subjects who had created the criticalities. I have had the opportunity to visit some other prison and, basically, what emerges is a collective criticality both in terms of redundancies of subjects within, from the point of view of detention, and in terms of an overall deficiency. I realize that, at this moment, there is the will to implement the body, as the Undersecretary said, but in my opinion the criticality remains. I have also heard proclamations about the desire to build new prisons or, at least, I have listened to commercials from the prison point of view: great proclamations but also in this case, basically, they are only and exclusively slogans. Therefore, more than declaring myself satisfied or not - and I repeat that we should really compare all the details highlighted - I stress that the national system is still in great deficit and I do not believe that only an injection of prison police, although always commendable and well accepted, can compensate for a deficiency. What is evident, therefore, is the need for a strategic plan which, basically, I regret to say, is what is lacking in the proposals of this Government. This is the element that needs to be highlighted. Therefore, I am only partially satisfied. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u115	Following is question 3-00461 on the reordering of the legislation on public services and administrative requirements of Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u116	Mr President, Senators, the technical-political table provided for in Decree-Law No 91 of 25 July 2018 took place at the meeting of the State-City Conference on 20 December 2018. The relative work is continuing with continuity and activity, in a climate of collaboration and fruitful comparison between the governmental component and that of the local autonomy, represented by ANCI and UPI, and are aimed - as is known - at the drafting of guidelines in view, of a necessary revision and systematization of the legislation on the organization and the functioning of the local authorities, often the object, in recent years, of various disarmament interventions and also of dubious effectiveness. In particular, the guidelines are intended to outline a path aimed at the organic review of the regulation of the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, the overcoming of the obligation to manage functions associated with them, the simplification of administrative and accounting burdens on municipalities, especially small ones. Several meetings took place after the table was set up, during which the contributions and proposals made by representatives of central and local authorities were examined and examined. At the outset, the work focused on the way in which voluntary associationism of the municipalities was carried out in view of a possible and - I add - necessary overcoming the obligation of the associated exercise of the fundamental functions, with a view to enhancing their autonomy, which is even more compelling in the light of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court. It should be considered that the need for a reform of this area is mainly linked to the fact that the obligation to manage the fundamental functions, imposed by law on small municipalities, has not produced the expected results, giving rise on the territory to a leopard-spotted associationism, fruit also of the absence of an adequate planning in this matter, as well as of procedural difficulties. The other issue that the table has dealt with and on which it has focused attention, which is in the advanced phase of definition, is related to the simplification of administrative and accounting burdens on the municipalities, with specific reference to the burdens on small municipalities. In this area, it should be pointed out that over the years they have multiplied, often inconsistent with the capacity of local authorities, accounting and procedural requirements to such an extent that they are particularly burdensome, making the municipalities themselves unable to carry out them. It has emerged therefore the necessity to proceed to a work of simplification of the requirements, in order to allow the agencies of government of the territory to focus more on the active administration and the concrete care of the public interests of reference. I would add that during the last table, held last week at the Ministry of the Interior, we have also prepared guidelines on the simplification of bureaucratic and administrative burdens, leading to certainty on a clear and obvious principle: we cannot treat in the same way objectively different subjects. Small municipalities cannot have the same rules as large municipalities. At the same time, the technical-political table is continuing the comparison on the guidelines for the reform of the Provinces and metropolitan cities. The comparison on the possible ordinal and organizational changes of the governing bodies of Large Area is still in progress and I am convinced that in the coming weeks the proposals made by the different parties will find a useful synthesis. The function of the table is to indicate guidelines to Parliament and the Government. The guidelines will also be identified possibly by photographing the divergence of opinions, but certainly overcoming a impasse linked to an operation that the local authorities have substantially lost. In conclusion, the work that we are carrying out with the greatest commitment and good results of comparison, in compliance with the strict timing, can constitute a useful platform for the successive legislative initiatives that, I am sure, will be able to recover to better utility the role of the Provinces, to return centrality to the Municipalities and to make - it is hoped - finally take off the functions of the metropolitan cities ultimately to respond with greater efficiency and effectiveness to the needs and needs of the local communities. We must remember that also from the activity of the local Autonomies comes a large part of the operation of the investments. Our municipalities are in turn always involved in planning, but all too often there are operational difficulties: the procurement code has its function, but also the organization of relations between bodies. I am thinking of the large-area entities, namely the Provinces, which have basically lost their operational capacity over the last few years, after the so-called Delrio reform, until the multiplication and birth of an impressive plethora of optimal areas. I am thinking of the areas for metanization and other organizational structures that have arisen alternately in the Provinces, which, in fact, give rise to non-operation. Suffice it to say that over the last two years not a single ban has been made for the metanization: this also corresponds to large investments that are no longer realized on the territory, losing not only in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, but also in terms of urbanization and qualification of the services to the territory. We are working on this; the aim is to arrive, in the coming weeks, as I mentioned, at a synthesis. After that, we should rewrite the single text of the local authorities, in agreement with Parliament, and of course relate to all the local authorities of representation: Municipalities, provinces and local self-governments. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u119	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr. Undersecretary, it seems to me that a good job has begun and is continuing. I note that, at last, we would like to put an end to one of the reforms objectively - as we have all said - more abnormal (not to use other terms) than the history of the Republic. If there was an already precarious situation with respect to the criticalities that all local authorities had, creating a stalemate in an intermediate system was probably a real folly. I think it is very important - simply because it is understood from the point of view of local interlocation - the temporal element. This is fundamental, first of all because many Provinces are also in difficulty from the point of view of budgets, on the financial and economic front; therefore, objectively, the situation is critical (I refer at least to the situations that more or less live systematically). On the other hand, the municipalities themselves are in great difficulty. I realize that the financial aspects are not simple on the transfer front, but I think it is very important to restore - you rightly pointed out the issue of small municipalities - also the parameterization linked to transfers. This is another element that comes from the ANCI, but also from the individual realities and stems precisely from the need for a reform of the single text of local authorities. If the debate also comes on these benches and in the Commissions I believe there will be a way of deepening because then - I agree - from the base, from the system of operation of the local authorities there are a whole series of situations and actions that of course can be useful for development, operation, prevention and everything that is the system. The creation of sub-governments and intermediate situations, on the other hand, create only great chaos: the bodies are there, it is only a matter of making them work and of course of creating organic and structural conditions that are not, as you said before, Mr Undersecretary, leopard-spotted, because objectively they would not lead to anything. I would add that perhaps we should start looking at macro-regions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u120	The following is Question 3-00110 on the new rules for the promotion of renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u121	Mr President, I represent the following in relation to this act. The current Government has immediately restarted the work for the reworking of the scheme of decree RES aimed at encouraging renewable sources, in accordance with its political guidelines on the matter, sign of the will to continue and strengthen the support to the field. The above-mentioned scheme was therefore agreed with the Ministry of the Environment and the opinions of the Energy Regulatory Authority for Networks and Environment (ARERA) and the Unified Conference were acquired. At the end of January 2019 the text was finally notified to the European Commission for the verification of its compliance with Community rules and, in particular, with the framework on State aid for the environment and energy 2014-2020 (referred to in the Communication of the European Commission No 2014/C 200/01). As a result, the intercourse with the European Commission services has already begun, which has made clarifications to which the ministries concerned have worked, presenting the relevant responses at the videoconference held on 14 March. In that context, the Commission also asked for a more detailed explanation of some of the choices included in the decree. It is expected that these requests will be found as soon as possible so as to arrive at the approval of the scheme quickly, taking into account the fact that the Commission has 60 days from notification to give the green light to the draft decree, a deadline which, however, could begin to flow again in the case of further requests for inquiry, even if for these reasons the timing of the procedures for the allocation of incentives will begin in 2019. In this respect, I would like to point out that the budget and the incentive power quotas will have significantly increased compared to the original forecast. The technologies subject to the notified decree are the more mature ones, with mainly fixed costs, low or otherwise susceptible to appreciable reduction (onshore wind, photovoltaic solar, hydropower and residual gases of the purification processes), while the sources and technologies that present significant elements of innovation in the national context, with fixed costs still high or longer times of development, or that have high operating costs (shore wind, ocean energy, biomass, biogas and solar thermodynamic, geothermal, including conventional geothermal) are inserted in another decree being prepared. In the margin, the Italian Government, on 28 December, forwarded to the European Commission the proposal for an Integrated Plan for Climate and Energy, which sets out the framework for the new 2030 targets. This Plan aims at a wide spread of renewables and energy efficiency related to the reduction of polluting and climate-friendly emissions, the improvement of energy security and economic and employment opportunities for households and the production system. One of the novelties contained in this Plan, also in the light of the EU/2018/2001 RED II Directive, is the greater involvement of the citizen (who will also play a central role in the role of prosumers) and of enterprises, in particular the medium and small ones. Finally, I would like to point out that the decree that has been notified, although it is to be placed among the measures for achieving the objectives by 2020, is in any case an opportunity to experiment with some innovative support instruments, such as the promotion of self-consumption, the use of photovoltaics to replace asbestos covers and PPPs (power purchase agreements or long-term contracts), which can also be implemented with a view to the 2030 objectives, such as integration or alternative to traditional support schemes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u124	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in thanking the Vice-Minister for his comprehensive reply, we hope that the measure will be issued quickly, given that the sectors concerned have been waiting for some time and we hope that the requests of the unified Conference between the State, Regions and Municipalities and the European Commission on the encouragement of geothermal energy and the mini and medium hydroelectric energy will be incorporated into the final text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u125	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. As previously announced, I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.28 p.m. and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u126	I declare closed the nominal vote on the application for authorization to proceed to trial, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Matteo Salvini, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior protempore. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. I therefore suspend the sitting until the vote is concluded. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). (The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 7.07 p.m.) I declare the result of the roll-call vote on the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to refuse authorization to proceed to trial pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution against Senator Matteo Salvini, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior protempore (Doc. IV-a, No 1: [[Senators present 299 Senators voting 298 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 161 Favorables 237 Contrari 61]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, FdI and government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u129	ORTIS (M5S). Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, I am speaking because on 1 March 2019 I visited the Military Army Command (CME) Molise, where I had the opportunity to know both the level of integration in the territory of the Molisano Command, the only body of the Army present in the Region, and the professionalism and determination of all the personnel, which has always been a sure point of reference for the entire Molisano community. 19.09 (ORTIS follow). The knowledge derived from me as a result of the visit has given me the mature awareness in affirming that the planned measure of suppression of the CME Molise, deriving from the legislative decree n. 7 of 28 January 2014, cannot and will not have to be executed. The aforementioned legislative decree No. 7 takes inspiration from a business logic, whereby an order for the deletion of an institution should depend on low productivity or excessive operating costs. Precisely these two indicators do not find correlation and application to the Molisano Command, because, with regard to the productivity index, the institution is above many insistent departments in much more populous regions. On the other hand, with regard to operating costs, which amount to approximately EUR 60,000 per year, the possible paradoxical closure would weigh on the state budget for several hundred thousand euros, pursuant to Law No 86 of 29 March 2001, which regulates the transfer of military personnel. However, the fundamental reason why the dreaded closure of the military command army Molise cannot be carried out is because, for the first time in the Italian unitary history, a Region would no longer have any military garrison on the territory (previously, this, unique and unacceptable). Finally, but no less important, the unfortunate hypothesis of a suppression would open up the question of emergencies. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the territory of Molise is considered, as history has taught us several times, among the areas at the highest seismic risk in Europe. For these reasons, I believe that Molise citizens should not see the presence of state garrisons on the territory impoverished any further. In conclusion, I ask that the Ministry of Defence strive to ensure the maintenance of the garrison on the territory, also wishing, where possible, an extension of its functions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u132	BINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in this House to recall a very serious fact, namely the demonstration scheduled for next Saturday, called by Forza Nuova to celebrate the centenary of the birth of the Italian combat bundles, authorized this morning in the city of Prato. There will be time to understand the responsibilities of the various institutional levels in this affair, but I want to make a final appeal to the Government, through the Senate Presidency, to prevent this demonstration. I remember that in Italy the apology of fascism is a crime, introduced in 1952 by the so-called law Scelba in order to implement the twelfth transitional provision of the Constitution that reads: It is forbidden to reorganize, in any form, the dissolved fascist party. The law not only punishes reorganization, but also all those behaviors that exalt fascism. The norm punishes anyone who publicly exalts exponents, principles, facts or methods of fascism, or its anti-democratic purposes. After several years the so-called Mancino law has intervened to specify further the provisions of the law Scelba. The law, passed in 1993, punishes propaganda of ideas based on superiority or racial or ethnic hatred and exaltation of exponents, principles, facts or methods of fascism, or its anti-democratic aims. Allowing a gathering of fascists in a city like Prato, decorated with the silver medal to the military valor for the war of liberation, in a political context such as the current one, which sees the climate getting hotter and hotter, is a serious responsibility that the Government must be aware of. Over 16,000 citizens have signed an appeal in recent days for the demonstration not to be held. The mayor asked for permission to be denied and so did the Curia and many free and peaceful associations that will find themselves in Prato for a pacifist and anti-fascist garrison, at the same time the demonstration of Forza Nuova. Yesterday morning the city of Prato woke up with swastikas on the walls of the seats of the ANPI and the Democratic Party, accompanied by the words: "We arrive". What has yet to happen to make it clear that this demonstration must be stopped? I don't know, but it's okay for everyone to assume the responsibilities they have. That is why I would like to leave my statement in the Senate Chamber to the record, so that it is not said that no one has said so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u133	I greet and welcome on behalf of the Assembly the students of the Institute of Higher Education Paolo Sarpi in San Vito al Tagliamento, in the province of Pordenone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u136	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly in this House to bring to the attention of a problem which I and many people have felt and to which I believe it is time to give an effective and concrete answer. I am referring to the continuing acts of violence against the directors of sports competitions. The situation is serious and deserves, in my opinion, an intervention by the legislator aimed at countering the spiral of violence that is so far removed from the fundamental values of sport, the healthy one to be understood as a gymnasium of life for the younger generations. These are values that we have a duty to protect and defend. Among the last events in order of time there is the attack on Titian - I say only the name - with kicks and punches at the end of a split of an under 17 championship. We welcome the sanctions imposed in this case by the sports judge, fines and disqualifications, but I think much more needs to be done. Mr President, in this regard, I urge the Court of Justice of the Senate Act 978, which aims to assign jurisdiction to the ordinary court in monocratic composition of the crime of minor and very minor personal injuries, as referred to in Article 582 of the Criminal Code, committed at sporting events. On the purpose of the measure I found a broad sharing by the political forces of majority and opposition. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This has been achieved because of a wretched and deformed interpretation of the sporting spirit by some (luckily it is still only a few). I believe that the time has come to say enough and to remedy a situation that is now unsustainable for the arbitration class and for those who want to continue to believe in the values that I mentioned earlier and which sport is essential and primary bearer of. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u139	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there is important news about a decision by the European Commission. I read one of the titles: "I lost five years - The Brussels no to the rescue with the interbank fund pushed the Renzi government to the Etruria disaster. The Court of Justice now annuls it. I therefore wanted to draw the attention of the Assembly and the Government to one of the most serious scandals concerning the saving of Italians, protected by Article 47 of the Constitution. Tens of thousands of citizens have seen their savings reset by the European Commission's wretched and arbitrary decisions with the BRRD directive, better known as bail in, a veritable criminal expropriation of savings endorsed by the then Government, on whose paternity and approval I have seen in recent months as abundant as mocking crocodile tears. I refer, in particular, to the decision of the European Commissioner for Competition Vestager, a few days ago even publicly condemned during a hearing in the Senate, which boiled as state aid the legitimate intervention of the interbank Fund for the protection of deposits, which in 2015 made the payment of 265 million euros to the People's Bank of Bari to cover losses for the acquisition of Tercas imposed by the Bank of Italy. That illegitimate decision, contrary to the intervention of the interbank deposit protection fund, which led to the resolution of Banca Etruria, Banca Marche, Cariferrara and Carichieti, annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union, in addition to having burned the savings of 130,000 families with the advance of the bail in, cost over 5 billion euros only to clean up the four banks and resulted in an assessment of the suffering at 17.6 percent of the reference value, developed throughout the non-performing loan (NPL) match. These are tens of billions of euros that have become, for some bankers and vulture funds, the deal of the century. That decision triggered another chain of events on the modalities of subsequent bank bailouts, both for MPS and other banks. There were tangible and quantified damages from the president of the People's Bank of Bari, Marco Jacobini, in a billion euros lost for the collection and reputational damages for savers. I should like to conclude by saying that it is shocking that Commissioner Vestager, who is trying to put the responsibility on Bankitalia, is downloading the barrel. We who have never made discounts to Bankitalia, hoping that it will clarify and react, will try to file a motion to ask the Government to intervene with the sacrosanct request for damages to a European Commission that deliberately provoked the banking crisis in Italy, putting on the pavement 300,000 families. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u142	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I did not prepare a speech, because I will refer to a fact that happened a short time ago. We often stand up in this House to greet and thank the young people who, as they did just now, visited us, but then we do not control what really happens in real life. Today, in my area, a Senegalese with criminal records driving a bus has kidnapped 51 guys, tying them up, taking their phones and screaming: "I go to Linate to do a massacre, the dead at sea must end!" If it wasn't for the surgery and lucky for a guy to pick up a cell phone that fell on the floor and call the police immediately, we'd be here today crying a massacre of 51 guys. In fact, Senegalese did not just tie them and gag them; Sprinkled gasoline on the bus and tried to set it on fire, a vile gesture towards poor kids who were going to school to do their gymnastics hours. Those kids could be our kids, my kids! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I thank the policemen who intervened promptly breaking the glass and saving all the boys, opening the doors immediately. From what you learn there have been only two minor injuries; but the question I ask and the reflection I want to share with you is: how is it possible that in 2019 a person with criminal record can drive a bus full of children? I just can't conceive that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I conclude my speech by thanking the Carabinieri of San Donato Milanese and Segrate for the excellent intervention and for having saved all the children. I thank our forces of order always present and always available to the citizens. I hope that the government will continue to invest in the Forces of Order, precisely to prevent such events from continuing to happen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u143	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-100.ana.u144	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 21 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.25 p.m.
