ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00152, tabled by Senator Patuanelli and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00153 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators, 1-00156, tabled by Senator Bonino and other senators, 1-00157 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, 1-00159, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1-00162, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, on the Turin-Lion high-speed train. I call Senator Pirro to explain motion 152.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u5	Mr President, the so-called Turin-Lyon high-speed line - which has been mainly used for freight traffic for some time now, and should therefore be called a high-capacity line - is based on an idea of at least thirty years old. The first commitment was signed by Italy and France with an intergovernmental agreement concluded in Paris on 15 January 1996 (the last century), then confirmed by the agreement between Italy and France concluded in Turin on 29 January 2001 and ratified by the Italian Parliament by the law of 27 September 2002, n. 228. A further agreement was signed between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the French Republic in Rome on 30 January 2012 of which it is the ratification by law 23 April 2014, n. 71. The final project of the new international Turin-Lion link - a common part of Italy - cross-border section - was approved by the CIPE with a resolution of 20 February 2015 and on 23 January 2015 the new public promoter, Tunnel Euralpin Lyon-Turin (TELT), responsible for the construction and management of the future infrastructure, took place. On 24 February 2015, the agreement between Italy and France was signed in Paris to start the final works of the Turin-Lyon line. This agreement, supplemented by the Additional Protocol transposing cost certification and contract regulation, was submitted to the Italian and French Parliaments. The law of ratification of the agreement and the annexed protocols has been definitively approved by Italy with the law 5 January 2017, n. 1. So far, the regulatory substratum, but it is clear to anyone who has deepened the issue and examined the data that the conditions that had led the two countries to agree in 1996 have been completely lacking, and this has already been happening for many years. For these reasons the Movimento 5 Stars strongly wanted that in the contract for the Government of Change, signed with the League, it was expected that: With regard to the Turin-Lyon high-speed line, we undertake to discuss the project in full in the application of the agreement between Italy and France. The same commitment was subsequently requested by the Government by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, through the approval of two separate motions, on 21 February 2019 and 7 March 2019. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, therefore, in the context of the activity of integral re-examination of the project, has given mandate to the reconstituted Technical Structure of Mission (STM) to prepare a new evaluation of the adaptation of the railway axis Turin-Lion through the use of the analysis cost-benefits (ACB). The outcome of this analysis confirms what we have always supported. With reference, for example, to traffic flows, the cost-benefit analysis has been carried out with the forecast of two different scenarios, the first of which is based on the forecasts made at the time of the previous cost-benefit analysis on the 2011 project - moreover carried out also by LTF (Lyon-Turin Railway), a company formed for the realization of the studies and preliminary works of the Italian-French common part, that is the company interested in the realization of the work [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - and the second of which is based on the forecasts drawn up by the new Technical Mission Structure in 2018-2019. In both scenarios the project, also considering the savings deriving from the project review, flagdierata to the four winds from the previous Government and never translated into acts (to CIPE there are no revisions of the project) and evaluating only the remaining part of the planned investment, with the exclusion of the resources already employed, turns out to be negative from the point of view of the current economic net value, in particular for the figure of 7.805 million euros in the scenario based on the forecasts of 2011 and 6,995 million euros in the scenario based on the forecasts of 2018-2019. However, over the years many other studies and researches have dealt with the criticalities of the Turin-Lyon connection. There have been many general and specific considerations on the criticalities in the process of evaluation of the environmental impacts of the yards, on the unproved real utility of the project in the overall Italian transport framework, on the destination to it of considerable resources that could be destined to more urgent and long awaited works in the territories of our Country [[Applause from the M5S Group]] (for example, metro line 2 in Turin, the restoration of 13 railway lines - I stress, 13 - for closed commuters in Piedmont, 20th-century railway connections in South Italy or Emilia Romagna), traffic data and the capacity of existing railway lines, the reliability of the work management system itself and controls on health hazards arising from pollutants. This data clearly shows how, in spite of the narration that is made everywhere, the project of the work appears linked to obsolete and unsustainable development models. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These controversial aspects explain the strong mobilization and opposition that the work has immediately encountered and that cannot be ignored by Parliament. It should also be said that, since the original agreement between the Italian Government and the French Government in 2001, the undertaking entered into concerned the realization of the works of the common Italian-French part necessary for the realization of a new mixed rail freight-traveler connection between Turin and Lyon whose entry into service should take place on the date of saturation of the existing works. Saturation still did not happen today. Currently there is no updated and shared evaluation by the Italian, French and European institutions of the traffic forecasts and saturation of the existing works, to which the realization of the new railway connection is subordinate. But it is a fact that the forecasts made in the past have all been resoundingly wrong for excess. Although the European institutions, through some non-binding acts, have indicated the hypothesis (all to be verified) of an increase in their funding, the final approval of such funding will depend on the adoption and future approval of binding acts, such as the future Regulation on Connecting Europe facility II and any subsequent agreements, which, in the event of their final approval, may in any case be valid for all cross-border projects and not only for Turin-Lion. Even in order to assess the possible future impact of such financing by the Italian Government, it would be necessary in any case to carry out the full revaluation of the project. Until now, neither the French Government nor the European Commission, while expressing their willingness to continue the project, have expressed assessments of the elements related to the new analysis of the project, also in order to assess possible alternatives. But let's come to these days. During the session n. 214 of Wednesday, 24 July 2019 of the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Council of Ministers stated that the French State was unwilling to discuss the work as requested by the Italian Government and that a unilateral decision would need a parliamentary passage. We are therefore here to commit Parliament to this, namely to promote the adoption of acts determining: the cessation of activities related to the project for the implementation and management of the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lyon railway link and a different allocation of resources allocated for the financing of the line, in order to promote their reassignment to the revenue of the State budget, in order to be subsequently allocated to alternative public works, more useful and urgent, on the Italian territory and - I add - for Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me conclude by saying a brief personal consideration: to be opposed to this work is not to oppose the development of the country, but to have a different vision. In a context of limited resources, we think that we should say yes to investments that can allow people every day not to waste hours to reach the workplace. We believe that more important is the time of the people to spend with their loved ones or to dedicate to their passions than to do an unnecessary work, to get potatoes or bolts forty minutes before to Lyon. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u6	I call Senator Margiotta to explain motion 153 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u7	Mr President, the whole affair of the FTA, which we are debating again this morning, can be read in the light of a constant figure and unfortunately characterising the action of the Government, not only on this subject. The figure is total hypocrisy, which I shall use many times in my brief speech. Instead, this hypocrisy was opposed to the equally constant linearity of the Democratic Party, which in this legislature, beginning with the question time of 12 July 2018, to continue with a series of questions time, with the motion of 7 March 2019, with the motion of distrust to Minister Toninelli of 21 March and so on, has always and constantly maintained a single line. You, the government and both the parties to the pact, have maintained, just as consistently, hypocrisy. Hypocrite is the phrase contained in the contract, repeated several times by the yellow-green government, also in the motion at the end of March and, just now, by the colleague who has just spoken. The phrase "we undertake to discuss the project in full in the application of the agreement between Italy and France" brings together two concepts not only distinct, but in total contradiction with each other, since this agreement does not provide for any revision of the project. These concepts are not together. The government's willingness to entrust the decision to cost-benefit analysis is hypocritical. It is a clear trick to take time, pretending that technicians can be entrusted with an eminently political decision, with an ad hoc committee, with technicians already oriented and who had repeatedly spoken against the TAV and a incomplete, imperfect and biased report, with predetermined conclusions in fact. It is only a few days ago another act frankly ignoble, that of having removed from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT) the only expert who had spoken in favor of the TAV. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us be clear: even if the report had been perfect and unassailable, what is not at all, it could not have prevented the government from making a political decision. But the festival of hypocrisy continued. On March 7, the League, today the champion of the TAV, rejected our motion, which wanted to make it go forward and approved the "broad" of a motion that reported the contradictory phrase of the contract already cited. Subsequently, how to define if not hypocritical the skillful letter of President Count of 8 March, who tried to support an unlikely distinction between notices for the manifestation of interest and notices, so as to pretend to agree to both the parties to the pact. Then began the paradoxical and ridiculous pantomime of climbing on the mirrors: "No-TAV," "Yes to mini-TAV", "No-TAV," "Yes to light TAV", "No-TAV," "Yes to high speed, but a little slower". There was no crying, it would be frankly funny, but with this charade you kept the country on its knees. We arrive today: the hypocrisies are not over, indeed they have reached the apex. On 1 July, in the Official Journal of the European Communities, notices of invitation to tender are published, as a result of the notices, which were essential prerequisites. On 23 July, the President-in-Office of the Council dropped, at least he, the last veil of hypocrisy and confirmed his yes to the TAV, however, saying that there was an increase in funding - which was not entirely true, to be honest - and the parliamentary group which designated him as President of the Council presented an embarrassed life-saving motion, or at least, according to them, save-dignity. With what effect? Simple: in fact, distrust the President-in-Office for the second time in a few days. After the resounding manifestation of the release of the Senators of the Movimento 5 Star Group, while President Conte spoke here, we are now on a motion calling to do the opposite of what he said he wanted to do. In a normal and physiological parliamentary dynamic, regardless of the final outcome of the vote, this would open the crisis, but here hypocrisy will reach its peak, you will continue to pretend nothing and that everything is fine, Madame Marquise. Are the hypocrisies over? No, because the summa of every hypocrisy arrives on July 25, with the letter of the MIT, which gives the definitive start to the procedures that concern the High Speed, with a small device: the Minister does not sign it, but a director of the Ministry. We're really at the most complete farce. In conclusion, at least for today the Senate can speak for or against. Now there's no more time for games. For or against: tertium non datur. There is no escape for anyone, there is no escape for the government, there is no escape for the majority and their forces, and there is no escape for the opposition groups either. Mr President, the word hypocrisy comes from the Greek word "πόκρισις" and in Greek the hypocrite is the one who acts on the stage. Yours was a staging, a very mediocre show, which fortunately is at the final jokes. The happy ending will be for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u8	I call Senator Nencini to explain motion 156.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that the Senate is holding today on motions is not right and technical: it is essentially a political debate and, as things stand, with the presentation of the six motions it will boast miraculous geometries, such as to annihilate the talent of a great painter like Mondrian. I try to stress this point, because the technical part has already been resolved. There are two technical questions on which the answers have already been given. The first is that if we blocked the 56 kilometers - which cost, colleague grillina, not the figure you said, but have a value for Italy of 4.1 billion euros, this is the precise figure - we would block a TEN-T corridor of about 2,000 kilometers. The second issue concerns traffic on the Alps. Official data say that if in 1967-1968 it was about 20 million tons per year in 2018 it increased to 200 million tons per year. The big one concerns the production world of Northern Italy. So if we shut down the 56 kilometers, the damage would be absolutely obvious. There are four political points that need to be highlighted. The first is a paradox, Mr President. The League makes the TAV and its implementation a political battle, but the paradox is that it does not present any motion in this House today. Therefore, there is no formal and official position of the League sanctioned by the presentation of a political document: and today we are discussing political documents. The second point is a bestemmy. The "bestemmy" is the one provided for in the motion of the Movimento 5 Stars: I have no memory, but I imagine that there is some precedent (and if there were any precedent, today would have been the perfect opportunity to delete it) of a parliamentary motion of the Senate that commits the Parliament itself. I repeat if there had been a precedent, today would have been an opportunity to delete, abrade and remove that precedent. An organ that commits itself, in fact, I find something that, in Italian grammar, is much worse than an oxymoron. The third point is the bluff. If the League does not present a document in question, it thundered so much that it did not rain. The threat of early elections, which every day the vice-president of the Council of Ministers, Interior Minister Salvini, is constantly agitating, is bound to fall into the void. The occasion would have been today, having a divided government and having a President of the Council who made a recent commitment to the Italians, which today cannot be sanctioned by the vote of the Assembly. The fourth, and I have concluded, is the point that I find positive. Today the House is sanctioning the defeat of the anti-system parties, those who regard Parliament as a sort of accident. If today the motions pass, that we can define for simplicity pro -TAV, will be the victory, not of the Government or of a part of the Government, but of a parliamentary majority that says, in confirmation, yes to an infrastructural work and logistics absolutely indispensable for Italy. So, if this decision is to be assessed and taken positively by this House today, we can say: live Parliament! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u10	I call Senator De Bertoldi to explain motion 157 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are gathered in the Senate House to allow a political force that is up to the Government to try to save face in front of its voters. We are here, unnecessarily gathered in a parliamentary Chamber, because a party, which is in the government and cannot support the government that supports, today wants to try to tell its voters that it is against the TAV when its own Government and the President of the Council of Ministers said that the TAV must be done. That is what the Senate Assembly is for, Mr President. I'm ashamed of it as a Member of Parliament, even before I'm a citizen. Moreover, friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, I believe that this attempt to save face in front of your electorate has been largely denied precisely by those who, first, promoted and supported you. I turn, dear friends, to the leader of the no-TAV movement in Val di Susa, who said that you are mocking them - I quote his words - and that your motion is a farce. Then we are all here to discuss and risk a desired crisis of government and the desired elections because some of you, instead of taking note of a mistake and the fact that you have been carrying out an absurd battle for years, are trying to make the TAV with the government hand and, with the other hand, to still do the screaming opposition and say that they are all clumsy. Too bad, friends of the Movimento 5 Stars - I use this term with esteem and true cordiality - that you are the only ones left to say no to the TAV, because the TAV believe our entrepreneurs and all the economic categories, from the smallest to the largest, and all the parties present in Parliament. The vote in Piedmont at the regional elections, in the land where the TAV should be held, was 85% in favour of the TAV. The TAV believes Europe, which assumes the highest part of the cost of the work. Well, it's just you guys who are still screaming no-TAV. Wouldn't it be better - let me tell you - that you have the courage to say "we were wrong," did we realize that with populism we do not build companies, ways of communication and development"? And to my dear colleague Pirro, who signed the Movimento 5 Star motion, I say: other than commuter trains, when we are cut off from the main European communications networks and Italy becomes a very peripheral country, commuters will no longer be there because they will be at home, unemployed, or they will have to take the high-speed train to go abroad, in Germany or France, to work. That is the answer you have to give to these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to illustrate the motion tabled by the Brothers of Italy, which - it seems obvious and clear to me - since the dawn of our political history is for the country, the citizens, the people and development and which wants to bring Italy to the centre of Europe, of that Mediterranean corridor that does not just connect Turin with Lyon. Someone - I think Minister Toninelli - said that he didn't give a damn about going to Lyon with the TAV line. I tell him that the TAV is not the Turin-Lyon route: the TAV, ladies and gentlemen - you should know better than I do - is the route that connects Lisbon, Barcelona, Turin, Trieste, Bologna and Ravenna, to get to Kiev, in distant Ukraine. This is the TAV: it is putting Italy at the centre of European communication routes. You, with your motion, presented exclusively to save face, would like to take Italy outside of these communications. You will have to say thank you - I hope so - at least this evening to the responsibility of the opposition forces, who will probably not leave this House, leaving you with the shame of committing a Parliament against your own government. However, I think it is unnecessary to recall, but I also do so, that it has never happened that a majority political party came out of the Chamber when the President of the Council of Ministers speaks, which is an expression of your political strength and of the government that you represent with the majority of Members. But then I read in the newspapers that, according to Minister Toninelli - that of the no-TAV - his ally Salvini is an evil dwarf: I ask myself then, friends of the League, how do you govern with whom you call your leader an evil dwarf. I think we are making fun of Italians and the Italian people, but we cannot afford it and neither our economy nor our institutions allow it. Brothers of Italy, therefore, with strength and conviction says yes to this motion in favour of the TAV. [[Repented comments from Senator Matrisciano.]] It says that because we believe that the TAV project means two things, colleagues. First of all, it means more ways of communication, faster trade and transport of people and things faster: this is the TAV, but it is not enough; if this is the prerequisite for economic development, in fact, it also means environmental protection. MATRISCIAN (M5S). The third pass has asbestos! DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Of that 3.5 million truck traffic that transits between Italy and France, in fact, 95%, under regime, would thus be carried by rail: this means defending our territory. In the motion of Brothers of Italy, which I invite you to read, there is no talk of increasing forecasts on the transport of goods: we refer to the same 40 million tons that today represent the transport of goods in Italy and that - I repeat - in the light of the more scientific theories, to regime they would see 95 percent transported on track. So, yes at the TAV, therefore, for economic growth, but also for the protection of our environment and our territory. At this point, I also move a constitutional and parliamentary consideration. Unfortunately, I always have to mention Mr Toninelli, and not because I remember that fist raised very well (and also there, with the wrong hand: I should not teach it, but I think everyone knows that the right one is the left and not the right one); let me close this parenthesis, which, however, certainly does not leave me good memories on the part of a minister in a parliamentary Chamber. [[Senator Nocerino's comments.]] Well, I heard Mr Toninelli say that there is no problem, because the motion commits Parliament and not the Government, and I think I heard a similar statement this morning also in Mr Di Maio's statements. Gentlemen, what about the parliamentary ABC? Parliament expresses a government and, at a time when it says something different from what it proposes, conclusions must be drawn from it, friends of the 5 Star Movement. I do not say anything about you being against development and the environment, but at least it has consequences. If your President-in-Office of the Council and your Government take a position with which you do not agree and would like Parliament to take another one, draw its conclusions, be consistent and do not make fun of us or, above all, the Italians. I also find a justification in your behavior. I remind myself and you that forever, at the basis of your policy, there has been the happy decline: the only way to get out of it well, in my opinion, would be for each of you to remember that you are for the happy decline. If this is really still your understanding, here is your position explained. Otherwise - and believe me: I really say this in a spirit of friendship and cooperation, because on many issues we are more in agreement - I invite you to think before putting your motion to the vote, convinced that you would make a bad figure for your voters too. In conclusion, I address the following appeal to the friends of the 5 Star Movement: withdraw your motion, which today has no meaning, give dignity to the Government that you represent and vote on today instead that of a party that certainly has strong and solid roots in its past, but that knows how to look to the future with knowledge of cause and rationality; vote on the motion of Brothers of Italy! [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u12	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 159.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u13	Mr President, you know that I have spoken in this House on the TAV many times since 2001 and today I have even more reason than yesterday to consider the implementation of this work absolutely useless, wrong and harmful. The reasons have added up over the years. I heard Mr De Bertoldi invoke Lisbon. Let me tell you something: Portugal has been out of the TAV project for a long time, since 2013. Then at the end of my speech I will also talk about the end of the French tract. Colleagues, it is clear to everyone that when the President-in-Office announces that stopping the FTA would cost more than realising it, he says in our view things that are not standing, that are not true, both from the economic point of view and from the point of view of the usefulness of the work. I'm trying to explain why this isn't true. First of all, it is based on a promise from the European Commissioner to give additional resources for the implementation of the project and to increase the funding of the tunnel to 55%. They are vague promises and, by the way, we are talking about the old Commission. Therefore, everything is still to be seen. Then there is another problem that has never been solved and that could have been the instrument to challenge the Treaty itself and go to international arbitration. The problem has always been there. In 2004, when the then President of the Council Berlusconi signed the agreement with France, he signed an unfair agreement because, according to the same, we have to bear a greater expense than the Treaty of the tunnel in national territory: Italy pays 58 percent compared to a third of the work in our national territory. There were just no extremes to revise the treaty. There's also another news. In all these years we have argued that the work was disproportionate and useless compared to the forecasts of the traffic goods on that route. Compared to 1997, when the work was conceived, that is more than thirty years ago, things have not only changed ten years ago, but have changed even now. The world was completely different; the traffic forecast was much wider and we had - given to the hand - a reduction in the hypothetical traffic of goods on that trade by more than 30% compared to 1997. In the meantime, everything has moved on to Switzerland and the Gotthard. Switzerland, while thinking of the tunnel, has implemented a programming and a network with regard to the rail transport system within its own country. Not only that. He made a policy to move freight traffic from rubber to iron and prohibited transit of TIR transit, so he did an operation that allowed, once the Gotthard opened, to move all traffic in that direction. These are the serious and not ideological technical elements on which to reason. Not to mention the environmental impact, which has not diminished. Here someone invokes the environment to invoke the realization of the work, but it is exactly the opposite. What has been added to these elements? France in 2017 decided to move the implementation of the work on the national route and to revise it in 2038, because in the meantime in its program it decided to invest first - what we should do using the resources instead destined to the TAV - on another scenario, which is that of the improvement of commuting throughout the national territory, reviewing its investment program until 2037 on this hypothesis of work. Do we go on with the tunnel? But what is this tunnel connected to, since the French national route is postponed to a decision to be taken in 2038? I repeat, France has now decided to move those resources to works which it considers to be much more useful for the French transport system. As far as resources are concerned, I repeat that there is no increased funding from Europe; it is not there to date. Given the iniquity of the distribution of costs between France and Italy and the objective elements of the drastic decrease in traffic on that route, there would have been all the elements for the Government to decide not to carry out the work, or in any case to recontract or to suspend pending further decisions from France. What does the government do instead? Speed up and make your decision. I have participated in so many debates in this House, ideological - at least, someone said they were - and other very technical, but we had not yet arrived at the farce: today's is a farce. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] We already had a discussion in March on the motions, the 5 Stars have already rejected our only motion that was against the TAV project; They are now disguised on a motion which is certainly no-TAV, but which commits Parliament and which never appoints the President of the Council, that is to say the one who said that the work from now on will be done. All this is a game of the parties that is undermining a serious debate that also concerns projects, programming, the transport system, of which there is no trace. For this reason, with all the elements also objective that we have included in our motion, we ask to commit the Government - I emphasize the Government, not ourselves - not to realize the work, because - I repeat - the costs would be from every point of view (environmental, transport and resources) greater than the benefits. We do not play, we have always been consistent and we carry on our battle not for ideological reasons, but because we think that going ahead with the TAV means only and only wasting resources, doing a useless work and sacrificing instead what is really needed in our country, that is to review the whole transport system. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u14	I call Senator Pichetto Fratin to explain motion 162 (Text2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u15	Mr President, we would not have liked to have had a debate today on issues which have been the result of meditated and evaluated choices over several years. In our motion we indicate the path of the discussion that led to the choices of our country, that starts from 1992, when the priority projects for the development of the European Union in the field of transport and energy have been identified; then, again, in 2001, when, under the government Berlusconi, it has been defined the path that concerned the so-called Corridor 5, first Lisbon-Kiev, then Madrid-Kiev, remembering also that, on this track, on the other side today China is planning the Beijing-Teheran and, in the second phase, has announced the Tehran-Kiev. The trains have already arrived from China, with a journey of over 11,000 kilometers, passing, in this case, from Germany. In 2012 the works began; in 2018 the procedure of this piece of Corridor 5, which is Turin-Lion, was completed. Italy, in the middle of the Mediterranean, is in a strategic position, positive and negative, even with the difficulties that result: the recent vote concerned one of the central issues for our country: we talk about immigration and security. Italy however crossroads of the traffics of the world and can be to a greater extent or can be cut off. In the negotiation of the years between 1995 and 2000 the track of Corridor 5 should have passed north of the Alps; our country did a battle to have it south of the Alps, not to be cut off. Therefore, the debate and the choice that we are going to make today with the vote on motions in this House not only affects us at the same time, but essentially affects young people, indeed very young people. It is a bit surreal, because it cannot have become a debate for even partisan positions and to fill the media with statements, except that the vision that you want to represent is that of a model of marginality, backwardness, of the suitcase in hand towards other shores. Do we want this for future generations? Colleagues, perhaps I respect all this also goes into the background (I say "maybe" but I regret it) to break institutional commitments, agreements, contracts, approved laws. We start from 1992 to move on. It is true that this country has not always kept its commitments. Think of wars: the allies of the beginning have never been the allies of the end of wars, not always in a negative sense, personally. Forza Italia has never had doubts and hesitations and it has always been for a precise choice: economic development, progress, which means work, well-being, being at the centre and giving environmental sustainability, which is one of the objectives that had been set in 1992. That is why there is the union between traffic, transport and energy. It was the goal of Kyoto to arrive, in the coming decades, to transport 50% of the goods without pollution, to serve people in the most healthy and efficient way. Collegi, we are in Rome; how many take the high speed from Milan or Turin to come to Rome and realize how important, healthy, useful in terms of efficiency and well-being? Opponents of the project rely on sustainability, cost-benefit ratio. In these costs-benefits fuel consumption has been indicated as a positive element, because they certainly generate excise duties, and, on the other hand, motorway tolls, although strangely the relationship with Autostrade is a bit difficult for a part of this Government. Highway tolls are considered a positive one, because they clearly determine revenues from the highway company and automatically taxes for the state. But perhaps the elements of the well-being assessment of the people cannot be these, they cannot be the flags. We are not for the choice of backwardness; we are not for the factory of the unemployed. Forza Italia has always been decisively and proudly in favour of development, without hesitation, so it wants the TAV (high-speed train) to the south of the Alps; it wants economic development, which means progress and occupation; it wants the defence of the environment, which, with objective achieved, at high-speed built, means one million less vehicles that cross the Alps; it wants for the Italians the benefits of development and not the marginality compared to the rest of the world. That is why our motion concludes by asking for confirmation of the commitments that the Italian Republic has made with the other European partners. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u18	SACCONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I should like to add a few comments on the motion that we have tabled. Finally today, with this act we put an end to this charade. Today, at last, the Senate puts an end to this tragicommedia fed mainly by the 5 Stars. You see, President, today is an attempt not only to deceive public opinion, but to humiliate our fellow citizens, because of humiliation of the intelligence of our citizens we must speak when a party that is a relative majority has a no-TAV motion and asks, at one point, for the cessation of activities related to the project for the realization of the TAV. Get back on the ground! Here is the letter from your President-in-Office of the Council, Count, which gives nothing to prevent the continuation of the work. Stop this hypocrisy. With this methodology the Italians are turning their backs on you. You are fooling not only the country, but above all yourselves, because, it is true, you have arrived in Parliament thanks to the "vaffa-Day" but the "vaffa-Day" has filled the pockets of Beppe Grillo and filled the squares, but with the "vaffa-Day" you do not govern the fifth power of the world. That is your contradiction. President, we lost a year. Even there is a minister named Toninelli who in this year wanted to tell the country that there was a need for a commission to verify the relationship between costs and benefits. We lost a whole year because that committee acted falsely and you even know what happened to those who voted against in that committee, namely engineer Coppola? He was kicked out. You were the streaming party, the transparency party, the debate enlargement party, and cast out those who do not agree with that report! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This has happened, and that is the main reason why you lose support today. I tell the friends of the League: today again this infamous minister of the infrastructure Toninelli, called Minister Salvini a dwarf who walks on the shoulders of the giants. I do not know what the size of Minister Salvini is, it is not up to me to say. But I am absolutely certain that the five stars in the government have shown themselves not to be giants. You see, President, from now on, this Movimento must no longer be called 5 Stars, but 5 Deceptions. Today the deception of the TAV, the deception of the TAP, the deception of the Ilva, the deception of Atlantia is closed. You said, the day after the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, that you would kick the Benettons out of the management of the company Autostrade for Italy. Not only do you not kick them out but you also give them Alitalia, and in the end - and this is your de profundis - you even said yes to the derogation of the two mandates. Today it is the de profundis of this Government, but above all of the 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u19	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u20	Mr President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, as a Piedmontese, I could not but speak. I travel to the Frecciarossa and see on the Frecciarossa that there are colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Frecciarossa crosses the galleries from Florence to Bologna, or vice versa, and from Florence to Rome, which are added up to the length of the building gallery. To these colleagues who do not mention (maybe I look at them, so I avoid naming them) I say: come by bicycle. I have already come twice to Rome by bicycle in my life, I dream the third and say that it is possible. Come with the regional break-ins. If there were no high speed, conceived and realized by the Berlusconi government and the CEO Moretti, a great administrator of the Railways, we would be in the Middle Ages. How were no-TAVs born? They were born from the left, which unfortunately accompanied them until ten years ago, pretending to be here yes-TAV while in Val di Susa contrary. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They were born from the antagonists, from those who after the approval of the security decree bis declared that they can no longer go around with the helmet to rifle the cops and normal people, all the people we represent, interclassists and workers of every category. They must go to work and not be antagonists and no-TAV marches. Then unfortunately no-TAV movements are also normal people who believed you in good faith. Then they say that it is the fault of those who invented the no-TAV movement if they created divisions in Val di Susa, in families and in countries. Go see the local elections in the Val di Susa countries what they have become. These are fractures that last years, decades. 10:01 a.m. (Perosino followed). So why say yes to the TAV line and no to the first motion, that of the 5 Stars? This has already been explained by colleagues: development, goods and passengers travelling at high speeds and thus avoid pollution and reduce stress. Because those who are against the TAV today were already against the Frejus motorway. And what is the Val di Susa today? Where would you go to France? Our ancestors had more common sense, one hundred and fifty or two hundred years ago, when they started digging the tunnel, they passed a bit bent there because they were low, then gradually they were enlarged, but sometimes they are still those: I mean the tunnel of the Colle di Tenda. Making the TAV gives and will give work for years. There will be greener, because it will be a green ordered around the stations and in the modern construction system. There will really be development. In front of us we have this famous degrowth. At first I did not understand what it was when the 5 Star Movement was born, then I realized that it was really unhappy (perhaps except those who are part of it). Then you can also govern by making a budget in debt. But yes, we do the debt, then someone will pay it, maybe we will win the Totocalcio, maybe the saints or those who come will think of it. We are the Puritans - some say - because the Italians are all evaders and are all corrupt and corruptible. I see the ones who pronounce these sentences. Let's hate each other beautifully that you can also live By hating us. I want to represent - and I repeat - workers of all categories: manual workers (who are still there), employees and self-employed people who wake up in the morning to earn the day. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I want to speak on behalf of the Yes-TAV Movement, which here is represented in the gallery by people who have worked so hard. And I close by saying that we of Forza Italia and all the center-right (I say this on purpose: all the center-right that still exists) are for life, we are for optimism, we are for love, we are for beauty and friendship. So live the TAV and live the best Italy! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u21	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u22	Mr President, on one point I agree with Vice-President Salvini. I agree with Vice President Salvini because he has supported and argues that the Movimento 5 Stars and its representative are not able to represent the infrastructure system of our country. Minister Toninelli, you are the recipient; you must resign and you must go home! [[Applause from the PD Group]] But probably this concept too, for Minister Toninelli, is a little difficult to understand. I will not dwell on the importance of our country's strategic infrastructure. The TAV is not an infrastructure that concerns the city of Turin or the Piedmont Region, but it is an infrastructure that affects the international dimension of our country. Nor do I dwell on the cost-benefit analysis, a clown, a joke that exposed our country to the ridicule, substantially undermining its international credibility. I'm not even talking about mini-TAV, but I'm starting with the yellow-green contract. In that contract you say that you undertake to suspend the work and to discuss the project in full. Now what? What happens, after President Conte says that the work must be done absolutely and that Vice President Salvini - even on this I agree with him - says that we have wasted too much time and that we must run to open all the other yards generated by the thousand no of the Movimento 5 Stars? To President Conte, who came here at the beginning of the parliamentary term to explain to us Article 1321 of the Civil Code governing contracts, and who is now absent, I ask what is currently the defaulting party from a contractual point of view. Majority and government are two separate and distant forces or not? What do we explain to the Italians today? Who pays the default bill? Well, if the professor and President of the Count Council doesn't know, I'll tell you that the contractual responsibility is yours. He must resign and go home: him, the government and this majority! [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Minister Di Maio, like the Movimento 5 Stars, has fattened from a political point of view, with the thousand nos starting from Piedmont and landing up to Sicily and today you have been buried by a pernachia of the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars Perino, who told you that you have lost political dignity. You don't have the dress of political dignity. Airola, you're in your underwear! Get up and walk and proudly look at your no-TAV friends who have organized consent for years to this side! [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group.]] We don't need applause. As far as the motion is concerned - I am addressing you, Mr President, but in particular to the President of the Senate - how is it possible to make a motion binding on Parliament admissible? The Houses are two, the motion can commit this House, not the House of Deputies. That's not possible. It is a scam motion, aimed again at the organization of consent. It is unheard of, it is absolutely impossible to accept it. And then what do you do? Today Minister Di Maio says that Parliament must be committed, because the government has nothing to do with it. But if it doesn't have to do with the government, you have to explain to me why in March you approved a motion that commits the government to revise the high speed and now Parliament becomes the protagonist. You're shameful. [[Live comments from Senators Marco Pellegrini and Croatti.]] Today, however, you have inaugurated the High Speed. Because with such a high speed you change your mind.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u23	Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, please let the speech end, then the Presidency will consider disciplinary. Don't take functions that don't compete with you. Please, Senator Laus, terms. If they give me the chance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, I invite you to conclude the intervention because we are at the limits. Mr Laus (PD). They're upset. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the presidency, Senator Laus. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] Senator Marcucci, they've all been fairly called back. Let's try to end Senator Laus.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u24	I would like to express my solidarity with the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, because they are experiencing a moment of difficulty. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Wolf]] Today you have inaugurated the high speed of thought, because you have managed, with an impressive speed, to change your mind in no time, from evening to morning. Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Wolf]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u25	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, today I address the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars: we thought there had been a whim, after the attempt to justify you through the cost-benefit ratio of a work like the TAV had failed. We thought you had put your souls in peace, after you remained the only ones still waving the flag "No TAV," while the majority of Italians are in favour. But instead... [[Brusio]] BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr. President, a little silence, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I apologize, Senator Gallone. I would ask colleagues who are in the centre of this House to take their seats as possible and to allow the speeches to be made even to those who do not have the same voice as Senator Laus. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Please, Senator Gallone. I was saying that we thought you had put your souls in peace, after you remained the only ones still waving the flag "No TAV," while the majority of Italians are in favour. And instead cyclically in this legislature, when you see your consents dropped, when your government ally takes away your arguments, you always propose the same story: the opposition to Turin-Lion. We understand that there is very little left for you to promise and you have emptied your political soul for an unnatural agreement, but make it right. Take your responsibilities, because it is really disarming the continuous chase of the internal beats of a government that is blocking the country in the continuous pull and release, without a strategic plan and without any vision. [[Comments of Senator Marco Pellegrini]] Will you or won't you tell us what you want to do with Italy? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do you or do you not tell us how you intend to give answers to all those who saw and see in the project the possibility of having a safe and stable job for years, to all those Italians, to those entrepreneurs, to local communities, to citizens who demand development and competitiveness? How do you intend to respond? Are you guys gonna stand by and watch this? Italy since ancient Roman times has played a central role in the Mediterranean and Europe, thanks to its strategic position, and has maintained it by building infrastructures and great works, useful to connect our peninsula with the rest of the world, without fear of the future; building a network of connections that have created and grown a nation, which, although small, still represents a world power. But you don't. You don't care about the fate of Italy. To you, with selfish presumption, just your happy island where you collect votes in exchange for useless promises, sterile welfare and slogans. You prefer an empty, empty Italy like ideas, annihilated; a firm Italy - as I have already said - like a buoy in the Mediterranean. We don't. We want the Italian locomotive of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As the world runs, you care about your ideological dogmas, which you no longer believe. But does it take that long to figure it out? Do we really want people to believe that other countries can go and build the underground railways, such as the Channel Tunnel, and can we not modernise a tunnel built in the 1800s? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What you want to block is part of Europe's future metro and it serves to move 18% of the European population, in regions that account for 17% of European GDP. If Italy were to pull itself out, it would be excluded from any revenue and we would not be competitive at all. What about the environmental issue, which you care about so much? The Turin-Lion line will save on transport costs and eliminate 3 million tonnes of CO2 per year. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] A country that doesn't move is a country that's still. Italy can't afford to watch anymore. Will you stop holding the Italians hostage with your whims? Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, in your motion you ask for a pronunciation of the Parliament to exclude the continuation of the activities connected with the realization of the work. This pronunciation from the Forza Italia Group you will never have [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because we are for Italy, for its development, for its growth, for work, for the economy and for the environment. Put your heart in peace, let the Italians work, who luckily, despite you, will do the same. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to start with the commitment made in the majority motion, that of the 5 Star Movement, and I would like to ask whether we are serious about writing that we must start, in Parliament, a path to promote the adoption of legislative acts. That is to say, we want to commit Parliament to commit itself. Mathematically it would be called a meta-commitment; in practice it means carrying a bill repealing the law of ratification of the international treaty. It would have been enough to present a bill here. (at 10:18 a.m.) (Following MARTELLI). It would have been a bit unfair from the point of view of international law, because, being a bill of ratification of a treaty, good international practices want a government meeting to be held first, in which one of the two governments communicates to the other the intention to withdraw, renegotiate or refer to the arbitration court. At that point, Parliament ratified what was decided in the government. Frankly, this is a fact that makes very little sense. That being said, being a parliamentary motion, it would already be out of regulatory scope even if it committed the Government; it would be a motion which commits Parliament to commit itself. You understand, then, that such a debate is not serious. If we want to vote on a motion that commits the Government to stop the work, there is motion 159, signed by Senators De Petris, Nugnes, Martelli and other members of the Mixed Group. The motion exists and therefore it is sufficient to vote on it if that is the intention. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, arises from the moment you sat down at the table to write the government program and decided to discuss the realization of the work again. You understand that, when you move from the "no" to the "talk," thus entering the negotiating phase, it means that you are open to the possibility of someone coming and proposing an offer that you cannot refuse, such as - for example - paying all the work. If it becomes a negotiating issue, at some point the negotiations are closed: if anyone wants to do everything, they can no longer be said no. So, the mistake was made upstream. I would like to know with what head who has a no as a political reference do not say not to sit at the negotiating table if first you do not put the no in white and you can do the rest, but not this. So, with more than 300 Members, plus all the others, have you not thought about it? It may be, but I think we had to think about it. You understand - and I want to say this - that the reasons for the no and the reasons for the yes are effective. There are reasons for the no working and reasons for the yes working. There are cost-benefit analyses that say one thing and analysis that say the opposite and they are both right, because it is a political issue. At least, I had understood this and I believe many others of the Movimento 5 Stars had understood that it was a political no, a no to a certain model of development based on the transport of goods, that it wanted to move the goods to move the GDP. Maybe I misunderstand, or maybe a lot of people misunderstand. I do not know that yet, but we certainly do not enter the negotiating phase if we are not, because the negotiating phase provides, at some point, for a closure of the negotiations which, under certain conditions, must be favourable. This is the first thing. The second point concerns the famous cost-benefit analysis. With regard to what I was saying, there are real reasons for saying yes without bringing up Lisbon and Kiev, who called themselves out, and without passing the railway line Corridor 5 to Ravenna, which is slightly off the road. There are, however, legitimate reasons, which I do not agree with, to say no. However, I cannot accept that statements of the type "the realization of the work is a gift to the cement party" are made by those who at the same time, boasts to have unlocked yards for 70 billion including the external ring road of Bologna, which has always been recognized by the local Movimento 5 Stars as a waste of money for a useless infrastructure, and many other roads and highways. Compared to this release, which is the cement party, of 70 billion, you understand that the money for Turin-Lion represents a fraction. So, that argument can't stand up to it. In the same way, I cannot hear another nation calling into question that it is a gift to France. We need to talk about this because, even with regard to costs, inaccuracies have been said. The Turin-Lion line is not a hole in the mountain. The Turin-Lion line consists of 270 kilometres, from Turin to Lyon. The hole in the mountain connects Saint - Jean -de- Maurienne to Susa and is 57.5 kilometers long. The cross-border trade, which is longer and is called cross-border because it involves the two borders, is 65 kilometers: of these 65, 45 kilometers are in French territory and the remaining 20 in Italian territory. With regard to the tunnel, 12.5 kilometers are part of the Italian territory and the rest only in French territory. The distribution of costs, ex ante, allocates 40% to the European Union - always our money - 35% to France and 25% to Italy. We can admit that, in fact, the costs are unfairly distributed. Of course, we should understand why the agreement was concluded in those terms, but that is not relevant now. It is, however, a reason to refer to arbitration, which is contained in the agreement, in order to redistribute costs. But it is not a gift to Macron, because he was the first to say that he does not build anything in his national route until the base tunnel is realized; and this is because, without the base tunnel, it is useless to equip itself to realize more than 100 kilometers of railway. So let's say things as they are, without necessarily finding the scapegoat, that once it's France and once it's another part. Bad guys exist, but to a certain extent. Having said that, as far as the realization itself is concerned, let us make a comparison. This work was conceived before the beginning of the work of the AlpTransit project, which included part of the base tunnel (base gallery of the Lötschberg of Mount Ceneri, Zimmerberg and San Gottardo). Those tunnels, however, have already seen the light almost all, while we have not yet started, because basically there is no idea of what to do with the tunnel. There is no idea of what to do with the Turin-Lion railway line, because, if you had it, the line would be completed immediately, as the Swiss did, who started work in 1999 and finished in 2016. That is why the new railroad is not happening. Again, on traffic flows: we must recognize that that director is dead. She died because someone made a better offer and traffic was diverted. The historical line will never reach saturation, also because carrying the goods costs too much: you have to bring them to 1,200 meters, you can not carry the trains from 3,5 kilometers and you have to climb in triple traction. Then you need two zavorre for when you go down, the radius of curvature is narrow and the interbinary is too small. The line will never reach saturation, therefore, because it costs too much. But if there is no saturation because the goods make another round, does it make sense to increase the supply of tunnels, hoping to compete with Switzerland by subtracting some goods? This is the reasoning that had to be the basis of the zero option, that is, that of not realizing the work itself. Another issue concerns the movement of road transport from road to rail. Apart from the fact that there are strange bonuses in the national energy and climate plan that still support road transport, we must understand that rail transport in the European Union is marginal right now. As far as freight traffic is concerned, the figures are as follows: there are 30 billion kilometres travelled in a year by goods transported by rail, there are 3,000 kilometres travelled by road. It is a factor of 1 to 100, although, in fact, since a train carries, per unit of kilometers, more goods, we should say that it is a ratio of 1 to 10, given the average length of trains. First of all, the problem is legislation, in the sense that the movement of transport from rubber to iron must be imposed, and not left to a market rule. Switzerland has done so, and if we really want to make sense of this work for those who want to do it, this must be the first point. There is one last thing about the further allocation of resources. To detractors who say that development and progress stop, I respond that there is currently something on which funds could and should be hijacked. I am referring to the railway node of Florence, which provides - for - the realization of a high-speed sub-crossing, with entrance before Rifredi and exit at Campo di Marte. 968 million euros have already been spent and this is an open-air construction site that no one sees (we need to look at the pictures taken with drones). A lot of money has been spent on design and a station has been designed in a pharaonic way. Shall we talk about relocating resources? Let's put them back in this work that would favor a knot really needing to be decongestant. We must do this rather than create a tunnel just to do something. These are the real reasons why we must say no, at the political and governmental level, to the realization of the new Turin-Lyon railway line. And I said everything. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it might be useful to resume today, just over a year after our inauguration, the speech we have made in this House on the TAV. Right here the Brothers of Italy Group tried to be understanding and to welcome the Government of the so-called change. We had hoped that austerity policies could somehow be reviewed, with public debt and its return at the centre, and the issue of interest on debt, which leaves no room for investment for our companies, our economy and our people. We had hoped that there might be a real reversal of these policies. Unfortunately, however, we have to see that, a little over a year ago, there are very few answers in that respect. In the meantime - I say this as a member of the Commission, public works, communications - we are suffering incredible damage and we are experiencing an inexhaustible tragedy that will remain in history. I am referring to the blood of the innocent victims of the collapse of the Morandi Bridge and the damage to the image suffered by our nation, which is also immeasurable. There is a strong need to review the issue of infrastructure, with a cut that is not ideological, dear colleagues of the Movimento Stelle. The answer to employment cannot have an ideological legacy and it tells you who, instead, has a background and a history behind that are the exact opposite. We are for the marble that wins the swamp and for the great public works, because a nation is great if there are great public works. We are in line with our history and we would like Italy to reunite and make peace with its best story, that of the aqueducts, roads and great connections that have envied us all over the world. We are not afraid of competition from this point of view. Italy has today - on this we must not have ideological prejudices - a structural deficit that costs the country 70 billion euros only in exports. Do you know what $70 billion is worth? There is all the difference that exists between thousands of open shops and thousands of closed shops. They mean less taxes, more services and hundreds of thousands more jobs than our infrastructure can give Italy: they are our future. If the 5 Stars knew Italy as they said they knew, they would know that this is the real emergency. With the happy decline and the income of citizenship, unfortunately, we do not solve the problem that exists in so many parts of the South, colleagues, where you have taken a vote. Let me give an example that does not want to go in the direction of populism: on the occasion of our birth, there are empty chairs, because we lack our best children, who in the meantime have tried luck on the other side of the world. We do not return them with the income of citizenship, with the tip or the theory of happy degrowth: we return them if - and only if - a serious policy ensures that there is development and the intervention of the State really gives the desired results; only dignity and work can give hope to our nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] According to Confindustria, however - and we are not the party of Confindustria or the strong powers - it is quite obvious that, if we did not make the TAV line there would be even 50,000 jobs missing: it is worth it and we cannot afford to miss this train. Brothers of Italy - as I said before - is for culture favorable to the great works: we are for the TAV line, for the Pedemontana, for the High Speed up to Reggio Calabria and to give back to the South lifeblood, not to abandon this part of Italy that needs serious public investments as bread. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] In this regard, I want to close my speech with the words of Giorgia Meloni, our leader: the TAV line remains the only way to defend the national interest and Italians; do not make it cancel the possibility for Italy to be present in the European trade network for the next decades. We do not surrender to the decline: you will see us continue to fight to give hope to our homeland and to make it resume its role in the world, dear President. That is why we are in favour - and we could not fail to be - of the great structures that serve a great nation. We confirm our favour with the TAV line and all the great works, to make Italy become a great nation again. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u32	Mr President, if I were to mark today's debate, I would say that it is symbolic issues day. Let's start with the noblest, that is, the banner of the battle and the social name of the 5 Star Movement, the so-called happy decrease, or rather the non-growth. Here is the noblest part - so to speak - on which we are absolutely alternative in substance. The challenge of the third millennium is not not to grow; but, after the most serious crisis you remember in the last century, it is like growing differently and what is the alternative model of development, because, when we finally get out of this very serious crisis, nothing will be the same as before. This challenge, however, you have decided not to take it up, and that is why we are alternatives. From here, decreasing, let's move to the lower parts, so to speak: there is a fiction, because you put as an alternative investment in infrastructure in other parts of Italy, when we know very well that there is a partnership with Europe and investments and agreements with France. I would ask subtlely where the investment policies - the real ones - are in the infrastructure, when you are forced to use the surplus of the policies you fail on the income of citizenship - because you have no planning - to freeze the infringement procedures. Where are the investment policies? Have you explained this to the Italians? Are you gonna explain it to him sometime? Then there is the other symbolic part and, that is, the instrumentality of riding the protest of movements. Here is a strong symbol of our time. Politics no longer has the function of collecting the conflict and giving it a political outlet, because you have chosen to represent the conflict in the institutions; you have chosen to use Parliament to represent the conflict. However, I would like to warn you that you are in the government and, therefore, you must try to resolve something. Always decreasing in nobility point, we arrive at other representative and symbolic parts. The motion commits Parliament and not the Government, because in this Executive the Movimento 5 Stars is no longer able to commit anyone and nothing. That's the truth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The motion runs counter to the President of the Count Council of this Government - and not that of another country - and there is no majority supporting the Government anymore. This is the representative part and - alas - not only symbolic. The motion should serve to cover the shame of how much you allowed it to pass without injury. I quote some titles: the shame of the security decree- bis, the condons, the law on self-defense, which translates into weapons at will. I'm just quoting a few. It's a shredded dress that can't cover pudendas. Today you are the most extraordinary prop in the constituted power that no longer has reason to be because it lacks the majority. Mr President, I should like to end by quoting, since we would also like it to be an educational moment for everyone, a well-known Rodari fairy tale: the emperor's new dress. It is the representation of the powerless that you have illusoryly thought to interpret by deceiving the Italians against the constituted power that kills the freedoms, at risk at this moment in the republican history of our country. At some point, when the emperor is without clothes and no one dares say it, there is a child who, in his naivety, cries out that the king is naked. Today is exactly what we are witnessing: the king is naked. The government has no majority and you have lost your virginity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u33	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u34	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 August 1857 the subalpine Parliament approved the law authorising the great futuristic work of the Frejus tunnel with a very important allocation for the time: 41.400.000 lire. He passed by 98 votes to 30 against. The main antagonist was Congressman Cristoforo Moia, who supported, along with many others, the very serious negative environmental consequences that the excavation of the 12 kilometers of tunnel would have caused. Several experts of the time did not exclude were located inside the mountain streams of incandescent rock and copious underground streams that would overwhelm the miners and sweep via Bardonecchia and its valley. The current tunnel of the Frejus, inaugurated in 1871 and 13 kilometers long, reaches the 1,335 meters of height and is to date the only Alpine railway passage between Italy and France. However, the adventurous 1800 project is no longer functional; on the contrary, it is now at the limit of the dangerous. (at 10.40 a.m.) The current draft in fact holds a series of criticalities and negative primates that limit its potentiality. The tortuousness of the track, due to morphological problems, allows the transit of convoys at most 550 meters long, compared to 750 of the European standards. The gradient, which reaches 30% at some points, also results in the use of three locomotives for the traction of freight trains, resulting in an increase in costs, energy consumption and pollution by 40% higher than European competition. Also due to the slope, the maximum towing allowed is only 650 tons compared to the 1,600 of the Gotthard tunnel. The gap between the tracks, of only 341 cm in front of the minimum allowed by the European standards of 355; the lack of smoke suction pumps and the total absence of safety exits make the tunnel potentially a deadly trap in the event of an accident. Due to these problems, traffic on the route has lost 71 percent in favour of road transport in the last fifteen years. Only 8% of goods travel by rail against 29% of Austria and 70% of Switzerland. This situation also reverberates on the cost of transport per tonne, which is 67 percent higher than that of the base tunnels present or in realization on all the passes of the Alps (Gottardo, Cinderi, Brennero and others). Italy is a country with a strong manufacturing vocation supported by export. In fact, exports have grown both in economic value (plus 4.1 percent) and in volumes (plus 3.1 percent), and they move millions of tons each year. 92 percent of freight traffic between Italy and France is highway; more than 740,000 trucks per year (source SITAF) cross the tunnel. The reason behind the need to replace the old crossing point with the new basic tunnel of Moncenisio is the technical-functional obsolescence that results in lack of safety. The morphological difficulties of the territory that nature has given to the Region have however been compensated by the good God, that it has wanted that the Piemonte was strategic in the intersection of the routes of the goods between Rotterdam and Genoa and between Kiev and Algeciras, main port of connection with the African Continent. One hundred and fifty years after the opening of the Frejus, the Moncenisio tunnel project is part of Corridor 5, also known as the Mediterranean Corridor: 3,000 kilometers of railway to promote economic trade in the South of the Alps in regions representing 18% of the population and 17% of European GDP. Of the total 162 kilometers expected, 18 percent have already been dug; nearly 30 kilometers between the main reed and four descendants and security bypasses. Yes, because the new Frejus has a security bypass every 333 meters. The usefulness of Torino-Lion has already been widely argued. Under the Connecting Europe facility plan adopted by the European Parliament on 17 April 2019, Europe will increase the Community contribution from 40% to 50%. Thanks to this novelty, almost all the funds in charge of Italy are already allocated. The withdrawal from the contract - as indicated by the cost-benefit analysis commissioned by the MIT - would cost Italy 3.55 billion, without considering 100 million operating costs for the closure of the yards and the management of the disputes, and the 350 million that have already been spent, that would therefore go in smoke. Now I intend to address the questions and critical issues posed by those who do not believe that the work is functional to the country and is useless. The project is old: false. The final project was approved in 2018 after a consultation process with the territory that saw the development of 205 working sessions, three hundred hearings of technicians and experts and ten alternative routes. It is dangerous for the health of citizens: false. No criticalities were found in more than 62,000 environmental measurements carried out by ARPA in the Chiomonte yard alone. I didn't read wrong: it's more than 62,000. All the Turin-Lion yards are subjected to a rigorous system of environmental controls based on the Italian style adopted in Val Susa, where the control units monitor the parameters within a radius of 15 kilometers from the yard. All sites have a water treatment station and cooling tanks for extracted materials; periodic checks on watercourses near the yards have never detected any trace of pollution. Moreover, from the ecological point of view, to which we are all right now very careful and sensitive, the passage of goods traffic from rubber to rail would lead to a reduction of greenhouse gases equal to the production of carbon dioxide in a city of 300,000 inhabitants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; To understand us, a city like Catania or Bari. Again, it is said that there is a danger of mafia infiltration. The Turin-Lion shipyard is the first case in Europe with translational application of anti-mafia regulations in Italy. In short, from this picture it emerges that the economic relapse of this work will be important in the future for the entire country, but it is already important for the enterprises and workers of the territories affected by the excavation. In total 800 people work at work, of which 530 are employed in the yards and about 250 between service companies and engineering. The work will give employment to about 4,000 direct workers and as many in the induced. In this regard, I would like to point out that no base camps have been created and planned, precisely in order to generate an immediate economic relapse for the territories annoyed by the yard. Note, too, the multiplier effect of the investment: each euro spent produces a contribution to national GDP of 3.77 euros. But even if that were not the case, the work should go on anyway. For investments with an economic return to twenty or thirty years there are private enterprises; transgenerational investments must be provided by the State. When you say it's a gift to Macron you say it's a fake: it's a gift we give to our children's grandchildren. Just as the current tunnel has served six generations of Europeans, there is the certainty that the new tunnel will allow the transit of at least as many generations. Although 78 per cent of the tunnel is on French territory, it will be jointly owned by Italy and France until 2114; after that date, the convention will have to be renewed. In pointing out to this House how well-known, specialized and sought-after Valsusine workers throughout Europe are for this type of work, one cannot fail to recall the more than 400 wounded by criminals among the Forces of the Order. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] who take advantage of the TAV question to attack the institutions of the State through its uniforms. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is money, a lot of money, which, yes, I'd like to see saved. To them I repeat that they have no saints in paradise, nor guardian angels in this Government and certain attitudes will no longer be tolerated: those who break must pay. In short, isolation is not good for Piedmont. Europe is behind this and trade, trade and movement with Europe are good for economic development. Doing or not doing the Frejus means progressing or regressing the Frejus. These are not my words; they were not even said by Matteo Salvini, but they are of the greatest statesman that Italy has ever had and to whom Piedmont had the privilege of giving birth: Count Camillo Benso of Cavour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have spent hours talking about how many lies have been told, unfortunately even to a President-in-Office of the Council perhaps ill-advised, in fact, with all the threats of loss of funding at 55%: there is no INEA letter to establish it, but there is a commitment. Even France has not yet allocated a euro: there is a commitment. The CIPE has allocated small pieces and has committed itself to budgeting the cost of the entire work. All this, including Article 1 of the Law of ratification of the Treaty of Italy-France of 2001, which says that until the present work has been completed we do not go to build the new work, would lead any person of common sense and respect for legality - because these are laws and not things written at random - not to carry out this work. There are dozens of other reasons that I cannot, even for matters of time, remind you of. Surely there was once a League meeting in Chignolo Po, where he had a sort of Northern Parliament in which Salvini sat, in the left wing, when Borghezio went to ask for votes in Val di Susa against the TAV. Then came Cota with his foresight and intelligence and said that the work had to be done and kicked out those who did not want to do it: in the face of the possibility to be masters at our home because we gave up a part of the sovereignty of the yard. That construction site, by now, is a fort that could also be dismantled because where the forts are built then sieges are made, and the people of Valsucci could also be freed from this work - I repeat - useless because it speaks of goods, it does not speak of people. I tell you something new: the French minister wrote to the prefect, reporting the detailed program and saying that while waiting for the construction of new sections, the railway line in use and modernized Dijon - Modane will be the way to the base gallery when it enters service scheduled for 2030. So there's a document that says that Torino-Lion will not be there. There will be a Turin-Dijon and considering that we will transport goods and not people, as I have heard, maybe we will have mustard twenty minutes earlier than it is currently. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Are we isolated with the TAV, the historical line? Yes, Mrs Casolati is right: it must be modernised. Actually, the Italians did a great job. It is the French who have made a mistake on their side and therefore the trains that can already pass with the TIR on them, since the French have missed a few centimetres the height of their part of the tunnel, must switch to alternate traffic. But then it would be much less costly to modernise the existing, which is used to 15%, before we engage in an unfair distribution, on which President Conte could also intervene. In fact, the French will pay a billion for their 45 kilometers, while Italy will pay another four, plus a billion for its 12.5 kilometers. Then you could restart this expense, taking up the speech with Macron, although Macron clearly says that with the Italians he has no time to lose. This is another insult to our country after the fact that italo-French society has even allowed itself to come to do expropriations in Italy under French jurisdiction, with anti-mafia rules that were added later, otherwise there weren't. To those who say we're against the high-speed train I say that's not true and I always take it. But I would like a TAV, Mr Laus, between Rome and Matera, for example. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to see an extension of the North-South and East-West TAV line on Italy that needs it. Then we must modernise the existing one, because I do not know if it is true what I have just heard about the fact that we travel on local bustling trains; well, there is a question to ask: why the French minister Borne clearly says that, waiting for the Italians to do this tunnel, first they will modernise their lines and will make the Modane-Dijon and anyway they will stick to the base tunnel to go to Dijon and save 11 billion, instead of going to Lyon and make five galleries? In the meantime, they are modernising their entire local line. That is what we should do, given that - as I have already had the opportunity to repeat (if you want me to quote the documents, but that is not the case, since I have already done so and you can read my speech again) - there are no penalties. I can quote articles, you can challenge Article 17 of the CEF, you can challenge contracts and not pay penalties, as happened to Portugal and other countries that have renounced. Not only that; history is also denied that these funds would not be usable for other purposes, because they can actually be used for other works. The negotiations for the multi-annual budget 2021-2027 could provide for different funding for ecological transport. This unique allocation between the European Parliament and the new Commission has not yet begun. The Italian Government could prove that it is more ambitious. As a matter of fact, we pay 4 billion lines at home when they spend one; at the very least Count could delay this expense, which is greedy. On the question of the million jobs, these are certainly not done with the TAV line, but, dear Ruspandini, with works throughout the territory, especially in the South, as you said. And if we are to cite the Melons and defend the interests of Italians, this is the right opportunity to defend the Italian law by the League, by Brothers of Italy and by the PD, [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Laus exhibits a sign with the inscription "5 Stars" change their mind at High Speed. ♪ sitav ♪ ♪ sitav ♪ ♪ sitav ♪ ♪ sitav ♪]] One last point: solidarity would give more to slave workers at EUR 3.50. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u37	Talk to the presidency, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u38	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I feel I am witnessing a somewhat surreal debate. Still the TAV line, after eight Italian and French Governments that have signed international treaties, including the 2016 signature of President Mattarella. And I find it a bit surreal that those who signed the motion are against the High Speed, many of whom take the train at High Speed weekly to come to Rome from Naples and Salerno. You can always change your mind: it's from smart people. On the other hand, the idea changed the PD too, when in 2001 it barricaded against the objective law of the Berlusconi government to start the great works. Then, on December 5, 2009, when the High Speed Torino-Milan and Rome-Naples were inaugurated, the MPs were all there at the central station of Turin, with President Berlusconi and administrator Moretti, for such an important event. I also remember the election campaign of 2008, when we asked loudly as Forza Italia, which has always been "without if and without but" for the high speed in our country, a response from the Democratic Party, because Mercedes Bresso, then president of the Region, had been elected with the votes of the no-TAV in the Valley. Now, in the last regional elections, Sergio Chiamparino has almost always been in the lead of the "yes-TAV" marches, but I wonder, dear colleagues of the PD, that you have rightly tabled a motion today, why not let all the "no-TAV" mayors of the Valley of Susa out of your party. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Be consistent, too. I remember the great bad emotion when I went, a few years ago, to visit the Chiomonte shipyard with other parliamentarians and made us wear bulletproof vests and helmets, because from the bridge over the yard the no-TAVs threw everything. I thank the Forces of Order who have suffered these violent assaults for years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would also like to thank all the workers who are equally affected. We do not forget, from Piedmontese, that the local companies working on the site have received threats to their family members, they have seen their means of work burned. All these things you should recognize. I don't want to continue living with memories, but I still have a good memory, thanks to Heaven, and honestly hear the words of the former deputy mayor of Turin who says that the TAV line doesn't exist and that the future is not to carry washing machines, but ideas, if I think of the ideas with which my city is governed, I shudder. Rightly, however, Montanari resumed the picturesque affirmation of Minister Di Maio to a public television, when he practically claimed, a short time ago, that the economic boom of the sixties were the highways and the current economic boom, which is in the eyes of all, are the digital highways and does not need to transport goods on rail because by now the goods are transported thanks to 3D printers. I must say that fortunately the world does not think like Di Maio, we know that the high speed Turin-Lion will connect to the corridor 5 European Lisbon-Kiev, we know that the high speed Beijing-Kiev and our goods, even the fresh ones and the Italian agro-food, will be able to arrive in 24 hours in China. We think that China is developing a high speed to be connected, by submarine rail, with the United States of America. What are we talking about? I really hope that this is the last time in this Parliament we talk about TAV, because I would have preferred to talk much more about the problems of stagnation, beyond the fact that we know that the economy of a country starts again when the great works start again. I would have preferred to talk about stagnation, job losses, corporate crises, families in difficulty, and yet again - and I really hope it is the last - we need to talk about TAV. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u40	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u41	Mr President, I am speaking quickly in response to the debate. The position of the League on the TAV line has long been known, so we invite you to vote in favour of the TAV project and against those who block the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u44	Mr SANTANGELO, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I am speaking not on a personal basis, but on behalf of the Government and I thank all the senators and fellow senators who have spoken in this debate to express their views clearly and explicitly on this subject once again. The Government has already delivered its opinion at the headquarters of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to further acquire Parliament's direction, we refer to the opinion of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). President, how many governments sit on those benches? [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Pharaoh.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u45	I would ask Members of the Movimento 5 Stars and Senator Pharaoh to speak outside the Chamber, because we are talking here when we speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u48	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say from the outset that our Group will vote in favour of all the motions calling for the Turin-Lyon TAV line to be continued. This work has had seven cost-benefit analyses, to which the last commissioned by this Government has been added. And this too, as President Conte said, has confirmed that interrupting the work would cost far more than the benefits. The great works, when born in a context of attention to the environment and safety, bring economic development and social progress, break down the distances between people and for the goods, increase the safety of the transport and free entire territories from the pollution of the road transport. Torino-Lione is only part of a more comprehensive work, which aims to create a connecting corridor that crosses all of Europe; one cannot stay out of it, unless the objective is to isolate Italy from the great trade and economic flows. Moreover, the project has undergone a profound re-examination since 2005, when a significant part of the requests of the local communities has led to the development of a new project more attentive to the environment and able to strongly limit the risks associated with its construction. Moreover, Italy has signed international agreements that would expose it to a number of disputes and appeals, in addition to the fact that the already implemented parties should be the subject of a costly security intervention that would last years. Colleagues and colleagues, in my territory, with so many affinities with the Val di Susa, we are proceeding to an equally important work. The Brenner tunnel is 64 kilometers long and we look forward to the completion of this work, because every year from the axis of the Brenner passes two and a half million heavy vehicles; you can easily imagine the repercussions in terms of pollution and safety. If you want, it is a much more complex work than the TAV line, yet everything proceeds under a safety regime for the 2,100 workers who work there and for the environmental impact. Moreover, when it is finished, Austria, Italy and Germany will have to adapt and speed up the remaining railway line between Monaco and Verona. In this way, Italy will be given a fundamental infrastructure for the connection with the heart of Europe, which will make our countries closer, just as, for ten years now, cities like Rome, Bologna, Milan or Florence have become closer after the construction of the High Speed. The way of working for professionals and workers travelling on this axis has changed; costs have been reduced and new opportunities have been built. So think how things will change when we have two high-speed European routes. Blocking the TAV would mean a resounding step backwards, that of a country that is isolated from the rest of Europe, a country exposed to an escape route that is not written anywhere, in the dark, full of costs and unknowns. For this reason ours is a convinced yes to the TAV line and to the agreements that Italy has concluded in international framework. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u51	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to yet another debate on the Turin-Lion high-speed line, and it seemed to me to be yet another piece of theater, which some of my colleagues have described as a stage, of which the House of Palazzo Madama is simply the stage. Certainly it does not serve to deliberate guidelines for the activity of the Executive; it seems to me that it serves to regulate, or simply to accommodate, the umpteenth daily confrontation between the two members of the Government; in some way it is also a protection to the vice minister Salvini, who does not even need to present himself or defend his positions, since the opposition is taking charge of it, strangely. Members of the 5 Stars are so aware that, climbing on mirrors, they have managed to table a motion that, in order not to bring the government into play, simply addresses Parliament asking to disassemble the TAV project: it is quite strange that the Senate commits itself, but this is what the motion requires. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For days, as a member of More Europe, I have been asking all opposition forces to leave this confrontation to the only political forces that are interested and involved, without offering sides to one another and without politically legitimizing this misuse and propaganda of parliamentary institutions. I note with regret that - it seems - the main opposition groups have decided instead to lend themselves to this game and to participate, legitimizing it, to a vote that is limited to photographing the overturning of the relationships of force within the majority, giving Salvini the pretext to present himself as new dominus of the Executive and also offering the 5 Stars the alibi to have been beaten thanks to an inciucio or an agreement between the League and the opposition forces, because this is politically what is happening. In my opinion, the participation of oppositions in this internal confrontation with the majority serves only - it is said - to prevent a possible government crisis, the bluff, an everlasting and stuccoly daily threat that is proposed to us every day. Salvini has an easy life: when he encounters a problem that threatens to bring him before a trial, his loving colleagues 5 Stars defend him; when this Parliament strongly demands that he come to report and give information about his relationship with Russia, you lovingly defend him. It is true that gratitude in politics is not at home, but Salvini's reaction to you is daily offensive and disdainful: I hope you realize that. As far as I am concerned, I am therefore not taking part in the vote on the motion tabled by my five-star colleagues. With regard to the other motions tabled by the opposition groups, I am voting in favour, starting with the one I submitted as the first signatory together with a group of senators, whom I thank for the support. I do not want to retrace here, of course, the history and saga of this project, but I am obliged at least to clarify to those who dream of using this contribution from Europe for the Milan metro, which we are talking about the TEN budget line (Trans-European Networks); this serves and cannot be used to do anything else, which would also be useful. [[Applause from Senator Beginini]] To make more useful, you have to find more funds. In concluding my speech, I want to make one last appeal to the opposition forces: leave League and Movimento 5 Stars alone in this clash. I shall vote for the motions, but do not offer sides to one another. Let them show all their divisions and draw the inevitable institutional consequences, but do not take them away from embarrassment. The League has not yet even been able to speak a word, it has not presented motions, it has not intervened and perhaps it will deserve to do so in an explanation of vote. That's it, that's not it! They didn't need your crutch. [[Applause from Senators Mantovani and Ortis]] You'll only be charged with doing something wrong to save this government. Because there is fear in the bluff of the government crisis and elections. If you're so scared, we're not going and you're not going anywhere. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, unfortunately, as we have already said in explaining our motion, the substance of the TAV issue is now in the background, because once again we are discussing it in this House, almost on the verge of a crisis of nerves. I'm sorry to say this, but the Movimento 5 Stars filed a motion, perhaps to save their conscience and say that they tried, hoping in every way to fail, not to question the government, despite the confrontations, threats and everything that happened, obviously, even two minutes ago, when we heard two members of the government say different things. See that this is not a good way to proceed, not only for yourself, but also for the country, because the discussion on the TAV line would have deserved something else on your part, in this year and a half of government (in fact it has been a year and a half). Not only should you not have bowed down, but perhaps you should have had courage when we discussed TAV in this House in March last year. You had the chance and instead you made another motion and another agreement down with the League, but the knots eventually get to the comb. We cannot think that we can continually lower our flags or that we can build a scene like the one on the air right now in this House, with a No-TAV motion, which commits Parliament, with the hope that it will pass another one and that it will fail. It is not even an attempt - this is the point - to unite the forces of those who, like us, have always been against the TAV line and have tried, with their motion, to bring all the motivations for the non-realization of the work. What's on the other side? All those who are going to vote in favour of the TAV line - I don't know if it will be the Democratic Party - including perhaps the League, once again put in place the usual repertoire of these years, in this unfortunate country. I use the adjective "disgraceful" because we are the country that exalts the great works, but then it doesn't matter whether they are realized or not, because the important thing is that there is a round of contracts and that on this we continue to go on. In a while we will even hear about the bridge over the Strait, because what is being recreated is an axis that we have already known. When that unfortunate agreement with France was made in 2004 by the Berlusconi Government, it was the epoch of the objective law, it was the epoch of the society of Lunardi, the only one who had the mole to make galleries. That's what we've been up against these years. In the end, as to the substance of the matter, the usefulness or not of the work, we continue to argue that it is useless. At the end of all this, for the country, perhaps, it will remain a tunnel. Maybe we'll build you, like the Gran Sasso, another physics lab, and we'll do the research a favor. As I have explained, France has decided that it will be discussed again in 2038 and that there are no numbers for freight transport. Therefore, the decision that is being directed, once again, does not represent a favor for our country and is not useful. This country desperately needs serious transport planning. We are in a city where a bus burns down a week and we are discussing throwing resources into this tunnel. We have a South that needs infrastructure, many works, it needs a real plan of transport and sustainable mobility. [[Applause from Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] France itself says that numbers are not enough and the paradox is that we, who pay more, are moving forward. But none of this matters to this House. There's only fear here that the government will fall. But subalternity is a serious problem. You are the relative majority party; so you have entered this House. Then, however, one after the other, you had to suffer the Diktats of a party. I turn here to Senator Airola: that's not true! But when was the League no TAV? 11:24 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). You knew perfectly well! The League was to the Government with Berlusconi and with Lunardi, during the objective law, when, precisely, was signed that unfair agreement with France, from which all the problems, even of resources, for this work derive. You wanted to fool yourself, because you had to sign that government contract, but that was not the case. So, though, you don't go far. Not only do you not do the good of yourselves, but do not do the good of this country, because this country needed to have clear positions and to prove rational in the choice of works. Instead, once again, you have done the opposite and are here to be afraid that your motion cannot be approved. We, even if we do not agree with Parliament's commitment, will vote in favour of your motion, because we are no-TAV, because we can consistently be on the subject, because coherence is a serious value for us and allows us to move forward and continue our battles. Of course, we will vote against all other motions in favour of the TAV, except ours, which is no-TAV. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Pellegrini Marco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u57	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I signed the motion with Senator Bonino as the first signatory to report my position on the TAV, as I had the opportunity to explain in a previous debate a few months ago. I think it is clear that the TAV has very little to do with this debate. In fact, it has nothing to do with it, since, in order to change the position, as colleagues and colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars know, a primary rule must be changed So, this is a fictitious exercise. There is a Senate that has already been expropriated, by the Government and by the majority, of its function of merit on all the most significant acts. Now a political problem, concerning the coherence of a majority force and a confrontation with another majority force, is improperly dumped on Parliament, on the Senate. For me, it is something new and unacceptable. This is wrong, because we are not already discussing the TAV line, but another political issue - all political only - which has been on the agenda for weeks now. The unprecedented theatre between Deputy Minister Garavaglia and Undersecretary Santangelo is the plastic demonstration of this dramatic situation. In essence, in the majority there is a political break that now appears no longer to be resolved. The only thing that holds is fear, linked to the management of power, other than change. The clumsy attempt to cover up this reality, ladies and gentlemen, is an impossible mission. It is clear to everyone that this is the reality. For this reason, I intend to avoid this representation. I will not vote - at any vote - because this operation, laughable and politicist, is not acceptable to me. [[Applause from Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u60	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether there is a precedent in the parliamentary history of the Republic of such an absurd and surreal situation as the one we are living in the Senate today. We have been summoned in haste to discuss a motion by the main parliamentary group present, the Movimento 5 Stars, which - in fact - is an act of accusation by a government force against its own majority, the only ally they have and, ultimately, also against the President of the Council. This is certainly a consequence of the fact that President Conte has announced - not in Parliament, in fact, but on Facebook - that the TAV line will take place and is also a direct, immediate and equally obvious consequence of the fact that the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars decided to leave the Chamber when President Conte came to the Senate to report on the so-called Russian financing scandal. Well, we wonder what President Conte's fault was. That I finally told the truth? If the President-in-Office of the Council is to blame, it is probably to have said this truth late and to have hidden (as you have done for so many months, especially in the election campaign) that the TAV project had to be done. It is also true that one could not fail to do so. President Conte has invented one a day not to tell the truth, using solutions that are right and clever infinite, but in the end the truth is stubborn and has come to the surface. The situation, therefore, is what we are living. We have just witnessed a tragicomic situation, in which two members of the same Government - a Undersecretary and a Deputy Minister - have given different and opposite indications to the vote of their majority. Unfortunately, this does not surprise us either, because it is from the beginning that we say that this majority cannot be together, as it groups too different and irreconcilable political forces and it is an illusion to think that we can contain within a few pages of a government contract the infinite difficulty of the government of a complex country like Italy. The position of the Brothers of Italy party is very clear and we wrote it in our motion: make the TAV, let's not waste any more time. We wonder, Mr President and colleagues - but these are rhetorical questions for us - whether a country like ours, which unfortunately has had an infrastructure deficit for many, many years, can give up a project like this and whether a country that has been discussing for thirty years the vital need to transfer traffic from rubber to iron can give up a high-speed stretch intended essentially for this. Or do we have to live up to the conclusions of the cost-benefit committee, which, with contempt for danger and even humor, has written that we must not make the TAV, otherwise the trucks will not run anymore, we will not consume gasoline and we will not pay the excise duties, so they will miss their revenues? We don't do the TAV anymore, so neither will the trains, trams, metro and electric cars, otherwise who will pay the difference in the collection of excise duties? That is what we have heard. Our country - which records 280 tables of crisis at the Ministry of Economic Development and a growth of 0.1 percent - if it goes well - this year should give up a billionaire contract, fire thousands of workers, return the money and pay us also criminals: this is the political choice that would like to indicate the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] But can one govern a country, which is however a great economic power, with the counterculture of no and the subculture of saying always and no, regardless? And then, Mr President, re-reading Mr Toninelli's statements is like shooting at the Red Cross: exactly a year ago, as today, when he addressed the villains of the opposition forces, he literally told them to put their hearts in peace, because the manger - compared to the TAV - was over. Almost the same expressions used another great exponent of the 5 Stars - who does not sit in Parliament, because he prefers to dispense his wisdom from other more pleasant and exotic locations of the parliamentary classrooms - when he said that the manger and the business committees are over. With respect to these statements, Minister Salvini - who I believe is the dominus of this majority - stated not later than yesterday, August 6, what is read by an ANSA agency, that is, literally, that Toninelli is not up to managing the infrastructure of a country like Italy. Mr President, if the climate and the situation are these - as is objectively evident, because I have not invented a word or a comma - Mr Toninelli where he finds the courage to remain in his place a minute longer? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We wonder, someone will answer us. And where is Minister Toninelli today? Aren't you here to defend your reasons? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] If it is true what you say, that you are the real antagonists of strong powers and business committees and that you must finally change the course of Italian politics, I also ask Minister Toninelli this simple question: where has the withdrawal of the motorway concessions to the Benetton Group ended? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You have even approved a standard shield for officials, which protects you from possible compensation actions in criminal, civil and accounting matters, but the concession remains where it was; indeed, with Benetton you are also preparing to do business in the field of airports. Think of saving your face - and perhaps also your conscience - after everything that has happened, by tabling a motion that I could call a kind of heated soup, of fresh water, because - be careful - it is made by Parliament and, if approved, as it reports, Parliament commits Parliament. This is also a truly extraordinary and resounding novelty that Minister Di Maio explained to us yesterday, who had the courage to say that the motion is nothing important because it concerns Parliament and not the Government, as if the Government did not receive confidence from Parliament and as if the Government could govern without a parliamentary majority. There are two cases: Minister Di Maio needs a very quick and intense review of the Italian Constitution or - this I believe is the real hypothesis - we are faced with the hypocrisy that has become an instrument of government. That's the truth. If, as you say, the TAV is a set of waste, manger, favors for business sharks, if it is a scandal, if it is a violation of your government contract and especially if the approval of the pro TAV resolution is the clamorous denial of what Ministers, Vice Ministers, Subsecretaries and Members of the Movimento 5 Stars have said, then the road you have before you, if you have a minimum of courage and coherence, is only resignation. Leave the word again to the Italians; give the word back to the citizens. You can choose whether to save your face and coherence or to save your positions of power and your political career, but you have already made the choice and it is unequivocal. However, two masters cannot be served at the same time. Colleagues and Ministers of the Movimento 5 Stars, you have done as Andreotti would have done, who in situations like this said that it is better to draw to life than to beat the shit out of him. That's what the grill revolution consists of, after so many announcements. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The parable of the grillin revolution is the ancient illness of Italian politics: transformation and opportunism. Stay against every reason and against your own reasons clinging to this Government, but not to do, to propose, to build, but to criticize, to prevent, to slow down and to postpone. This does not govern the country, it does not administer Italy, it does not open the yards and neither does the TAV. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u63	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr Vice President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, authoritative colleagues, I am leaving to try to undermine a climate that seems very tense today. Today I feel like I'm at a first theater. There are all of them: Vice President Salvini has come, Minister Toninelli has arrived and even, after a long time, we see on the same benches of the Government the Ministers of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's good news. The government, perhaps, has never been as united as it is today. However, the theatrical play we are going to attend is unfortunately that of the theater of the absurd and the absurd in politics cannot and must not exist. The mere presentation of a motion by the Movimento 5 Stars against the TAV and against the official position taken by the President-in-Office of the Council - regarding the President-in-Office of the Council, we strongly hope and wish that the Oscar Prize candidate will also come as the best non-protagonist actor in this play [[Applause from the PD Group]] - shows the country, the political community, the institutions and Parliament that this majority no longer exists, dear representatives of the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I understand and am humanly close to you. I am referring, in particular, to the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, who of so many promises made in the electoral campaign, probably even in good faith, fail to keep even one. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am humanly close to you, because I realize that this creates frustration and concern to return to the territories and admit that in the election campaign you have promised things you could not keep, some things you could not do or, in some cases, only in some cases, you simply told lies. I am humanly close to you, but so it is. You promised things about Taranto and we know how it ended. You promised important and relevant issues about the TAP and we know how it ended. You had made commitments - and you have gathered a lot of consensus - on the issue of the TAV and we know how it ended, how it is going to end, that is, how it was inevitable, and I say - being the Leader of the Democratic Party - how it was right that it was: moving forward on serious commitments, on an important and strategic work for our country, that the Democratic Party wanted when it was in the government and that it continues to want us to be in the opposition today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If the majority is divided radically, plastically, on the country's most important work and investment in recent years, it simply means that the majority is no longer there, that the President of the Council must go to Colle to resign, that the political and institutional situation of this country must be put back in the hands of the Presidency of the Republic: this means and you must take note of it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not enough what we proposed, constructively, in March of this year: it is not enough to replace Mr Toninelli. At the time we presented a motion of individual distrust because, in our opinion, Minister Toninelli had and has serious responsibilities: he is one of the Ministers who is the cause of the economic crisis in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] He is perhaps the main actor of that policy of the "no" and of the investment blocs, despite the huge resources that our governments had made available to this country; despite this, you wanted to block Italy, you wanted to bring us to our knees. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The position of the Democratic Party towards the TAV is therefore clear. But our position with regard to this Government and the majority who support it is also clear: this majority no longer exists, this Government must go home and the judgment is negative in all round. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It is negative because yesterday, contrary to wishes, you gave confidence, although not reaching the magic number of 161 votes, on a measure wanted by Minister Salvini, which is wrong, which attacks only NGOs, which does not defend our country does not defend our fellow citizens, does not improve our security. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But it serves to go to the beach to tell his story, which is far from the truth and far from the interest of our country. Our judgment towards the Government is also clear on the economic front, given the bad results and the measures you have taken, which also want to change culture in negative with respect to the fundamental heart of our living politics, which is work. You have tried to do this too, and we condemn you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have to go home and you have to go there now. You cannot force the country to continue in this painful, dramatic and stormy situation. I realize - we see it every day - that by now not the king, but the "captain" is naked. I have to say, it seems to me that you really like it naked. [[Applause from the PD Group),]] because this is how it appears all the time, and this, personally, also seems to me unworthy. But, having said that, it is naked: today its majority no longer exists; its Government, in which he is the only one who dictates the line, in the face of the 5 Star Movimento projects and programmes, no longer exists. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I repeat: it no longer exists. So what do we do? As a last ratio, as an extreme defense-defense of what? Of the positions, of the power, of the armchairs - we try again, with determination and perhaps agreeing between the League and Movimento 5 Stars, to invent this ridicule against the country, the public opinion, the newspapers. We come to make fun of Italy and we decide to do so in the parliamentary classrooms, where there is a motion that commits not the Government but Parliament, where we say things that will not help. You wrote that motion together. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You wrote it so that whatever the outcome may be, it does not have consequences for your status, which is finally your personal well-being, for each of you, for the Government. It is a shame that you put Italy to this way of doing it and (after a year I saw you in the Government) to this way of being. On everything you support everything and the opposite of everything; on everything you try to mock the Italians; on everything you try to humiliate Parliament, to humiliate the Senate, not to allow it to fully understand. But today Italy will have the possibility to understand simply if on the main and central work of the plan of the investments of our Country there is or is not a majority. He's already found out, it's clear. I disagree with parliamentary mechanisms and tactics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ). Each political side must simply have courage: the courage of transparency, frankness and sincerity towards the country. The Democratic Party has tabled a motion, which I wanted to amend so that it was very, very clear and transparent: we are in favour of this work, we will vote against any motion against this work. But the political data is independent. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Mr President, it has been nine minutes and twenty-three seconds. You have to tell me why the bell rings. And, please, let me make up for this time. The political framework is clear to all: the main parliamentary force that supports this wretched Government is against the TAV, these investments, and is in favour of the blockage of investments and the country. What the League says is irrelevant to me; the majority no longer exist. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today's sentence is still written and says that Count must resign. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are here to certify that transparency must reward. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Stop! Go home. The country can't do it anymore; it can't do it anymore than your lies, your fakes. You cannot keep making fun of Parliament and Italy. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD Group, whose senators stand up. Congratulations.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Everybody home! [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u66	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. Mr Laus (PD). Everybody home! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). If that's possible, thank you. I heard during the general discussion many groups talk about the surreal climate today. Actually, there's a little reason. On the one hand, we have a motion tabled by one side of the majority, which basically wants to call for the blockage of the FTA when the government has already decided to move forward; on the other hand, there are minorities who present a motion that commits the government to move forward when this has already been decided. Someone talked about the surreal climate, some kind of theater. I don't know. We, in the face of this day, behave consistently, as we have always done. The League has always been consistent, so we will certainly vote in favour, as Vice Minister Garavaglia said well, of the motions for the TAV and against the motions that instead want to block the work. We have given our government partners, during the course of this year, the opportunity to discuss in some way the details of the work, which was then the content of the contract, but without absolutely questioning the realization of the work. Positive news has also arrived, which the President of the Council himself has highlighted, because the board of directors of TELT, recently, has led the European Union to increase funding to 50% for cross-border projects related to the ten-t corridor, so with particular regard to Turin-Lyon, which can increase by 5%, so it can increase to 55%, because the project on the new line is managed by a bi-national public promoter. So there are some elements that have made the benefits rise compared to the costs, regarding cost-benefit analyses. We can also understand - I say this without problems - when the Movimento 5 Stars brings on the scene of Italian politics an element of respect and protection of the environment. You say something right and of common sense when you refer to the fact that when you have to design a new work, perhaps you have to pay the right attention also to respect for the environment, in the face of what happened in the past, when perhaps a certain ideology on the great works did not take into account, in order to realize them, all that was around and the needs of the territories. This discourse is fine, it is right and it is common sense for future works that will be carried out, but for the works that have already been financed, designed and that must be finished, this discourse does not apply, it does not make any sense at all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups and Senator Steger]] Above all we say this at a particular economic moment like this, when all the Groups recognize the need and the will to make investments, which become really important, fundamental to make this country grow, for the famous gross domestic product. We are also talking about this at European level: there is a debate, there is the will to ensure that investment expenditure comes out of the famous parameters, numbers, numbers and deficits. So it is clear that this is an issue on which we cannot stop and wait. The country must move forward, so it is necessary that the investments and the works continue. There is no time to make cost and benefit analyses on the works that have already been planned and that have to start. There's no time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] The country does not have time, also because if we really had to block this work - this is another fundamental point - what credibility could a country that entered into an agreement at international level and after 10-15 years it takes it back and calls it into question? Any foreign investor would say he's going to invest anywhere but in Italy. It is also an issue of credibility at international level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] We cannot fail to take this into account. It would end up coming from us no longer to invest anyone and therefore we would not have GDP growth, we would have economic problems, with all the consequences also and especially for the government itself. Then, let us not forget this, let us not pretend anything, it is true that the motion tabled by the Group of the Five Stars today commits Parliament and not the Government, and this might suggest that there are no political issues, but let us not hide ourselves: the political fact and the political issue remain open. We share and we could also understand - I say to my colleague Patuanelli - the historical positions of the MoVimento and therefore the reasons why, at the identity level, the MoVimento wants to put its flag on this issue because it is also born with the opposition to this work. However - I say this to all my colleagues - if you are a member of the Government and the President of the Council has declared that the work must be done, you must be in favour of the TAV: there are no alternatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] It is a question of the overall credibility of the whole Government. On such an important subject - it is useless to hide - like the TAV, it is clear that having two majority parties, one voting in one way and the other voting in another, undoubtedly puts on the table a clear, obvious political issue that cannot be denied. [[Comments from the PD Group]] There is no point in hiding, because those who vote today at the TAV will take political responsibility for the choices they will make in the coming days and months. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Laus]] I would kindly ask Senator Laus to let me finish. I would like to make it quite clear that we have done so many things in a year - I am convinced - and there has also been a very positive parliamentary relationship with my colleague Patuanelli and, especially in the Senate, with us and our colleagues from the 5 Stars. We have often and gladly extinguished fires - as Patuanelli knows - that perhaps were born in the same government. There has been a great relationship, however, today, in the light of what the country needs, which is to grow... BELLANOVA (PD). The country needs a government! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ... We can no longer accept the blocking of certain fundamental works, the blocking of autonomy, the blocking of justice reform and the blocking of tax reductions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Too many obstacles prevent this government from making it possible for the country to grow at a certain speed. We want to move forward and we don't want to go back. Everyone will take responsibility. Mr Laus (PD). You have to go somewhere else, home! FARAONE (PD). Home! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt, let me finish. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Isn't there a bit of concern between the PD benches? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group. Senators Pharaoh and Laus nod with their fingers]] As was said, it seems to me in a television show: "Fear," huh? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To close my explanation of vote, I am voting against the motion tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars and the motion tabled by Senator De Petris of the Mixed Group and the vote in favour of all other motions. THE MURA (M5S). Bravo! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I have to say that here the PD made a masterpiece, presenting a one-line motion: it was impossible not to vote in favour. [[Ironic applause from Senator La Mura]] You've applied a lot, it's really a masterpiece: I congratulate you. Beyond that, I declare on behalf of the Group the vote in favour of all the pro-TAV motions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, FI-BP and FdI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u69	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, many of my fellow senators, today I have to say that, thanks to the motion tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars against the TAV, a large majority in this House has clearly emerged in favour of this line and that is a good thing. There is an even larger majority in the country, as has been seen in the results of the European elections and in the results of the Piedmont elections, where more than 85% of Piedmontese voted in favour of lists that, in various ways, are in favour of the TAV. We are satisfied with this. We are particularly pleased with it as Forza Italia, because for the realization of a work like this it is not enough two months and not enough even two years, not enough a Government, even if it lasts the whole legislature: it is a work that must look to the decades and we in the decades have always been, on every occasion, in favor of the TAV, when it was convenient and when it did not agree. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We were when we were in the National Government and when we were in opposition in Rome; when we were in government in the Region and when we were in opposition in the Region. When in 2001 there was the senate college that included, in large part, the Susa Valley, you could hold more defiled and softer positions and say "we see" or "maybe" at least in that college; instead we decided (I was the candidate for the Senate) to be clearly in favor of the TAV. LICHERI (M5S). And why didn't you? MALAN (FI-BP). However, we managed to win, even by a thousand votes, that college. We have never blandito (respected yes, but blandito no) or candidate the mayors no-TAV of Val di Susa: we never did it, even when it would be agreed; for example, in the regional elections of 2005, we lost by a few thousand votes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are aware that we have done our duty. It is thanks to the constancy over the years that these works can be done, not just a proclamation, not just a day, not enough two months. We note today that there is a majority on the TAV. As far as the Government is concerned, we have just heard strong words from the President of the Lega Group, Senator Romeo, about the political consequences that should or may have such a strong division on such an important issue, confirmed by a government contract. We would not have signed a contract in which it was written that a line that was already under construction was being discussed in full. Exactly a year ago, many of us were with the then President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani to see that the line is already dug in the final tunnel, already a year ago, for kilometers and kilometers. We were there, unlike Minister Toninelli, who never went to see him, at least out of curiosity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Malpezzi]] We have been in the square, at the demonstrations of the yes-TAV without party signs and we have also organized one ourselves. We would like to see the consequences, you cannot keep the country blocked, because the political consequences, of course, if the two protagonists of the majority manage them, but the real consequences fall on the country, a country blocked, with zero growth, which means a country that does not give opportunities, that takes away the money to the citizens, takes away opportunities for entrepreneurs and takes away jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Really, then, on this we need an answer, it is not a problem of quarrels between the partners who occupy the news and frankly have really tired, but it is a problem of the real country. We're interested in that. Mino Giachino, former Undersecretary for the Infrastructures of the Berlusconi Government, says that the king, at the time of the decision on the tunnel of the Frejus, was concerned because there was about 20-25 percent of the subalpine Parliament (by the way 204 MPs for a state of four and a half million inhabitants) that was against. Well, the Earl of Cavour said: Your Majesty, we must make common sense for that 20-25 percent too. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have always put it there, we will put it and when this line will open and give many opportunities to everyone and everyone will use it as today everyone uses the line at high speed that the Berlusconi Governments have done for Italy, we will be satisfied and we will know that we have done our duty. [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u72	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, President Romeo is right when he says that the word that may have been most recurrent in the speeches of all has been surreal. It has been said that presenting this issue at this time is surreal, that talking about TAV is surreal, that surreal is the motion of Movimento 5 Stars, that surreal is a motion that commits Parliament itself. I believe that the first surreal thing is to forget that this is a parliamentary Republic and not a premiered one and that therefore the political debate is taking place in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] GALLONE (FI-BP). You forget it! Giro (FI-BP). What are you talking about? Patuanelli (M5S). Today we are giving rise to a constitutional dictation: there is a political debate between political forces that also think differently, without always putting the Government in the middle, because President Romeo knows - and he said it before - how many times we have had to intervene precisely to try to exercise this prerogative, which is that of the centrality of Parliament. Let us do it today on this issue and not on others. Giro (FI-BP). The tuna can! LANZI (M5S). Shut up! Patuanelli (M5S). It is also surreal that the debate on this topic has been held much more often only with tweets or comments that do not enter into the matter, but we are talking about a simple infrastructure and the infrastructures are realized when they are useful to the country, we analyze if they are useful to the country, it occurs if in their useful life they will bring an economic return and we decide whether to do them or not and even if to go back to the ideas that others have had thirty years before, because we can also think that you can return to their ideas. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then, on the one hand we have always had the promoters of the intervention to say that it is a useful work, because it will move the traffic from the rubber to the railway, that it will be an environmental saving, that there will be an economic motor, that it is useful for the transport of the goods: [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] On the other hand, there are those who oppose this work and say that all these objectives (which are certainly acceptable, both from an infrastructural and environmental point of view) are not achieved through it. We must then ask ourselves questions and give answers, perhaps on a technical basis, because this is an infrastructural work, it is not just a work that creates and widens the political debate. What is the TAV? It is not a high-speed train, as some colleagues have already said, but a railway line where freight trains will reach their maximum... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u73	It's not possible to interrupt all the time. Please, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u74	Patuanelli (M5S). I never get angry when I'm interrupted. Don't worry, each one responds to the things he does and highlights himself for what he is. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is a mixed line, with interoperability characteristic, where goods will certainly pass, probably also passengers, but never at high speed. The existing line has a maximum speed between 120 and 140 kilometers per hour, exactly in line with what will be the new railway line. Corridor 5, which is supposed to link Portugal to Ukraine (Lisbon in Kiev), is a hoax that hasn't existed in years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is the Mediterranean corridor, the route number 3, which is planned to connect Spain to Hungary (so not Lisbon to Kiev): most of the planned routes of this route have not been realized, countries like Slovenia and Croatia have already said that they will not proceed to their realization and therefore will remain, if ever, a single section realized. I would also remind you that the European Union's own technicians say that this really is a possible bottleneck of a European corridor, but it can be decommissioned with a new infrastructure or by intervening on the existing infrastructure, which can be done and which we have been proposing for some time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is the historical line saturated? No. The historical line carries 14 million tons per year; in the last year it has brought 3,4 million tons. The historical line is not saturated; indeed, it can carry almost four and a half times the existing traffic goods. Is freight traffic growing? No, the freight traffic is in total decline. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am not just referring to the railway one, because of a question of intermodality and modal exchange that is not there, because in constant decrease is the traffic goods on the historical line and in total decrease, for a long time, it is also the transport on rubber. We are talking about about 40 million tons of goods that are traded between Italy and France on those borders, but in the last ten years it has suffered a decrease of 12.3 percent. I am referring to the total traffic and not only that on the railway network, in which it could be said that obviously we must intervene on the infrastructure otherwise the transport of the goods does not use it because it does not work, it is the traffic of the goods that is in decrease. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then there is the question of cost. In this country, every time you intervene on an infrastructure and you start to realize a work the estimated costs at the beginning are less than half of the final costs and therefore today we are talking about spending 11 billion euros on the international trade, but we do not know how many we will really spend. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Malan said that one piece is already made: it is a geognostic tunnel, it is in axis and in the diameter of the infrastructure but it is not the infrastructure and the others are descendies. I just ask to know the things you say in here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And the costs, in the international trade that will cost us about 11 billion, are divided into about 57 percent for Italy and 43 percent for France, and why? Our national route is smaller and costs less, while their national route is longer and costs more, but there is a small detail: there is a fasaggio, which perhaps few know. The fasaggio says that the work is done in stages: it is done in international trade and, when it is saturated with existing national lines, it will go ahead with national projects, which will never happen because that line will never be fulfilled! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then I ask the friends of the League (and I say friends quoting with the same spirit and in the same way the words of Senator Pirovano yesterday, who impressed me very much): do we want to give money to Macron? Let the Democratic Party give Macron parliamentarians and let us keep our money! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are many other things we could say about the costs of exiting the project, other specific questions about this work, but it is clear that there is also a political theme of the idea of development. We, in fact, fill our mouths with words like "green economy", such as "environmental well-being", "environment", "protection", "climate change", but then we lower our heads in front of the concept of the great works that, as large and as works, must be done regardless. This is no longer true, because the greatest work we can do for this country is to maintain our existing infrastructure, to give up unnecessary infrastructure and to spend the money to do something else. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The development that we are trying to do does not mean blocking everything, it does not mean saying no! Who unlocked the Asti-Cuneo? Who did? Who unlocked the Ragusa-Catania? Who unblocked the dispute with Cmc? Who made the business fund? We did it with our Minister Toninelli! The release of the construction site of Asti-Cuneo did so by Minister Toninelli, not others! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, may I have a very small quote: There is no party of great works. I do not believe in those protest movements which consider such initiatives as Turin-Lyon to be harmful. It's almost worse for me: they're not harmful, they're useless. It's money badly used.Matthew Renzi, 2013. We haven't changed our mind! We shall vote in favour of our motion and against those tabled by the other groups. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations very much. Senators Ferrara and Lucidi show the screen of a laptop with the words: "NOTAV". Senator Laus exhibits a sign that says: "The 5 Stars change their mind at High Speed #sitav"]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u75	Remove the signs! You can't photograph in the courtroom! Get that computer off! It's like I'm in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u78	CERNO (PD). Mr President, members of the Government (or of what will remain after this vote), senators and senators, I have asked for the dissent of my Group (which is already dissenting on this issue in itself, but silently), deciding to speak and separate myself in this way from the Democratic Party, by virtue of a democratic dissent, a word that I call on this Senate to make its own and respect more than has been done in recent days with the dissentire: it is a fine word in politics. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] I do this because I have signed the motion of another group, of the Movimento 5 Stars, and I thank the leader Patuanelli for having accepted my signature, a kind of sixth star in this Parliament that is changing before our eyes in these hours. I have done this for two reasons: it is a motion which asks Parliament (and this word has also been discussed), in this case at one of its assemblies, the Senate, to act even outside of practice as is the prerogative of Parliament, which has no limits in its action, in order to try to avoid at the last moment a colossal waste of money that has been perpetrated in the name of doing and which instead is overdoing. I say no to this TAV [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes]] and I adhere to the 5 Stars document for a reason of merit, which has been explained and on which therefore I will not extend much, and for a political reason. Let us start with the merit: in these days it has been said that my yes to the motion tabled by Movimento 5 Stars - indeed, 6 Stars, at this point - according to what I have read, would be a vote against the future. The question is, what future? The future that was planned, in the eighties, by the governments Andreotti VI and Andreotti VII, when in Italy you were imagining the supersonic plane, that would bring people around the world, when the nuclear still had to feed our homes, when the future was something that never became present; we are already thirty years late and we still have to start. Above all, that future imagined a country where the economy would always grow, by virtue of the victory of a capitalism, that would continue to bring money and goods, money and goods, money and goods, but there are not. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] I'm not here! So maybe this was the future imagined in 1986 and 1987, but it's 2019. As has been said - I will not extend - this train at 120 kilometers per hour, which is more or less the speed of a scooter on the Great ring road, which however does not cost 9 billion euros [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , will arrive in 2030. At least that's what they say now, but the French for eight years won't make their line and so we will stop in Lyon, so the future, in 2050, will be a project of 1986. Let me doubt if that is the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes]] One last technical thing, then I'll talk about political reason. You may wonder why the French do that. Are they stupid, like jokes? They do this because the orientation of Berlusconi and Bossi, that is the Government of Lega e Forza Italia, what will appear before our eyes today (I hope without the vote of my party) was in practice the following: Since we have to do this, we will pay more for it than the French, even if we have less way to go. And they said, of course, "Thank you!" We were paying for it! He's born for that, not anything else. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u79	Conclude, Senator Cerno.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u80	CERNO (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President, with the political motive. Dear left, with this vote you are asserting the same things that Prime Minister Conte said. I'm glad you're supporting the government and you're trusting the government you're contesting. The outcome will be a crisis. Will Minister Toninelli pay you? Are we all happy that Minister Toninelli pays? Is the Italian problem Minister Toninelli? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Okay. Then there'll be another government? And what government will it be, Matthew? More right! And we, with the PD vote, don't risk them getting confused and think we support him? I think it is! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What if they don't want to support him? Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. CERNO (PD). Friends - and if you are not my friends, I say what Pajetta said: if they are called friends among them, we can call them friends too - think about it while you are in time. You're making a huge mistake. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u81	Mr Senators, before starting the votes, I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the work you have done, for the cooperation of the Presidency, and above all to wish you and your families a good holiday. I also thank the entire Administration, which, despite the strong reduction in staff, allowed our work to proceed, with great efficiency, effectiveness and professionalism. I say that now, because then I know that everyone will run away, like when the bell rings at school. Thank you all. [[Applause]] Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 152, tabled by Senator Patuanelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 153 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 156 tabled by Senator Bonino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 157 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motion No 159 is foreclosed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 162 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Live Comments from the PD Group at the address of the M5S Group]] . VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Home! Go home!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u84	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, I just wanted to say that the electronic device at my station did not work, so I was unable to vote in favour of motion 153 (Text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u85	I inform you that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers: Conversion into law of the Decree-Law of 7 August 2019, n. 75, introducing urgent measures to ensure the continuity of the functions of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u88	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak, with your authoritative presence, to the Government, so that we can call for compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which provides for questions to be answered within 20 days. I have been a senator since 19 March, I have tabled seven questions and, to date, after almost six months, I still have no answer. The question to which I asked for urgent answer is No 4-01821 which, among other things, talks about aggressions within hospital facilities. A subject which, among other things, is very topical. So, Mr President, I would ask you to have this answer from the Government as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u91	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity, through your person, to draw the attention of the Ministry of the Interior and of your Minister to the drama that the structure destined for the service of the firefighters in Pescara is experiencing. Even during the exceptional hailing of July, the headquarters of the firefighters of Pescara flooded and technically exited from all conditions of agility and functionality. It's been about ten years since the fire department headquarters are technically out of the picture. We have prepared on several occasions a dossier, in agreement with the prefecture, Province of Pescara and the same command of the fire department. We have also found three alternative sites to make sure that it is given to both the prestige of fire department, and to a site able to connect the service activity of fire department with the great road. It is necessary for the Ministry to provide the financial supply and to warn this matter as a priority. Today the headquarters of the Fire Department is located in a strategic rectangle, but for cultural and university life it is as if it were in a crystal store. (at 12.26 a.m.) (Followed by ALFONSO). And when there is a need for fire department intervention, everything enters a double chaos, without considering that atmospheric adversity, in fact, produces flooding and puts out any intervention capacity. With this contribution, through the use of the time reserved for the interventions at the end of the session, I would like to call on the Minister, the Ministry and the Director-General responsible for ensuring that the dossier and the administrative procedure are implemented with promptness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u94	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, it is difficult for us to understand certain mechanisms on which the action of the Minister for Education, University and Research Marco Bussetti is based. First of all, we do not understand on the basis of which principle some teachers, as is the case in ordinary competitions, must be subjected to two written tests and one oral to be qualified for teaching and to enter the role, while others, on the other hand, can pass only a computer-based test and an oral non-selective one. Are there any A and B teachers and students? If it is right to enhance the service experience, is it equally permissible to make huge discounts on the cultural requirements that qualified teachers must have? Therefore, we cannot understand why and the Minister has not yet banned - we are in August - the competitions for secondary school in the manner provided for in the last budget law, and instead is in such a hurry to decree urgently the increase of the pockets of precariousness with a facilitated competition and enabling paths. In the meantime, however, there has been an increase in the salary of school managers of 600 euros per month. But why now that there is a decree-law on the school? Why don't we talk about the 4 euros for teachers who keep Italian schools up? Was it not also planned to increase teachers' salaries in the famous agreement with the trade unions of April 24th? How come, of this, the Minister "lion" no longer speaks in union circles, nor at government tables, in the deafening silence of the Confederal unions? The salary increases only fit into the platforms when it comes to organizing politically agreed strikes at the table, but - in reality - 100 things that are asked are aimed only at one: not at the one that unites, but at the one that divides, precisely, the teachers into A-series and B-series teachers. And where did the 5,000 places go each year assigned to the FIT and AGE teachers who have disappeared, while they should have been converted to permanent posts? What happened to the 100 quota posts and the termination of the so-called chicken classes, provided for in the government contract? How can teaching continuity be ensured under these conditions? Where are the understandings on the DSGAs that work? What happened to the return plans for teachers sent 1,000 kilometres away, as a result of the extraordinary recruitment plan of Law No 107 of 13 July 2015? In the absence of solutions from the Ministry, we, parliamentarians of the Movimento 5 Stars, have asked several times for the data necessary to draw up a proposal for the return, but they have never been given to us. And, again, from what educational poverty must peer-school students be saved, to whom is the call for EUR 50 million PON projects also extended? Maybe he was referring to the salaries of peer - school teachers, in some cases paid even 50 cents an hour? There are many, far too many, the criticalities in the management of this Ministry and many, too many, the dysfunctions that have not been answered for a long time. We are a force of government and we are not satisfied with the commitments made by the Minister but not agreed with the 5-star Movement, the largest parliamentary group supporting this majority. We intend to give back to the state school the role of social elevator that the Constitution assigns to it, in respect of students, families and above all, of all teachers who must be treated impartially. We do not accept derogations from this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u97	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cultivation of nuts has long been an important investment sector for Italian agriculture. Many agricultural entrepreneurs, especially in the Southern regions, in recent years have planted hundreds of hectares of almond trees, carobs and pistachios, giving impetus to the sector and creating new job opportunities, especially for the youngest. This is due to the increased use of nuts in food, doubled over the last decade, also due to its recognized nutritional value. The quality of the nuts produced in our country is in fact higher than that of the foreign productions, in which are often present pathogenic agents, such as aflatoxins (for example, in the almond of California, in the hazelnut of Turkey or in Iranian pistachio, often produced with methods that are not respectful of the environment, such as an excessive use of plant protection drugs and an abnormal consumption of resources). On the Italian front, despite encouraging data, companies in the sector complain of a lack of integration of the supply chain among those who produce, transform and market nuts in shell. The sector, in fact, did not follow the path of growth developed by other countries, ending up being not up to date and not competitive at international level. The quality and quantity that our country was able to offer have been exceeded by the productions of other countries, which have focused on innovation and market strategies able to make known and appreciate their products in the world. It is therefore necessary to protect and enhance our production, promoting it on national and international markets. This can only be done through a strategic intervention by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, which supports the potential expressed by the Italian nut sector. Precisely for this - albeit in this surreal climate - I appeal to Minister Centinario to put in place every useful action to make executive the indications contained in the Plan of the world sector, nuts, pistachios and carobs wanted by the same Minister of agricultural policies and approved also by the Conference State-Regions in 2012, but unfortunately remained unimplemented. Only through the implementation of the measures contained in this plan, accompanied by an effective territorial promotion campaign, will we be able to relaunch a strategic sector of Italian agriculture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u100	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is news of these days that is passing on in the current holiday climate, namely the annulment of special autonomy to the autonomous Indian region of Kashmir with a unilateral amendment of the Constitution, wanted by the Indian ultra-nationalist government led by Narendra Modi. Without entering too much into the merit of this political choice, linked to international issues and above all to relations with Pakistan, what I would like to stress is the violence of this political act, made by a government supported by a racist ideology, which could lead to a totalitarian regime. For our part, as representatives of small communities carrying cultures and centuries-old traditions typical of border regions and convinced federalists, we can only express our deepest indignation and severe censorship about what is happening to the population of this territory. The red thread linking Kashmir, Kurdistan, Catalunya, Scotland and our special statute realities, guaranteed in a far-sighted way by our Constitution, represents the desire to live according to their culture and traditions, with the possibility of self-determination in a context of peace and democracy. We therefore hope that our Government will take a strong stance on this serious matter, to the people of Kashmir, who live in a state of siege and curfew, and say: Hang in there, we're on your side. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u103	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ofanto is one of the most important rivers in southern Italy, which is 171 kilometres long. Its catchment area is about 2,800 square kilometers. It crosses three regions: Campania (where it was born), Basilicata and Puglia (where it flows, near Barletta). From an environmental point of view, the river represents an important treasure trove of biodiversity, which also sees the presence of the otter, so much so that in its basin there are new protected and perimeter areas within the Natura 2000 network, for a total of 37,000 hectares. The Puglia Region in 2007 established the Rijeka Ofanto Regional Natural Park, which however finds considerable management problems. In its basin there are also industrial sites and waste water discharges. We learn from the press that, following sampling and analysis of the waters of the river Ofanto carried out by the department ARPAC of Avellino, in the territory of Conza of Campania, mercury concentrations higher than the maximum permitted were detected. Following the worrying data that emerged and passed on to the municipalities concerned on July 24, the municipalities of the upper valley of Ofanto (Calitri, Morra De Sanctis, Teora, Conza from Campania and Cairano) precautionaryly ordered the absolute prohibition of use for any purpose, including irrigation and zootechnical uses, of the river waters and those of the wells fed by the river itself. The news is particularly alarming, as mercury is a heavy metal that is highly toxic and dangerous to the health of people, wildlife and the territory and, creeping into the food chain, can pollute the fertile gardens of the valley and the catch. We are very concerned about the state of health of the river and we ask to strengthen environmental monitoring, extending it towards the mouth and even to the sea, and to deepen the cognitive picture through a greater capillary in analytical determinations both in the water streams that feed the river and on the land and river sediments of the basin. We ask for the utmost attention for this important body of water, also because so far little or nothing has been done to protect a territory that contains, in addition to the landscape and environmental beauties, also a historical, artistic and cultural heritage of enormous interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-144.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 10 September, at 12.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.38 p.m.
