ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, on April 6, 2009, at 3.32 a.m., a terrible earthquake shocked the city of L'Aquila, Abruzzo and the whole of Central Italy. Under the rubble were children, girls and boys, whole families, elderly, rescuers. The final balance was dramatic: over 300 people lost their lives, with more than 1,500 injured and tens of thousands displaced. Among the victims, allow me to remind Giovanna Berardini, a young mother, that the next day she would have to give birth to her second daughter, Giorgia. The earthquake, on the other hand, took away the whole family, including his two-year-old son Francesco. And then houses, schools, churches, public buildings; the historic center and the most affected areas were destroyed in a few seconds, erasing forever stories, memories, affections, faces. The rescue machine gave the country that dignity and pride that tragedy had put to the test. From all over Italy there was mobilization to help, support, comfort those compatriots who had lost everything; a solidarity contest, in which foreign States, foundations and international organizations participated. Ten years later we have a moral duty to remember and we have an obligation to inspire public policies every day to the principles of security of the territory and the environment. In remembrance of the victims, I invite you to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u4	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00634 on the property to be allocated to the new headquarters of the Pesaro police station. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u5	Mr President, Senators, the offices of the Pesaro and Urbino police station are located in different buildings, held under non-contractual occupation, with headquarters in via Giordano Bruno and a second headquarters, located in via Flacco, which is the seat of the immigration and personal offices. With reference to this second property, owned by a company entirely owned by the Province of Pesaro and Urbino, an eviction procedure was also activated for finished lease with scheduled release, after two extensions, at the end of 2019. In order to identify alternative solutions suitable to arrange the offices currently located in the building of via Giordano Bruno, the prefecture, in close connection with the police station and the State Property Agency, has started, since 2015, the procedures to make possible the recovery, with charges borne by the State Property Agency, of a property, adjacent to the headquarters of the prefecture, once seat of the Financial Intent and the Provincial Command of the Finance Guard, for years unused. In the new building will be allocated part of the offices currently located in the main office of Via Giordano Bruno and will be obtained an internal area for the parking of the service cars. The offices of Via Flacco, instead, will be transferred to the current main building of the police station, which is located in the same square in front position and a few tens of meters from the new building. Such hypothesis of logistic reorganization has materialized in a protocol of understanding, undersigned on 17 june 2016, between the Ministry of the inside, the Agency of the State property and the Municipality of Pesaro. In particular, the agency has committed itself to plan and implement the intervention of adaptation and renovation construction, for a total expenditure of 6.2 million euros, and has elaborated a definitive plan of the participations, that it includes also works of reduction of the seismic risk. For the purpose of the drafting of the executive design, a special program has been developed, approved by the Superintendence to artistic and cultural goods, for the positioning of some containers, instrumental to the temporary placement of the shops on the square in front of the building in the period necessary for the execution of the works. Precisely with reference to the presence of the stores placed on the ground floor of the building it must be pointed out that the situation was known at the time of the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding in 2016 to all the local, interregional and central offices concerned, that have positively assessed the intervention from the point of view of functionality, considered in line with the technical and administrative rules dictated for the interventions of the type previously envisaged. It should also be noted that these shops are not located close to the main entrances, neither the prefecture nor the building identified for the transfer of the offices of the police station. The implementation of the initiative in question is, moreover, constantly monitored by a specific working group composed, as indicated by the aforementioned Memorandum of Understanding, by representatives of the subscribed parties, as well as by a local contact person of the Department of Public Security territorially competent, which will ensure the necessary technical support to the State Agency so that the related plan of adaptation is in line with the needs of the Police offices. The initiative in question, whose presumed term of completion of the works is scheduled for the end of 2021 or the beginning of 2022, is economically advantageous for the administration, as, being the property, no fees will have to be paid and the works of adaptation to the needs of the Police will be implemented and financed by the State Property Agency. Last but not least, no proposals have been received so far regarding the construction of a new structure on the building area owned by the Municipality, adjacent to the Miralfiore park, a solution that would not be economically more advantageous, having to pay a rental fee for the use of the property that the Municipality of Pesaro would realize. The prefecture of Pesaro and Urbino also stated that at one of the last meetings of the City Council of Pesaro a agenda presented by a minority adviser with whom the municipal administration undertook to find other solutions for the allocation of the police station was rejected by a majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u8	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Molteni for the kindness he used me in coming to this House today to answer a question that stems from the necessary relationship between Members of Parliament and the territory that has expressed them. I took care of the doubts expressed by a police union, doubts that led to a debate in the citizens' newspapers, following which several citizens wrote to me adhering to these doubts and urging me to take a position. I take note of the chronological reconstruction of the facts carried out by the Undersecretary Molteni, which seems to me not to add merit assessments to the choice made by the mayor of Pesaro Matteo Ricci. This choice is, in my opinion, questionable for many reasons: first of all for security issues. This was mentioned by the Undersecretary: the shops on the street floor expose the risk and encourage the intention of any malicious people who wanted to make an attack on the police station. The new police station would then be located in the heart of the historic city center, a restricted traffic area, close to Piazza del Popolo, frequented by the Pesaro people, who rightly consider it their right to walk in serenity. And this I think would be difficult to reconcile with the wayfarers of the police who do their job, but they would also put at risk the safety of the citizens who walk there. The structure identified, moreover, precisely because of its morphology, does not seem adequate to the function that it would cover. It would not automatically free the old police station and therefore there would be a cohabitation of offices in different buildings, which I imagine could not favor the functionality of the work of those who were to operate within the new police station. There are no parking spaces, and this penalizes the employees of the police station, as well as the citizens called to attend it. It would have been better, in my opinion, to use the land owned by the Municipality to which you referred - 20,000 square meters building - to build a new police station with all the chrisms and, after an agreement with the state property, to return to the city the building of the former Intention of finance because, as we know, Pesaro is a city rich in cultural and associative ferment but poor in places where such ferment can take place, take place, actually open to citizenship. So, from my point of view, it would have been better, for the location of that building (the former Intention of Finance) and for its structure, to open it and return it actually to citizenship rather than transform it into a police station, or rather to a half police station, since a part of the old police station would remain in operation. However, ubi major, I take note of the position of the Government and the municipal administration of Pesaro and we hope that it will prove to be the right choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u9	Following is the question 3-00276 on the establishment of the State Archives of the Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u10	Mr. President, the senator. Fourthly, it asks for news regarding the establishment of a State Archives in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani. I would like to point out that, as the Senator correctly pointed out, the decree of the President of the Republic No. 1409 of 1963, which laid down rules relating to the organization of the staff of the State archives, provided for a State Archives in each province, with its headquarters in the capital. The competent Directorate-General of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, already in March 2008, had expressed its willingness to activate one in the province in question, provided that the local authorities had taken care of the problems related to the structural and functional adjustment of the premises, taking into account the budgetary difficulties highlighted also by the other offices of the Ministry present in the territory. The same Archive Directorate, at the impulse of the Secretary General who had made himself interpreter of the request made in this sense by the government commissioner for the Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, provided to quantify the burdens necessary for the activation and the subsequent operation of the State Archives of Trani, coming to the conclusion that it would not be possible to cope with the ordinary resources. It is agreed with the Senator that the presence of archive personnel already employed in the detached sections does not, for these items of expenditure, entail additional burdens and, however, the functionality of a series of archives requires a more complex organization even structural. In the wide comparison that has concerned the evaluation of the cultural reasons of the initiative, but also its financial, organizational and logistic implications, it has been considered to maintain for now the existing structure, with the offices of Barletta and Trani as sections of the State Archives of Bari. In 2016 were allocated, for the structural and functional adjustment of the former barracks Stennio of Barletta 974,500 euros total of which 706,500 euros attributable to the ordinary programming of public works and 268,000 euros allocated by law 23 December 2014, n. 190. However, this sum is not sufficient to complete the necessary work. I would like to remind you that in 2008 the technical office of the relevant Directorate-General for Archives estimated the amount necessary for structural adjustment to be EUR 2.5-3 million. It has therefore been planned to implement as a matter of priority the actions necessary to start the procedure of putting into operation of the activity in compliance with the regulations in force (adjustability, certificate fire prevention etc.). Moreover, the management reports a controversy over the ownership of the complex, arising between the state property and the municipality of Barletta. For completeness, the same Directorate recalls that there is a close comparison between the cities of Barletta and Trani about the location of the headquarters of the setting up of the State Archives. However, I would like to reassure the honourable senator that the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which, among other things, carries out the state functions related to the protection of the Italian archival heritage and promotes its conservation, knowledge and study, is well aware of the importance of the Archives, which are a valuable and delicate asset where professionals who preserve the past and organize the present, allowing everyone to take advantage of invaluable documents that they themselves safeguard for the future, and persevere in the search for every possible solution to achieve what is required; a solution that contempers and satisfies the cultural and financial plan in the framework of a reorganization plan of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u13	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, I welcome this detailed and comprehensive response from the Government. Finally, fifteen years after the birth of the Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, the establishment of the provincial seat of the State Archives is taken seriously, as provided by the law of the State. Collecting, preserving and monitoring the state-owned archive and documentary heritage and making it accessible to citizens: this is the important task of the State Archives. Precious results are the assistance to researchers in the study room and the searches by correspondence, the acquisition of the historical documentation of the state offices, the promotional and didactic activity, the initiatives of scientific research and valorization of the documents, also in collaboration with other cultural institutions. All this is certainly more efficient if there is a provincial seat in the territory. For far too long, previous governments have ignored this legitimate request that - it is clear - would not entail additional burdens. They are in fact already operational on the territory, as sections of the State Archives of Bari, the headquarters of Barletta and Trani, equipped in the complex of about 100,000 documents of archival interest, administrative, financial, judicial and military acts, in some cases dating back to the sixteenth century. On the level of human resources then these two sections already have a qualified and complete endowment between archivist and service officials and can take advantage of two splendid buildings, also remembered by the Undersecretary: the former barracks Stennio di Barletta, once a convent of the Celestines, whose first news concerning the church with the adjoining monastery and hospital dates back to 1185, and the historic Palazzo Valenzano di Trani, dating back to 1762, already home of the district notary archive. I pointed out in the question that the province of Fermo, also born in 2004, obtained the transformation from a section of State Archives into a State Archives of Fermo as early as 2007. I think it's time to proceed in the sixth province of Apulia. The Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities can therefore indicate as headquarters Barletta or Trani. I take advantage of this opportunity to urge all the bodies involved to speed up the procedures to complete the work of adaptation and safety of the structures that host or will soon host the archival documents. The Government, for its part, must commit itself to act promptly as soon as the territory is ready with a seat to welcome the State Archives. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u14	I would like to greet the representatives of the Consulta degli Studenti del Friuli-Venezia Giulia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-00217 on the situation of the offices of the Civil Motorization of Florence and Prato. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u16	Mr President, the civil motorization office (UMC) in Prato, in December 2012, was also closed as a result of the measures contained in Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, which resulted in the merger of the UMC in Florence. The retirements, the turnover block and the rotation of staff have led to critical issues in the provision of the service. With regard to the period of validity of the pink sheet, the Ministerial Circular of 2 March 2016 provided provisions on the possibility of extension. Evidence, moreover, that a special inspection commission of the MIT, appointed in 2018 to verify the actual critical situations complained by the self-schools, has found that the so-called average life of the pink sheet of Florence is about one hundred days, that is in line with the national average. In this regard, I inform you that in February 2018 an engineer was hired in the office of Florence, while for future recruitment of permanent staff at the MIT, a considerable part of the same will be carried out through special competition to 148 posts of official engineer architect - of which five for the DMV in Florence and the related sections - whose written tests have already been carried out; in this regard, it has already been asked to the Ministry of Economy and Finance the possibility to foresee, with the first useful regulatory instrument, an increase of the places already placed in competition. I would also add that, always due to the shortage of DMV personnel, a 16 million euro fund has been put in place, obviously spread over several years, for an additional fifty recruitments to meet this obvious deficiency that we inherited. Precisely in order to meet the demands of the users is being taken action through organizational improvements. The operational activity is also satisfied thanks to a greater presence, under overtime, by the staff of the office. However, it is being studied, among the measures to be included in the proposed legislation amending the road code, that of the extension of the pink sheet, when the candidate is not given to support the two tests of examination of driving in constancy of validity of the certification, measure that, therefore, will allow to reduce the costs of renewal of the pink sheet. In the light of the above, I assure you that the competent Directorate-General for Territorial Affairs will carry out and will continue to carry out its monitoring activity on the critical complaints and will try to take all necessary measures. Finally, I inform you that in every peripheral location there are in the phase of activation courses of qualification for the carrying out of the activity of examiner, so as to contribute to the increase of the staff authorized to carry out the exams in order to diminish the inconveniences to the users.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u19	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for the information and clarification you have given us. Even in view of the fact that the question dates back many months ago, I was able to carry out new checks with the operators and with the citizens who raised the issue and denounce the existence of a serious problem. It has emerged from these tests that the picture we currently have with regard to the DMV in Florence and Prato is much less rosy than what is described to us and that the prospects are not as favourable as those that you have proposed to us. We are well aware that there has been a turning point in this affair which took place in April 2018, when an earlier agreement was called into question; this has led to a serious fall in service. We know that for a long time there has been a great sacrifice of the citizens and professional operators, who have tried to compensate with their goodwill for the serious effects of the shortage of staff. We also know that the structural remedies needed to really solve this problem are much larger than the remedies you have mentioned. Anyway, I appreciate the attempt to put a solution in place. I record your optimism about the effect of the ongoing initiatives. I would just remind you that the planned assumptions are, in my opinion, really insufficient to change the situation in the civil DMV in Florence and Prato. The existence of such serious inconveniences as those which are mentioned in my question is by no means mitigated by the fact that the duration of the pink sheet in this constituency is the same as in the other districts, on average, because in these cases a miscommon form of joy is not a valid principle. Malcommon is malcommon and there is nothing else to say. I would also like to say that it would be good if the Government, as has already been the case with police officers, would give correct information on the effect, as a net balance, of the competitions that are scheduled. In fact, if, as I am told by many alarmed voices, there will be - within these structures - a massive recourse to the new provisions on the pension advance, we run the risk that the placing in the role of additional unit that you have remembered in the end leads to a net balance of staff in decline for the effect of another measure that has operated the same Government of which you are exponent and to which you belong. Here too, the right hand must know what the left hand is doing, otherwise it is not possible to have a proper service for the citizens. Thank you and we will certainly come back to this because I have the impression that the solution is far beyond that to come. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u20	Following are questions 3-00690 and 3-00707, on the conviction of Iranian lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u21	Mr President, the Italian Government follows closely the case of Iranian lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh and her husband Reza Khandan, both directly and in coordination with European partners. At bilateral level, Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi took a formal step with his Iranian counterpart, which was also confirmed by the high interest of Italian public opinion and professional forensic associations in the case, and with the High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union Mogherini, so that the case of the lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh is given the utmost attention. Even before the recent condemnation, we took an active part in the main opportunities for discussion of the human rights situation in Iran in the relevant multilateral forums. Finally, in the context of the work of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, to which Italy is a party, during the interactive dialogue with the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Iran (11 March 2019), the European Union drew attention, inter alia, to its strong commitment to the protection and promotion of freedom of opinion, expression, association and meeting. At the same time, he expressed strong concern about the continued arrests and detentions of persons exercising these rights, including journalists, activists, lawyers and human rights defenders, as well as lawyers defending these people, urging the Iranian Government to review its policies, actions and laws to ensure the protection of these rights. The European Union has also urged the Iranian Government to take further steps to ensure the full enjoyment of the human rights of women and girls. Following the announcement of the recent condemnation of Nasrin Sotoudeh, our embassy in Tehran was asked to coordinate with the other EU representations accredited in the country also to clarify the terms of the penalty imposed, on which there is divergence between what the Iranian authorities officially declare (seven years) and what the family declared (38 years and 148 lashes). This is not a simple finding, in the light of certain rigidities that exist in the Iranian context. We will continue to support the initiatives planned by the European Union, which - I remember - immediately activated with a statement (on 12 March) expressing concern at the conviction of the lawyer. At the same time, the Iranian authorities draw the attention to the violations of the right to a fair trial suffered by the lawyer and the fact that the right to protest and peacefully express their ideas is enshrined in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, of which Iran is also a party, and the immediate revision of the sentence relating to the lawyer and that of the husband, in addition to the respect of their right to appeal against the judgments is strongly called for. We will monitor the future developments of the case, evoke it with concern in the forthcoming bilateral contacts with Tehran and ensure that it is deepened by the relevant multilateral bodies. The multilateral platform appears to be the most appropriate framework in which, in coordination with the partners of the European Union, pressure actions can be put on the Iranian authorities, both in relation to the specific case and - more generally - to stimulate constructive responses to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including those of women, by the Iranian Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u24	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the question that I have put must be looked at from a broader perspective, on which I would like the Senate's Human Rights Commission to work as well. It is no coincidence that in the world, whenever women become interpreters and bearers of demands not only for the claim of human rights, but also for personal freedom, when they become visible and important, they are struck with extreme harshness. One of the main battles that women in countries like Iran conduct is the denial of the obligation to wear a veil. We have also seen women in Saudi Arabia who have challenged the kingdom and the king by driving their car; there is a strong demand for schooling, through which many women try to gain rights for themselves and their daughters. What I wonder, using the instrument of the question, is not only what Italy is doing to free Nasrin, but what it is doing so that it does not suffer the violation of its physical integrity with the penalty of the lashes (now bad, anachronistic, out of history and human rights) and, above all, what our country is doing to get a fair trial for this woman. We know that the maximum sentence has been applied to you on seven crimes, which are all questionable because it should be understood whether the conduct and, that is, the subject matter of the crime was committed by Nasrin. Above all, an article in the penal code has been used which, by providing for the cumulation of penalties, requires the application of an aggravating rule that further increases the penalty. It is ridiculous to say that we cannot really ascertain the content of the sentence: the Government says that it was sentenced to seven years, but we know that it was sentenced to thirty-three years. The certainty of the penalty should be one of the foundations of a rule of law. We know that, in fact, we are dealing with a country where the rule of law is constantly being questioned. My question was also aimed at understanding whether all the initiatives of international cooperation that are supported in any case with respect to that country must, can, will be - I ask myself and I ask the Government - subjected to ethical screening; I would also like to know whether an alternative response to all international cooperation initiatives can be considered if human rights, democracy and pluralism within political forces are not respected. Perhaps some countries, which give and do so much in this field, can condition their presence and their help and support by asking the Government in return for these points to be respected. With regard to your reply, Mr Secretary, for which I thank you, I see shortcomings and, above all, a very strong lack of political initiative. We have visible ministers who continually, even with phrases and slogans, are launching European and international challenges, but I do not see the same vehemence, the same presence and the same use of a strong and clear language when it comes to defending a woman, the human rights of a woman and, above all, an injustice that is now before the eyes of the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u27	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I would like to thank you for your reply and just make one point: EUR 120 million has given it to Iran by the Renzi Government. [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] Speaking of rights and entering into the substance of the matter, important, there is this woman, lawyer, Nasrin, who represents not only a specific case, but a symbol, a way of life and a culture. You're a coincidence, but there's a lot of them. The other day the "Corriere della Sera" reported the photograph of a woman with the burqa on her knees and whipped. Already putting a woman on her knees and whip her is an image that, for our culture, makes us really disgust and you can no longer tolerate. It is said that there is the judge's sentence (by the way, the judge who adopted this sentence was promoted to the UN to deal with women's issues!). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Mallegni]] Our culture and theirs are completely different. I am proud of ours and I remember that in the Islamic Declaration of Human Rights - unlike our Universal Declaration of Human Rights - it is written that man, to be understood as a male, has the right to supremacy over woman. It is a question of culture and civilization and the battle that must be waged not only represents a woman, but an entire civilization and two completely different worlds. Sometimes I hear about integration, but how can their culture be integrated with ours, which is profoundly different? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups, and the Senators De Falco and Mallegni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u28	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u31	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for the opportunity I have been given to give the documents a contribution and a thought in order to participate in this right and necessary occasion of memory of the earthquake that struck Abruzzo. It is right that there should also be a contribution from those who have known and experienced him. In those days I had no responsibility, but - of course - I was aware of the gravity that happened. A community is made up of laws, income and ambitions, but also of collective memory. Collective memory allows resistance and resilience when difficulties arise, situations of pain and even uncertainties in the conduct, because the greater the difficulty to be managed. L'Aquila has experienced an earthquake of proportions even scientifically never felt in that part of the territory of the center of Italy, if you do not go back to 1703. As you said, Mr President, human lives have been affected by an earthquake against L'Aquila and not by the city of L'Aquila. The earthquake will leave the memory of the pain for decades, exactly as happened in 1703, when there was an identical shock that destroyed the soil and the subsoil, but also the sky, at the level of ambitions. What's the point of remembering at a time like this? It serves to take measures about things done, but - above all - to establish a collective level of maturity, even within the ordering. We must produce a framework rule on disasters, which does not determine every time the shooting of the rope in order to have financial resources, human, flexibility and zero procedures in order to be able to share. I will conclude with a thought, Mr President. At L'Aquila we are reviewing the walls; the walls are coming back, even more beautiful than those that were in the past. The problem is that those walls do not recount life, nor ambition, and we need to make sure that economic, cultural, solidarity and trust also return. As Pannella would have said, which was and remains a great Abruzzo, there is a need for pertinacy - the pertinent tenacity, the relevance in tenacity - of all those who have a duty. Rebuild rather than act early and prevent costs six times more. As the life-senator and master Renzo Piano also taught us, we need to remember and mend, but in advance, before disasters happen. In this House, a great senator, Gianfranco Miglio, has explained to us that the state is being recognized if it can react to disasters. For these reasons remembering comes in handy, because it is a premise for our pertinance. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u34	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 April there will be a decade of tragic events, so tragic and so far away in time and yet still so topical. In the night between 5 and 6 April ten years ago, at 3.32, a roar wrapped the city of L'Aquila, a roar that still echoes in some of those roads that still appear as the earthquake left them and reduced: a heap of rubble. It took a few seconds, a few endless seconds to upset the lives of so many families and bring down their dreams, their certainties and their lives. 80,000 displaced persons, 1,600 injured and 309 victims: this is the report of the tragic event. Ten years have passed and at L'Aquila there are still 4,200 families waiting to return to their homes; in fact, the reconstruction is still distant from its final sentence, missing at the appeal still 25 percent of homes in the center, 45 on the outskirts and as much as 78 percent in the fractions. Ten years of waiting is too long and it is our task today to try to alleviate the pain of all the citizens of the Aquila and of all those who live the same situation. We are required to bring them back to their neighborhoods, with their own habits and communities, to give them a normal life. The same images of that tragic 6 April were repeated in May 2012 in Emilia-Romagna and, again, in 2016 in Amatrice. For a nation that respects phrases of the type: "Can be avoided" or "Can be avoided": "It was necessary to intervene first" they have the sound of a defeat, of an inability of the State to make the state. Every victim of the earthquake is a part of a state that dies. It is true, Italy is a nation that has always shook and will continue to do so and, unfortunately, earthquakes are not predictable, but it is equally true that today we have enough knowledge to understand whether a building and an infrastructure can resist or not to a certain type of shock and we have all the tools to ensure the safety of people, even during seismic events. The Government of change to the word "prevention" must forever replace the word "emergency." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u35	I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.48 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u36	The next item is the immediate questioning under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Pianasso has the right to explain the question 3-00753 on the prospects of the Italian plants of the Mahle group, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mahle is a manufacturer of automotive components based in Stuttgart, Germany. Mahle Componenti Motori Italia SpA has been present in Italy since 1987, when it acquired control of the previous company Mondial Piston SpA, which has been active since 1946. In Italy there are two production plants, one in La Loggia (Turin) and one in Saluzzo (Cuneo), for a total of about 500 employees. The Saluzzo plant includes the production process of aluminium alloy casting, as well as mechanical pre-processing of piston forming, in which 200 workers and 40 other workers are employed between employees, managers and managers. In the Saluzzo plant, in 2018, the recourse to the ordinary integration fund involved a number of between 50 and 200 workers out of the 200 total; as reported by the trade union associations involved, the industrial plan presented by the German company does not foresee adequate investments in Italy, leading to a decrease in the production sites present on the Italian territory. In addition, diesel engine components are produced at the Saluzzo plant and this sector is shrinking, causing concern for the future of the plant in the light of the lack of investment in new productions. In general, the European automotive market has strong contractions which are likely to cause serious consequences in the Italian and European industrial sectors. In a meeting between the union representatives of the Mahle and the summits of the same, held on December 7, 2018 near the council member to the job of the Piedmont Region, the managers Mahle have illustrated the economic situation in the various European plants of the company, have reiterated the will to maintain the presence in Italy, but they have not provided indications on the possible productive diversification and the future developments. According to the questioner, there would be the risk of a complete reorganization of the company that would result in a drastic reduction in production in the Italian factories of La Loggia and Saluzzo, with consequent employment crisis. It is asked whether the Minister is aware of what was said in the preamble and whether he intends to convene a table with the Ministry, so that we can have clarity on the future industrial plans of the company in question, in order to protect the current employment levels. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u38	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. With regard to the problems highlighted with regard to the company Mahle, I remember that the company, with headquarters in Germany in Stuttgart and Italy in La Loggia (Turin) and Saluzzo (Cuneo), is a world leader in the production of engine components and its clientele is made up of international automotive groups. In the past, the company had already applied for the treatment of extraordinary earnings fund (CIGS) to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies for the establishment of La Loggia (Turin) and for a headquarters in Trento, with the simultaneous conclusion of a solidarity contract, which established for twelve months the maximum reduction of weekly working time, as provided for by the national collective agreement of work of the field of the metalworking industry, for 182 workers (on a total staff of 799). To date, there is no request for CIGS treatment for the headquarters of Saluzzo (Cuneo), provided that the company involved operates specifically in Piedmont - that the procedure could also be managed at regional level. However, in the light of the above, I declare the total willingness of the Ministry of Economic Development to start a table of confrontation with the interested parties, obviously with request from the involved subjects. From the perspective of the participations in support of the enterprises in Piemonte, I take the occasion to remember that the Ministry of the economic development, the Region Piemonte and Invitalia SpA have undersigned, last July, a program agreement in order to support programs of investment in the areas of industrial crisis not complex of the Piemonte and is in course the conclusion of the iter for the recognition of the complex industrial crisis area for the territory of Turin, in which is localized the majority of the productive plants, for importance and dimension, of the Region, between which also FCA. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u40	Senator Pianasso has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u41	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. As a Group we believe that this case is important for several issues, the first of which concerns the attention that as a majority we must maintain towards all foreign companies that control important Italian productive assets. It is essential that those who decide to invest in our country guarantee the proper economic commitment and the protection of employment. This case also underlines the delicate industrial situation in the Piedmont Region, where there are several open business crisis files. It is no coincidence that Piedmont, according to the latest data presented by MISE, is the fourth Italian Region for applications for citizenship income; it is, therefore, a particular and delicate situation that deserves due attention from the Government. I would also like to make a personal comment on citizenship income. Minister, if the income of citizenship works, let us go on along this path; we are at the beginning and we still have to see if it is a measure that bears fruit, as I hope and think. Otherwise, however, we must not behave like Forza Italia or the PD, who thought they were doing everything right: sometimes getting back on their steps is important. If the income of citizenship is the commitment to finding a job, well; if it is only a subsidy, we try to achieve active labour policies, also because people do not ask us for a subsidy, but dignity and work gives dignity. From the benches of this assembly I have heard several times criticize her because she sold the drinks at the Stadio San Paolo or because she was a steward; I say to her: Of Maio, be proud of what he has done, because whatever work gives dignity, even clean the bathrooms. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u42	Senator Romagnoli has the right to explain the question 3-00752 on the protection of Italian historical companies and their brands, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Italy, because of its industrial tradition, has many historic companies that represent the excellence of Made in Italy in the world and that these companies, thanks to the extraordinary quality of their production, are recognized all over the world and the so-called associated brand, in many cases, has become a world industrial heritage. Over the last few years important historical brands have been the subject of acquisitions by multinational companies with headquarters and production abroad, and these operations, in many cases, have caused the transfer of production abroad, resulting in the closure of historical plants, the dismissal, over the years, of tens of thousands of workers and the loss of that industrial know-how that was the result of constant entrepreneurial work and technological research. In addition, consider that, in addition to the impoverishment of the industrial fabric, these closures have caused and cause a impoverishment of the social and cultural fabric in the areas on which these plants insist and that the operations of acquisition of important Italian historical brands continue also in these years, as in the case of the Pernigotti confectionery company of Novi Ligure (Alessandria), to deal with which, moreover, has been activated, at the Ministry of Economic Development, a special monitoring table for the safeguard of occupational levels. In the light of these industrial phenomena, action is increasingly needed to protect employment, the integrity of historic brands, the quality of production and the safeguarding of the social, economic and cultural fabric of the areas on which the company insists. It is therefore asked to know what measures the Minister intends to take to safeguard the so-called Italian historical brands, providing specific regulatory instruments, and what initiatives the Minister intends to take to protect the employment levels of workers employed in the historic Italian companies, which are the subject of industrial operations involving the transfer of production abroad or in areas other than the areas of origin of the company. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u44	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u45	Mr President, the so-called wild relocations, which have destroyed part of the entrepreneurial fabric of our country in recent years, have been fought by this Government with measures within the decree dignity, to safeguard the productive levels and the very survival of Italian companies and to protect workers. The Dignity Decree, which has the merit of having given a positive boost to permanent employment contracts, has put a brake on the relocations of companies that have obtained State aid to carry out investments. We have in fact introduced the obligation not to transfer for five years to countries outside the European Union the economic activity which has benefited from public support, subject to the forfeiture of the benefit and the imposition of a specific administrative penalty. The same applies to companies that go outside the Italian territory, but in that case there is only the forfeiture of the benefit, with interest, and not the imposition of a specific sanction. With a measure contained in the growth decree, under discussion in the Council of Ministers in a few hours, will introduce into the legal order the definition of historical brand of national interest and will be made a special logo to enhance the companies owners of this brand, both to allow the certification of the historical company of Made in Italy, and to protect its occupational levels and its production. The Ministry of Economic Development will have the possibility of automatically registering a trade mark in the special register, if there has been information that the company intends to close the production site of origin or in any case the main one, if it appears that the proprietor has not entered this trade mark on the appropriate list. In order to safeguard employment levels and to guarantee the continuation of production activity on the national territory, the establishment of the Fund for the Protection of Historical Marks of National Interest (to access which will have to follow a special procedure) has also been envisaged at the Ministry of Economic Development. In order to access the Fund, after registration of the trademark within the register, the company will have to notify without delay the Ministry of Economic Development of the information relating to a project for the closure or relocation of the establishment, and will have to identify potential buyers, informing periodically the Ministry of the economic development of the proposed purchase received and providing a report for each of them. In addition, a special logo of the historical trademarks of national interest may be established, which the companies registered in the register may use for commercial and promotional purposes. This is only one of the initiatives of this Government to curb the relocations of Italian companies and to protect employment levels. In this direction, my commitment as Minister of economic development and labour and social policies will always be maximum, because when a company relocates, it takes out not only its plants and its market, but also its know-how, that is that wealth of experience and knowledge accumulated over the years with the help of the irreplaceable Italian workers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This rule is dedicated to the workers of Pernigotti, who, although they will not be able to enjoy the advantages of this rule because it cannot be retroactive, have inspired it and will never again allow other cases of Pernigotti. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u46	Senator Matrisciano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u47	Minister, we are pleased with this response and we are happy to learn that the safeguarding of Made in Italy, one of the strengths of our country and its image in the world, is to the attention of this Government. You yourself, Minister, on 5 January, on your visit to the Pernigotti plant, announced that the Ministry of Economic Development was working on this subject. We say thanks to this Government that it has been working for less than a year and is committing itself to serious measures, for which we do not need legislative proposals from the quick iters only to plant flags, but we need quality measures that solve the problems at the root, both of workers and of companies. We hope, with this procedure and with the measures that will be taken in the future, that such cases as Pernigotti and its workers will no longer occur. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u48	Senator Bellanova has the right to explain question 3-00754 on the solution of the current employment crisis and on support for industrial conversion, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u49	Minister, Istat, OECD, Confindustria (through its study office) and many others certify that in Italy growth is negative. Basically, we are in recession: industrial turnover is at -7.3 percent, orders at -5.3 percent; increases the integration fund and reduces the possibility for people to have a full income. At the end of May, when you moved to the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour (in essence when you went to the Government), there were 23,327,000 in Italy; in February 2019, there were 23,211,000 employed in Italy, i.e. 116,000 less workers and workers. Minister, the situation is very serious. Clearly, your recipe doesn't work. But there is an even more serious situation that is that of complex crisis areas. There are 18 in Italy, distributed throughout the territory, from Portovesme to Taranto, Savona, Trieste, Gela, and so on, territories that have suffered devastating crises over the last decade: 60,000 workers located in these 18 areas of crisis, since January I am without salary because you, your colleague of the economy, your Government did not have the time to make a decree. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And don't tell us you signed two days ago. That was a due act, but the decree is not yet applicable because it does not bring the signature of the Economy and registration to the Court of Auditors. So, Minister, you are humiliating people on the Integration Fund; on the crisis areas you have a dowry of EUR 721 million in most of the last parliamentary term: why don't you invest those resources to give productive continuity and create jobs? There are strong complaints from the territories about the serious delays in the implementation of conversion projects. You think that the Senate Industry Commission started an investigation into the 18 crisis areas: last week we completed the Savona area and next week we will discuss Taranto area. The question, Minister, is simple: at what point is the implementation of projects for the conversion and redevelopment of productive areas of complex crisis? Why are you still unable to say how these projects are being carried out and how are the conditions actually being built for people to return to work, perhaps even with innovative projects? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u50	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u51	Mr President, there are three legitimate questions on this subject that arise from the OECD estimates and so we will have the opportunity to explain from three different points of view the types of intervention we are taking. First of all I remember that the OECD, in September 2018, asked us not to delete the so-called Fornero law. Now, in a new report these days, he writes that it is necessary to repeal quota 100, showing consistency with what he has always supported but not bearing in mind that quota 100 was a commitment made by both the Movimento 5 Stars and the League with the Italians and we decided to keep the word given. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Moreover, I think it is wrong to ask already to repeal a measure that is having great success and that will soon impact on the quality of life of many Italians. Moreover, the OECD report reveals estimates that clearly cannot adequately consider the measures of the Government that are being implemented precisely in these days, including the decree growth and the decree unblock yards, which serve precisely to respond to the difficult economic situation that Europe is going through, which was not predictable and which is affected by the international clashes in terms of trade and the effect of Brexit. In order to answer the questions of the Senator, I start from the fact that every day at the MISE we talk to companies in crisis to ensure a quick and positive solution of the various problems, the productive continuity and the safeguard of the workers. As for social shock absorbers, at the Ministry of my competence we signed the decree with which the Regions were allocated 117 million euros for 2019 for complex crisis areas and I hope that the Ministry of Economy and Finance will sign this decree as soon as possible together with that on banks, which we are waiting for. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We aim to further increase the fund in the coming months. As regards the reasons for the delays in the implementation of projects to access the benefit, there are several aspects: the actual acquisition by the company of financial resources complementary to the legal contribution, changes in the program and organization of the enterprises and the necessity of the enterprises to carry out the projects longer than those initially anticipated, that is, some companies are changing the schedule of the projects that had presented us. With regard to the resources allocated for the coverage of all planned or programming interventions, taking into account industrial conversion and redevelopment projects covering complex industrial crisis areas, these interventions are allocated a total of 283 million euros. To these resources will have to be added part of the appropriation foreseen in the budget law, for the two-year 2019-2020, for the financing of the interventions under Law No 181 of 1989, destined for the conversion and the productive redevelopment of the industrial areas. We are talking about an additional EUR 150 million. As regards the requests received in the last few months, as requested in the question, if the applications for aid are referred to as requests for assistance submitted, it is evident that 112 applications have been received since December. As regards the requests for the start of the procedures for the recognition of industrial crisis areas, two requests were received for the recognition of the complex industrial crisis area of Turin and Massa-Carrara. I give the Commission the meritorious work on the survey you are carrying out. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u52	Senator Bellanova has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u53	Mr President, the Minister's answer is superficial, insufficient and partial. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] What we have been highlighting for months appears to be a desolation: the total absence of an idea, a vision of the country system. Minister, in Italy youth unemployment during your Government has risen from 32 to 32.8%. The data tells us that you have not abolished poverty, but the dignity of work has. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have repealed industrial policies, you have lost a precious year, chanting condons and happy decay. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] You have no idea of relaunching the measures of the previous government that you have set aside. Then we give you unsolicited advice. [[Comments of Senators Tavern and Castaldi Bonus]] research, Industry 4.0, tax credit [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] for those who invest in capital goods, strengthen the measures for innovation and training and the protection of Made in Italy: this is the system that creates work. Instead of organizing vacation tours, Minister, [[Applause from the PD Group]] from yellow vests, who preach violence and hatred, go to complex industrial crisis areas, go to Taranto, where they expect it from the elections. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Go to the workers of the Alcoa, do not force them to come under the Ministry to pity the payment of the Integration Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u54	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u55	MALPEZZI (PD). Thirty more seconds, ma'am. BELLANOVA (PD). Say how it supports and with what additional resources reindustrialization. Minister, you are celebrating the memorandum with China; have in mind, during these celebrations, that while you are trying to pick up some carts to export oranges to the third orange-producing country in the world, France sells 300 Airbus. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Minister, advice from someone of a certain age. CASTALDI (M5S). Again? LUPE (M5S). Time! BELLANOVA (PD). We love Italy. Minister, study and then tell us what industrial policies you want to tackle the country's problems. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u56	Senator Urso has the right to explain question 3-00755 on measures to support economic growth, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u57	Mr Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, it is now time for a first budget. More than ten months have passed since you swore as Deputy Premier, Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The predictions that you, not the OECD, made ten months ago in the budget documents have been resoundingly failed, turning out to be wrong. You initially predicted growth of 1.5%, then reduced, under pressure from the European Union, to 1.1%; instead, we are in full economic recession. We have been in economic recession for nine months and it is getting worse so that the latest forecasts speak for Italy, if it is okay, of a zero growth for this year. We are the only country in the European Union in economic recession, with industrial fall rates in February of -0.5%. Istat, not the OECD, today tells us that consumption has been reduced, household spending and saving capacity has been reduced, employment has been contracted. All negative data that have also emerged in this debate. My colleague from the League spoke of an important industry in Saluzzo and you said that you would open a regional crisis table. Do you know how many national crisis tables there are at your Ministry? 153. You promised the Pernigotti workers you'd save the company. I do not quote the statements made by the workers of Pernigotti, who are irreferible in this House. "Di Maio, many promises, but he snubbed us running like a (...)" and I let them imagine. [[Comments of Senator Wolf]] Pernigotti has closed and, next to that of Pernigotti, there are heavy industrial crises: from that of Alitalia, for which you promised an industrial solution and, instead, you will ask for a new referral, to Piaggio, for which she gives only the integration fund but does not find an industrial solution, to Termini Imerese, where it is now clear what has been a great scam, but where still she does not give an industrial solution. I ask you why your predictions were terribly wrong. Why was an economic miracle announced on 11 January of this year and are we, instead, in the midst of the economic, industrial and social recession of work and employment? Why do your measures, according to all national and international observers, have a negative impact on the country's industrial and social fabric? The final question, and I connect with the League, is: how long do you wait to change economic policy dramatically? Because Italian citizens do not need to become unemployed in order to be assisted by citizenship income subsidies. They need a Ministry that is really the Ministry of Economic Development and not the Ministry of Economic Recession. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u58	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u59	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Urso for his question. First of all, I would like to say to you, Senator Urso, that on the subject of Pernigotti the Ministry is working with the advisor precisely to find a solution for those workers and to ensure that this does not occur again. But Pernigotti's problem is not relocation. The problem is that there is a foreign subject who bought the brand and establishment with the workers. Now, you want to get rid of the plant and the workers and keep the mark. And instead we want that factory to continue to produce and that the Italian historical brands no longer end up in foreign hands precisely for these behaviors. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Having said that, your question, which deals mainly with industrial policies, also allows me to answer the final question of the previous Senator, who, on the other hand, asked me questions about social shock absorbers. The real issue is that you rightly say that there has been a problem of economic growth for nine months. But this shows that it is impossible that, since the day we entered the Ministry, we have caused a problem of economic growth for this country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Even if you want to do it, it's really complicated. If the European economic crisis is to be blamed on the Italian Government, let there be a long list of faults which are attributed to this Government by the whole world. We are launching a growth decree precisely to address this difficult economic situation at European and international level, due to the US-China customs war and the issue of Brexit, which is distrusting the markets. This has blocked exports and, for this reason, we have signed agreements with China, which are worth up to twenty billion euros for our companies that going to that market will be able to export oranges, yes, but also so much more excellence of Made in Italy to a country with high domestic demand. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Then, since Senator Bellanova mentioned previously some very important issues, which I share, I would like to give some details of the growth decree that we are about to vote on in the Council of Ministers as soon as the question time is over. Tax measures to encourage businesses and professionals. Among these: the super depreciation, the further deductibility of the IMU on industrial sheds, which goes more than 60% on capital goods, interventions for the reduction of the Ires, the bonus earthquake, that is the extension of facilities for areas classified as seismic risk 2 and 3. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Will you let me talk? MALPEZZI (PD). No! DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. No? I take note of that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, don't interrupt. Your Group has already spoken and you have not been interrupted. Don't interrupt the Minister. Don't bother! MALPEZZI (PD). But he's not answering! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not possible, Senator Malpezzi. There is no intercourse between you and the Minister. And I didn't give her the floor. Let the Minister finish. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments of Senators Bellanova and Biti.]] Please, Minister, continue. , Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Mr President, with great difficulty I am trying to illustrate the main points of a decree-law called growth and wants to act on the economic growth of the country, which is a concern of all the political forces present in this House, I imagine, both by majority and opposition. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The measure to increase the investment of social security funds in the real economy, a major investment plan in the ZES. There are measures for relaunching private investment, such as the effective reorganisation of the SME Guarantee Fund to support business access measures, which have enormous difficulties; the possibility of intervention by this fund also to guarantee bonds issued by small and medium-sized enterprises (the so-called minibonds), measures to support and encourage the capitalization of enterprises, substantial interventions in support of research and development projects for the conversion of production processes in the circular economy, measures to accelerate the completion of interventions provided for in territorial pacts and area contracts. There are measures for the protection of Made in Italy, which are the ones I have indicated above on historical brands, but there is also the 140 million euro program for the export of Made in Italy to the world, which is the highest figure ever allocated in the last ten years for the support of Made in Italy on the market and there are measures in the energy sector, which will have an impact on the economy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I believe that at this stage in which Europe - and first of all the industrial production of Germany - is suffering from this moment of crisis, this measure, the growth decree, together with the decree unblocks yards, are two measures that interpret the concerns of this House and put hand to a series of interventions to revive the Italian economy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u60	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u61	Of course, by interpreting what the viewers have heard, I can only say that I am deeply dissatisfied because the Minister has not answered the questions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Mr Urso (FdI). He made new promises, but he did not answer the question because after ten months we are in deep economic recession, not like the other European countries, because no other country among the 28 countries of the Union is in economic recession. MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Mr Urso (FdI). They all have more than 1, 2, 3, 4 percent growth in estimates. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I would add more, dear Minister: Italy was already the last car in growth, well this last car is moving away from the others, because the gap with the rest of the European Union is widening. You, therefore, do not answer the reasons why you failed and claim to give other recipes for the future. Before you say why your measures failed, because there was no economic miracle at all, there was no increase in industrial production at all, there was no increase in employment at all. This is not only determined by the international factor, which was predictable, because we told you that there was a negative international condition, so much so that according to Istat and the business associations, for three quarters the Italian crisis is Italian and the domestic consumption has decreased also affected by the decrease of the income of the families. The reduction of Italian public and private investment and the reduction of consumption, and therefore of the expectations of the families, are the two factors that have largely led to the economic recession. To a large extent, therefore, the recession is due to these effects, because exports last year continued to grow, albeit less than in previous years. It is therefore an internal factor which is obviously combined with international difficulties that you did not foresee. As far as the agreements on China are concerned, the two billion - because two billion is spoken of in the agreements, apart from expectations - are nothing compared to the 30 billion signed with a single contract from France that sold Airbus and in China our oranges go there for a long time, they go there by ship, because going there by plane is completely unproductive, because they cost too much air flights. Minister, please, we are not in the election campaign, at least we are not in this House. You must tell us whether you want to change economic policy and the measures you have announced are now warm cloths that the left, too, had tried to implement, you fish them and try to exchange them for a new economic policy. The only economic policy that this country needs is the reduction of taxes on those who work and on those who produce. The only economic policy that this country needs is an industrial policy that you do not even draw in this House because you do not have it, because yours is not the Ministry of Economic Development, it is the Ministry of Economic Recession, yours is not the Ministry of Labour, it is the Ministry of Aid. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Italy needs work and production, not state subsidies. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u62	Senator Pichetto Fratin has the right to explain the question 3-00756 on measures to facilitate development and support families, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, the data from all national and international observers indicate that Italy is a difficult situation, indeed a disastrous one: unemployment and public debt increase with a spread that makes interest in public debt very expensive; companies report a decline in orders; local authorities plan to increase taxes and tariffs at local level. The forecasts that the Government had represented on the change note to the Finance Economy Document in the autumn have completely skipped. Italy is in decline, far from happy. You are preparing to increase VAT to 25% and families will have to pay. The government seems in a confused state: continue to attack each other and produce disordered spending rules; continue to produce debt that the Italians will have to pay. Every day there is a novelty, some even shareable and a part listed them before. I would like to refer to the reduction of the Irpef, the over-immortizations and the intervention on research. At the same time, however, your commitment is focused on creating unemployed people, with Sunday closures, with the denial of vouchers, with the stiffening of the increasingly bureaucratic country. Your contract provided for a flat tax with an overall revision of the tax system, which finally allowed the country to free up the skills and the desire to work of the Italian people. It happened sporadically and partly created an imbalance in the entire system. Mr Minister, given the current failure of the various measures (dignity, concreteness and income of citizenship), what will be the action that will finally accompany a growth of our country with a real fiscal balance and, therefore, the overall reorganization with the flat tax (which was program of the center-right and, therefore, of the League) and with a serious family policy with the family quotient as announced only at the press conference? These are the actions on which we ask the government to invest. We ask you from the opposition, first from citizens and then from parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u64	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the right to answer the question that has just been put.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u65	Mr President, as was also said in the previous question, I fully agree that investing in companies in Italy is fundamental to promoting economic growth and the best way to invest is to lower taxes. Of course, these specific issues on taxation are not in the questions that have been asked to me earlier because, of course, in order to be eligible, they should see the Minister of Economic Affairs. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You asked me for things of my own competence as Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, and that leads me to be on time in the answers, but I can reassure the questioner that the issue of flat tax is within the government contract and it must be done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We will work to ensure that this result is taken home in our government action. We've been in the government for about nine months and you'll forgive us if we haven't been able to complete the entire government contract yet. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Having said that, I am glad that this debate often mentions the fact that France has signed important agreements with China, and that is why we have advanced and signed them too to avoid being beaten, once again, by a European partner who wandered us on the silk route, but then went to sign legitimate agreements. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Similarly, I say that the two main reasons for slowing down GDP in Italy are export and automotive. These two problems are solved by increasing trade relations to the east of the world in order to export more and by promoting the agreement between the European Union and the United States on duties, so as to allow European car exports to that economy again, because sometimes, even in German cars, almost 70% is made of Italian components and, therefore, also concern our industrial sector. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That said, the senator also asked me about family policies. We will bring policies within the DEF to help families who have children, in order to secure the middle class, precisely because at European level we have a problem with a negative economic situation. Securing the middle class means helping young couples - but also the younger couples - who have children, acting with a model similar to the French one, which we will begin to introduce gradually, which is based on concrete interventions: discounts on diapers, baby-sitters and nesting kindergartens. We will intervene with measures to allow children to those families that do not make them today because there is no economic possibility and certainly not because in Italy there are no love and the desire to bring children to the world. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u66	Senator Pichetto Fratin may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u67	Mr Minister, you are the Minister for Economic Development and, therefore, the system of businesses and households affected by the current organisation of taxation is your responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I think you've been involved in identifying that part of the companies that have to enjoy the 15 percent flat tax. Just a moment ago he cited Ires as an intervention of the decree-law that, today, the Government will adopt. It is clear that I cannot be satisfied with your reply, partly because it was yet another announcement on the future. This government trusts in the effect of the increase in consumption in the domestic part due to the effect of the income of citizenship. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] However, you are well aware that all the data tell us that citizenship income will not have such a multiplier as to generate an increase in consumption. On the contrary, it is necessary to be very careful because the mechanism established - here is the confusion - can create drives to black work and automatically induce people towards welfare. You announce investments every day, but you do not make them (the example is the realization of the Turin-Lion railway line). You announce aid to families, but - as I said before - the increase in VAT will be the only communication to families. You talk about pensions, but don't touch the minimum ones and next June, after the elections, the maximum ones you plan to cut them or they will be cut automatically. GDP declines (it is zero, if not negative), the tax burden is more than 48 percent (i.e. Istat data), the public debt is more than 132 of GDP, while the number of people employed in this country is 200,000 less. It is this scenario that the government must face and must do so quickly. I hope that it will succeed - first of all for the Italian citizen and for the good of Italy - and that this Government will not be remembered only for the purchase of 1,800 blue cars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u68	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u71	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, I am happy to do this today, since we have talked a lot about Made in Italy. Wine is one of the sectors that can export a lot to the world. It is one of our excellences and we can beat other European countries, also in the Chinese market.This is how Luigi Di Maio on the eve of Vinitaly in Verona, confirming his presence at the event next weekend. Well, I want to talk about wine in my speech, in order to make the colleagues of an exceptional occasion that our country is called to live in this 2019. I am referring to the recognition of the European city of wine, which this year has been assigned to Italy and - precisely - to Sannio, awarded the prestigious recognition by the network of 800 wine cities in 11 European countries. The network, formed by national associations in the 11 member countries (Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Spain, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Portugal and Serbia) covers a total of almost 800 cities across Europe. Since 2012, he also annually assigns the role of capital of the wine culture of the old continent to a country of the Union, placing it at the center of attention and promoting in this way the cultural activity, identity, landscapes and territories of the chosen place because, as Master Luigi Veronelli said: Wine is the song of the earth towards heaven. 2019 saw this important prize awarded to Italy and, among the realities that proposed its candidacy, the territory of Sannio Falanghina prevailed, in particular the Municipalities of Castelvenere, Guardia Sanframondi, Sant'Agata dei Goti, Solopaca and Torrecuso, all of the province of Benevento. For me, therefore, it is a real pleasure to share with you this result that my land has conquered deservedly and I would like to remind you that to date the Sannio everything, and not only the municipalities that have signed under the name Sannio Falanghina, is at the peak of Europe in the wine sector, obtaining continuous recognitions. That is why I very much hope that many people will decide to visit these places, to taste the fruits of the earth and, as far as I am concerned, I am pleased to be the spokesperson for this extraordinary recognition. Having said that, I would also like to remind you that last March, the European wine capital met with the European Capital of Culture; in fact, in Matera, the Biowine project was presented, which concerns the transfer of good practices for the protection of the environment in viticulture and which involves some important realities of Veneto, Campania and Basilicata. Starting from here, therefore, the Municipality of Matera proposed to plant rows of falanghina in the gardens of the territory to celebrate the year of the double European capital and strengthen the rooting of the wine-culture binomial. Meanwhile, and I close, just at Vinitaly will be presented the detailed program of initiatives that will develop throughout 2019 to celebrate the European capital of wine that, with pride, I confirm to be the territory of my Benevento. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-107.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 April, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15:53 a.m.
