ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.09 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 13 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers and subsequent debate. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u5	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I have asked to speak to report on the government crisis triggered by the statements of the Minister of the Interior, leader of one of the two majority forces. I have always clearly argued that, in the event of an early interruption of government action, I would return here to the institutional seat where I initially gained confidence. I would like to point out that this initiative does not conceal the duty of a lawyer, nor is it dictated by a movement of personal pride. It stems from the deep conviction that confrontation in this House, frank, transparent, is the most effective means of ensuring the proper functioning of a parliamentary democracy. It is not, of course, a question of paying homage to mere rules of form, but of respecting rules which involve political substance, set up to ensure the full protection of the rights of all citizens. On August 8, 2019 Minister Salvini, after having anticipated the decision during a long conversation, issued a note stating that the League was no longer willing to continue this experience of government and called for the immediate return to elections. To confirm this decision, the League deposited a motion of no confidence with the Government in Parliament and requested its immediate timetable. We are faced with an objectively serious decision, which has very important consequences for the political, economic and social life of the country. That is why it deserves to be clarified in a public debate that allows transparent assumption of responsibility on the part of all those involved in the crisis. The policy of our day develops, for a large part, on the communicative level, relying, as we know, on simplified language. It's kind of the inexorable sign of the times. But I have guaranteed, from the beginning, that this would be a governmental experience in the name of transparency and change; and I cannot allow this important institutional passage to be consumed by means of confidential conciliations, communications entrusted to social media, statements issued on the street or in the squares, without a full and official contradictory. The only place where public debate can take place in an institutional way, in a transparent way, is Parliament, where you, representatives of the nation and of all citizens, sit. The decision of the League to interrupt this experience of government in order to return urgently to the electoral ballots is objectively serious and I explain why. First of all, this crisis intervenes to stop prematurely a government action that was going on and that, already in the first year, had achieved many results and still many were achieving them. Secondly, this government was born to intercept the dissatisfaction of the citizens who, with the vote of 4 March 2018, had expressed the desire for a change of pace with respect to previous policies and, for this reason, aimed to achieve a broad reformist plan, which is now abruptly interrupted. Thirdly, this decision violates the solemn commitment that the leader of the League had made at the beginning of the legislature, signing the government contract with the Movimento 5 Stars. I would remind you that the contract provides, in the event of differences, for the commitment of the parties, I quote, "to discuss it with the utmost care and in accordance with the principles of good faith and loyal cooperation." Fourthly, the timing of this decision exposes our country to serious risks. A crisis in the middle of August potentially involves early elections in the autumn; considering the constitutionally necessary time for the convocation of the new Chambers and for the formation of the Government, the risk of being found in the provisional financial year is highly probable [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the context of an international economic situation which is certainly not favourable, the new Government would find itself in difficulty to counter the increase in VAT and with an economic system exposed to financial speculations and to changes in the spread. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, I would add that this crisis intervenes at a delicate moment in the intercourse with the European institutions. We are starting a parliamentary term, and it is precisely these days that negotiations are about to be concluded on the appointment of Commissioners and on the coverage of other sensitive positions. I have so far personally worked to assure Italy of a central importance in the new structures, in line with the prestige and economic and cultural strength of our country. It is clear that Italy is now in danger of participating in this negotiation in conditions of objective difficulty and weakness. These are the reasons why I consider the decision to trigger the government crisis to be highly irresponsible. On this basis, allow me to say that the Minister of the Interior has shown that he is pursuing personal and party interests. [[Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the M5S Group]] I consider it fully legitimate for political formation to aim to increase its electoral consensus, but in order for a democratic system to pursue the common good and to function according to criteria of efficiency, each party is called to work a mediation, filtering the interests of the party in the light of general interests. When a political force focuses only on partisan interests and evaluates its choices exclusively according to the criterion of electoral convenience, it not only betrays the nobler vocation of politics, but ends up compromising national interest. When taking on such important institutional positions, moreover by signing a government contract and by opening the Government of change, we must be aware that we assume specific duties and specific responsibilities towards citizens and towards the State, which cannot be set aside for the first useful convenience. Making citizens vote is the essence of democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Bravo! Bravo! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Encouraging them to vote every year is irresponsible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The choices made and the behaviour adopted in recent days by the Minister of the Interior - I take full responsibility for what I say - reveal a lack of institutional sensitivity and a serious lack of constitutional culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u6	Colleagues, please, do not interrupt the President of the Council all the time, even with applause. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u7	Please, President Count. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Why open the crisis in the middle of August, when for many weeks now - certainly already at the outcome of the European elections - was clear the impatience for the continuation of an experience of government judged evidently by now limiting the political ambitions of those who clearly claimed full powers to lead the country? The decision to postpone until now the communication of a decision clearly taken for a long time - I regret to say so with such sharpness - is a gesture of grave institutional impudence, first of all irrational towards Parliament and in any case liable to plunge the country into a whirlwind spiral of political uncertainty and financial instability. Moreover, this decision was announced by the Minister of the Interior immediately after having received the approval, with confidence, of the decree-law security- bis, with a temporal coincidence that suggests political opportunism. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Bonis and De Falco]] Finally, the behaviour of a political force appears to be blatantly contradictory, but after submitting a motion of no confidence to the Government to Parliament, it does not withdraw its ministers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Bonis and De Falco. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would say objectively that it is difficult to reconcile the presentation and maintenance of a motion of distrust with the standing of its ministers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Falco.]] Friends of the League, in order to prepare and justify the decision to return to the electoral ballot box, you tried to accredit - allow me, clumsily - the idea of a government of no, of not doing. In order to beat this phony media gambass, you have stained fourteen months of intense government activity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this way you have offended not only my personal commitment - steps - but also the constant dedication of your own Ministers and Undersecretaries, who have joined me until the last day, with passion and dedication, in the activities of government. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this way you have offended the truth of the facts and obscured the measures to strengthen the security that citizens have been waiting for for years: the anti-corruption rules, the protocol of action for the Land of Fires, the red code against violence against women. You have obscured all the various measures taken to accelerate and revive the investments: the decree growth, unblocking yards, simplifications, the decree Genoa, the plan Protects Italy against the hydrogeological failure (for the first time in Italy), the norms to unblock the funds for the school building and to unlock the leftovers of administration of the municipalities. You have trampled on the social protection measures that we have adopted together: quota 100, decree of dignity, income of citizenship, refunds to savers cheated by banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have clouded the myriad of initiatives, which have been worth unlocking still works for years, indeed from lustres: the third pass, the TAP, the highways Asti-Cuneo, Ragusa-Catania, the quadrilateral Marche-Umbria, the airports of Crotone, Foggia and Reggio Calabria, the port of Gioia Tauro, the various measures of resolution of the corporate crises in order to revive the South... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is also your job. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The various measures to strengthen research, to make public administration more efficient, to unblock recruitment in the public sector. I would remind you that we now finally have a single tariff plan for motorway concessions, which will enable us to more effectively control actual investments and any increase in tolls. You have deleted the various measures with which we have started tax reform and invested in technological innovation. You have obscured the actions of reform of the governance of the sport, the successes achieved with the assignment to Milan and Cortina of the Winter Olympics of 2026... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). But you didn't want them! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. ...and the ATP Finals of tennis in Turin. This is a government that has worked intensely until the last day and has produced numerous significant reforms, other than Government of the No. The truth is another: in the aftermath of the European competition, the Minister of the Interior and leader of the League, strong of the electoral success achieved, put in place an operation of progressive detachment from the action of government, an operation that ended up distracting him from his own institutional tasks and led him to the constant search for a pretext, that could justify the crisis of government and the return to the ballot box. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Salvini, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for the Interior. About this mistake, my friend. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. You'll talk in replica. This decision, however, has compromised the work already undertaken for the definition of the fiscal law, which would have introduced a more incisive tax reform, containing what, with simplified formula, is currently called flat tax, but also a more comprehensive reform, involving tax justice, on which it is urgent to intervene, with the necessary reduction of the tax wedge, investment and export support measures, a recovery plan for the South, various interventions in the sign of spending review, an articulated and completed project of privatisations. Similarly, the broad reform plan entrusted to Parliament, where, as you know, various draft laws are being examined, which, once approved, would have allowed the Government to adopt various legislative decrees, containing sector codes aimed at reordering the legislation and reducing the bureaucracy of many major areas of activity. The early dissolution of the Chambers would also halt the reforms of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as of the CSM, designed above all to speed up the times of justice and thus make our country more competitive even in the eyes of foreign investors. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The country urgently needs to complete the measures to make the investment plan more and more effective and to promote economic growth. As you know, we have prepared various instruments that with this uncertainty risk not being properly valued: the interministerial management booth Strategy Italy, the task force of the Presidency of the Council InvestItalia and the design center at the Agency of State property. Dear Minister of the Interior, dear Matthew, by promoting this crisis of government you have assumed a great responsibility in front of the country. You announced it by asking for full powers to govern the country and, still recently, I have heard you invoke the squares for your support: this your conception, let me say, worries me. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). You're worried about the vote, the safe one! MARGIOTTA (PD). Good Romeo, great! Mr Laus (PD). Be quiet. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. First of all, in our republican system, government crises are not tackled or regulated in the streets, but in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Secondly, the principle of weights and counterweights is absolutely essential in order to ensure the necessary balance to our democratic system and to prevent authoritarian drifts. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Dear Matthew, inspire your action to sovereignist conceptions, and we have often even talked about it. Allow me then to recall the thought of a ruler enlightened far in time, Frederick II of Swabia: "Although our majesty is loosed by every law, it does not rise above the judgment of reason, which is the mother of law." [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] We do not need men with full powers, but people with institutional culture and a sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If you had shown culture of rules and institutional sensibility, the whole government action would certainly have benefited. There have been many episodes and multiple attitudes that I have always pointed out to you privately and, unfortunately, sometimes even publicly. For example, this year I tried to start early to develop an appropriate economic maneuver, because the government action would have greatly benefited from it; I asked you to give me the names of the delegates of the League to sit at the government tables, but you made me wait two months in vain before doing so. If I had agreed to meet the social partners at Palazzo Chigi with me and the other members of this Government, we would certainly have credited the greater cohesion of the government team in the eyes of the country and prevented the effectiveness of the joint action from being compromised. If you had agreed to come here to the Senate to report on the Russian affair, a story that objectively deserves to be clarified also for the reflections on the international level [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You would have avoided your President-in-Office coming to your post, refusing to share the information you have with him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Coinciding with the most important European Councils I attended, you failed to contain the communicative heat and made public statements on the topics on the agenda, creating a sort of political counter-song that risked creating confusion, did not benefit your prestige and certainly did not help to strengthen the authority of our country. On many occasions you have invaded the powers of other ministers [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] creating overlaps and interferences that have ended up undermining the effectiveness of the action. You publicly criticized the work of individual ministers, crippling the compactness of the government team, when I myself had begged you, in the aftermath of the European elections, to report directly and confidentially to me any observations regarding the composition of the government team. The culture of the rules, the respect of the institutions certainly do not improvise, but they are fundamental qualities to aspire to the role of Minister of the Interior or even President of the Council of Ministers, who has responsibilities, must work on concrete and sustainable solutions, without chasing or even soliciting the emotional reactions of the citizens. Allow me to make one final remark. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator La Russa.]] This in truth - I admit - I have never told you, also because it does not specifically concern our tasks as a government: those who have responsibilities should avoid, during the meetings, approaching the political slogans the religious symbols. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Ripamonti exhibits a chain with a crucifix.]] Matthew, in my assessment these behaviors have nothing to do with the principle of freedom of religious conscience, rather they are episodes of religious unconsciousness [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which risk offending the sentiment of believers and at the same time obscuring the principle of secularism, a fundamental feature of the modern state. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, I am addressing the League because it is the party that has taken the initiative to stop the action of government, but I also invite you to take advantage of this first experience of government. When taking up positions of government, it is necessary to be fully aware of the responsibilities that result and to avoid, in particular, being conditioned by polls, if necessary even not favourable. We have to let the assessments of government work be done at the end, at the end of the day. I have spent a great deal of time here on the culture of the institutions, so let me stress that when the President-in-Office of the Council comes to the House to make an information request from Parliament, as was the case in the Senate on the occasion of the Russian affair, respect for the institutions would require that we remain in the Chamber to listen to him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from PD and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] .) And there's no reason... I would like to listen to the President-in-Office of the Council without seeing any typho-series. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. And there's no reason for it to justify a departure. Madam President, kind senators and kind senators, the current crisis inevitably compromises the action of this Government, which is being stopped here. But there's still a lot to do. Italy is in fact going through a period of great transformations: a time of passages, Habermas would say. There is a great need for politics with the capital P, which means ability to design the future, expressing at a time perspective vision and realization effectiveness. We need to work to provide our young people with just opportunities for personal and professional life. Every young person who leaves and does not return is a defeat for the future of our country; if we cannot hold them back, we will expose Italy to a destiny of inexorable decline. Our schools must become learning workshops, where how to learn it must be much more important than what to learn, and our young people must retain the ability to constantly improve their knowledge. The whole training system must be directed towards digital skills, which will increasingly be required also in the labour market. It is necessary to strengthen the entire research department, by implementing a more effective coordination system between universities and research bodies, including through a national agency. It is necessary to pursue policies of social inclusion in order to recover at work the groups of the currently marginalised population. The Constitution requires us to do this: the full development of the person, the principle of substantial equality referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3. Families with people with disabilities cannot remain abandoned to themselves. In this area too, we must proceed with the greatest political sensitivity to alleviate this personal, family and social distress. At the same time as the project of differentiated autonomy, which will have to be completed - as we were doing - without sacrificing the principles of social solidarity and national cohesion, it is necessary to launch a plan to relaunch the South which contains an organic project to enhance investment and increase employment even in the most disadvantaged areas of the country. The policy must work towards a major plan which gives Italy a leadership position in the field of new eco-sustainable economic models. Look at us taking advantage: in Europe we already distinguish ourselves for the use of renewable energy; we must aim for the use of the most innovative and sophisticated scientific techniques to consolidate this primacy. We already have state-of-the-art projects - thought of - in the exploitation of energy from wave motions. We can use new production techniques based on so-called biomimetics. The objective to be pursued must be an effective ecological transition in order to achieve an articulated industrial policy that, without running out of economic dirigism, can gradually direct the entire production system towards a circular economy that favours the culture of recycling and finally disbands the culture of rejection. Fair and sustainable development must encourage us to systematically integrate a new model of growth into government action, which is no longer economic. We must encourage the practices of socially responsible companies, which will make our production fabric increasingly competitive even in the global market. I trust that the BenessereItalia directing booth, which I have recently set up, will be useful for these purposes, even in the future. It is necessary to promote the endless routes of tourism, enhancing the incredible richness of our natural, historical and artistic heritage. This enhancement must also go through the recovery of our oldest cultural identities, our local traditions, the beauty of our villages and small municipalities. I would like to remind you that, with very recent deliberations, we have established that next 26 October is the national day dedicated to popular and folk traditions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Expansive economic and social policy must be pursued, without jeopardising the balance of public finance and with it the saving of citizens. More generally, politics must respond to the challenges of the global world by relaunching a range of proposals and solutions that I have repeatedly summarized in my speeches under the formula "new humanism." I'm not here to summarize them, but this was the polar star that led me through these months of government. Europe too needs a renewed momentum of responsibility. The ideals that had nurtured the initial stages of the integration project are gradually losing their power and the common European building is going through a particularly critical phase. There is certainly no answer to this crisis with a Europeanism that I have repeatedly called trustworthy, but neither can a skepticism disrupting, aimed at compromising the achievements achieved in sixty years, if anything by calling for the return to national sovereignty closed and conflictual, with sterile retreats identity. Instead, we need to re-launch, work to relaunch the European project and restore full attractiveness to it. We cannot focus solely on financial rigour; we must reconsider models of development and growth that have proved to be failures in recent years. We need a more sustainable, more supportive, more inclusive Europe, especially closer to citizens, which also shows consideration for those who live in the many outskirts (and I am not just talking about geographical areas). We need to work to strengthen women's rights, to tackle new social issues and to recognise new rights, to which the European order must offer protection and protection thanks to its sophisticated multi-level protection system, which - believe me - is unique in intensity and completeness in the world. Moved by this deep conviction I have tried, in these fourteen months, to direct Italy's policy along the path of a critical Europeanism, but always constructively oriented. In this spirit I have dealt with the most delicate stages of a confrontation with Europe, managing to avoid Italy twice an infringement procedure for excessive debt, which would have proved particularly harmful. The recent designation of Ursula von der Leyen as President of the European Commission is also an operation to which Italy has made a decisive contribution. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] At the European Council at the end of June, I personally spent my time on this solution, avoiding generally less favourable solutions for our country. Let us try to seize all the opportunities before us, rather than counter these new challenges in a sterile way, ultimately compromising our own national interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italy has the possibility to play an important role also at the international level. We can play a key role for historical, geographical and cultural reasons in the enlarged Mediterranean: it is a region currently marked by humanitarian crises, by insidious conflicts, but it remains a land of opportunity and in the common interest we must work to ensure security and prosperity. We must continue in our efforts to promote a political solution that puts an end to the military conflict in Libya. Italy must become an interpreter in Europe of the positive role that Africa can play in international dynamics, promoting a new model of cooperation between peers, which completely exceeds the models of the past based on asymmetrical approaches. With various state visits I have promoted the improvement of relations with countries that offer great opportunities for development to our economic system, first of all China (as you will recall, we have joined the project "The new way of silk," introducing our European standards), India, Vietnam, the Russian Federation. However, our foreign policy, while in a geopolitical context in strong movement, must remain faithful to the two pillars of the transatlantic relationship and the relationship with the European Union, of which we remain a founding country. I'm going to conclude. At the beginning of this experience, when the President of the Republic gave me office, I declared that I would be the lawyer of the people, promising to defend with the utmost commitment all the citizens who immediately, although not knowing me, gave me confidence and for this I thank them. It is precisely because of this commitment that I must conclude today. The decision of the League, which presented the motion of distrust and demanded its immediate calendarization, as well as the clear and unique statements and behaviours that have been in place in recent days, in recent weeks, require me to stop this experience of government here. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of course, I will listen very carefully to all the speeches that will follow, but I would like to announce that I intend to complete this institutional transition in the most linear and consequent way. At the end of the parliamentary debate I will go to the President of the Republic to officially inform him of the interruption of this experience of government and resign in his hands my resignation as President of the Council. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Mr Laus (PD). Bravo! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. The President of the Republic, supreme guarantor of the constitutional balance, will guide the country in this delicate institutional transition. I take this opportunity to publicly renew to him my deep gratitude for the advice and support he has constantly honored me with. I would like to thank all the Members who have been part of the majority forces for giving me the opportunity to serve Italy. I would also like to thank all the members of the opposition forces: you criticized me, you disagreed with my views, but every time I spoke in this House I always took your attitude, your words, into consideration. This assignment, this experience, leaves me a great legacy. It's enriched me enormously. It transmits me, and I hope it can transmit it also to the youngest people who listen to us from home, great confidence for the future of our country. I was able to experience in person that, even in a very complicated context, it is possible to make politics without following consensus on social media, without having to depend dramatically on the title of a newspaper, without ever insulting a political opponent or inventing enemies around every corner. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] I can testify that, although communicative slogans seem effective in the immediate future, even more effective political reasonings based on the strength of arguments are demonstrated. I can testify that, when you are called to make painful choices, and several times I have happened, you can still receive the appreciation of the citizens, if you can explain to them, in full transparency, that these choices are inspired by the general interest and not by personal gain. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will be able to testify that, even in the face of radically opposite positions, and this too has often happened, there is always room for constructive confrontation, for reaching a point of mediation, which - attention - must not be commonly understood as a simple middle way, but as the most deserving solution in the interests of all citizens. I can testify that, if the assignments are lived, not as a privileged position, but as a daily opportunity to serve the State, the sacrifices made are largely repaid; and not only by the love felt for one's own homeland, but also by the affection of the good people, who are the vast majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, I will be able to testify that, if you try to carry out with discipline and honor, as the Constitution provides, the daily commitment that involves a munus publicum, the citizens also forgive us any personal mistakes and shortcomings. I can also confirm that politics really is that noble art that allows us - and I quote freely from Martin Buber - to pursue paths of rationality in the recognition of diversity. Finally, I thank the people most dear to me, the closest affections, for the sacrifices that I imposed on them in spite of me and for which they were not prepared at all. This assignment has allowed me to better know Italy, the country in which I grew up, the country I love immensely. Our homeland has enormous potential for growth, an immense economic, social and cultural capital, which is appreciated all over the world, I would say even more than we ourselves do. We all have to work hard, each in his daily life, to increase his prestige even more. Long live our homeland! Long live Italy! [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S Group, whose senators stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders organised the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers, for a maximum of three hours and forty-five minutes, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u9	Mr. President, do I speak from government benches or senators? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Better than that, Minister. (Minister Salvini goes to his position as senator. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Thank you and finally. I'd do everything I've done again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Everything! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] With the great strength of being a free man; this means that I am not afraid of the judgment of Italians. In this House there are free women and men and women and men who are a little less free. [[Senator Verducci's comments.]] Who is afraid of the judgment of the Italian people is not a free woman or man. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Quite simply. It is the salt of democracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Allow me, Mr President, however, to say that I am sorry that you have had to put up with me for a year. It's a novelty today. I didn't realize. I'm sorry. Dangerous, authoritarian, worrying, irresponsible, opportunist, ineffective, unconscious: it was enough for the Saviano in turn to collect all this following of insults. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You didn't need the President of the Council. Just a Saviano, a Travaglio, a Renzi, not the President of the Council. MALPEZZI (PD). Again? SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Also because we care about Italy that will be not tomorrow morning based on surveys or social, but Italy of 2050. I would like to point out, as the numbers attest, what the situation of the country will be in 2050, if it is not guided with courage and freedom. I hope that those in this House will know this, but I would like to transfer it to those who are at home, to real Italy, not to virtual Italy which often and willingly has an interest in keeping only its chair. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To the real country, which works, which is in the hospital, in the company, in the office today. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Because - allow me - the most surreal criticism of all was that there was no crisis in August, because August for Members is sacred. The parliamentarians work in Ferragosto, as all the other Italians work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You don't understand why August doesn't; July does, September does, but August doesn't. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We make senators or ministers a month yes and a month no. There are problems. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] It's obvious. I, President-in-Office of the Council, did not speak badly of some of my colleagues, I do not allow myself. However, as Minister of the Interior, however dangerous and authoritarian he said, I bring home a safer Italy after this year of Government. (Senator Bini shows a sign.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, remove that sign. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). But leave it to him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We don't have to prove anything here to anyone, we need fairness. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Minister, please. BITI (PD). Senator, not Minister! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am in no hurry, I have time for free men who are not afraid to give up the chair and put it in the hands of the Italian people. It's okay. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, allow me only a nuance and then tell this House and those outside Italy that we have in our hearts, that it is not an Italy that grows of the zero comma, but a country that deserves vision, courage, loyalty, sacrifice and justice, the real one. I'm talking about a country where there are 60 million suspected innocents until proven guilty and not 60 million suspected guilty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the difference between a rule of law and the return to the jungle. Speaking of sovereignty, freedom and Europe, quote for quote, I return to Cicero: freedom does not consist in having a just master, but in having no master. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I don't want an Italy slave to anyone, I don't want the chain as long as dogs, I don't want chains. We are the most beautiful and potentially richest country in the world and I am fed up that every step of ours (I speak of Governments, Regions, Municipalities, Enterprises or Workers) must depend on the signature of some official of the European Union. Are we or are we not a free and sovereign country? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Are we or are we not a free country to defend its borders, its companies, its beaches? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It never happened to me to talk to Chancellor Merkel about party interest, asking for advice to win the election campaign, because Salvini closed the ports. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It never happened to me. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I've never had coffee with anyone with the complaint that Salvini closes the ports. I did and I will do it again, if the good Lord and the Italians give me back the strength to return to the government. In Italy you arrive if you have permission to arrive. That's it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If anyone is homesick about mass immigration and the illegal immigration business, he can't get along with me. [[Senator Verducci's comments.]] If someone at the table, for weeks or months, thought of a change of alliance - let's drop those League balls and rather swallow the PD - he had nothing to say in this House. We're not afraid. However, regarding what this Government has done, I see you carrying out the reform law on banks and compensating savers cheated with Maria Elena Boschi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I see you reforming the CSM with Lotti and doing the job reform with Matteo Renzi, father of the jobs act. I see you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I think that in democracy the main way is, always and in any case, to ask our employers, who are the Italian citizens, for their opinion. We are civil servants at the service of the Italian people and should never be afraid of them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] VAT does not increase if you vote in October and there is a government in office in November. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this to those who are at home: in Austria we vote at the end of September, in Poland in mid-October, probably also in Spain we will vote in October, there are no disasters. [[Comments of Senator Stefano]] That's how democracy works. We vote and the fate of this Parliament is in the hands of the Italian people, not of 30 senators who, in order not to go home and give up the chair, would also vote for the Government of the Turquoise Fairy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Do not tell us about VAT, spread, temporary exercise and recession. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's see if there's the will and the strength to go to the vote. Let's talk about what the numbers say, beyond all that good this government has done. It is undeniable and we take half of the merits: not all, but half, fifthy fitty, although I read that someone says they did everything else. We take half, fifty and fifty, of the merits and demerits. We have done good things and we have made mistakes, because those who make mistakes and only those who do nothing pontificate and never make mistakes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Who works is wrong: it can be... I am not returning to Italy designed for 2050 by Istat, that of the zero comma and European rules. We do, however, if they let us do so from Brussels, otherwise the maintenance of schools, the maintenance of roads and the increase in disability pensions can wait, because there is the father master who must tell us whether we can or cannot. A fury of "you can" and "you can't" in 2050 Italy will lose 6 million people of working age between fifteen and sixty-four years and risks being one of the few countries in the world to experience a reduction of the working age population. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Italy will lose 4.5 million Italians, because they will emigrate elsewhere, and in return it will import 10.5 million immigrants. I'm not returning to a scared country, and I'm getting older and older. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which must depend on those who are the new slaves, who are comfortable for someone. No! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Valente's comments.]] That is why we need a courageous economic maneuver, which we have been working on for months. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You reproached me for having summoned the social partners - traders, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, engineers, architects, labour consultants, trade unions, taxi drivers and fishermen - to the Ministry of the Interior. Do you know why I did this? Because no one was listening to them. (Loud [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If someone had done it before me, we would have done it faster. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , because no one listened to them: closed, closed, closed! Let's open ourselves to Italy, without fear and with our heads high. This is a brave economic maneuver... COLLINA (PD). All salvini banality (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said you would resign. Last week we met again in this House the challenge of our 5 Star Movimento friends. I remember Luigi Di Maio... VALENTE (PD). It's 11 minutes since he's been sitting there. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have 40 minutes!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u10	Minister Salvini asked to speak for 20 minutes. I was wrong before I said ten minutes. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. You can speak for 20 minutes, about the forty minutes that were granted at the Conference of the Leaders Group to the League. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]] They were distributed this way and I stick to the distribution of the individual Groups. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Is that clear? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome, Minister. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). If I may, I'm in no hurry... You couldn't, actually. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u11	I was talking about Italy that we want to leave to our children, which obviously has roots in the Constitution and parliamentary rules. However, I did not understand the President-in-Office's many words about the alleged disvalue of leaving the Palaces to listen to the Italians, where they live and work. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] In my opinion, it is essential, for a good politician, never lose the desire to listen to citizens [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , to understand, to gather advice, proposals, criticisms and suggestions. [[Senator Matrisciano's comments.]] Otherwise you risk talking to yourself. The emergency in this country is the fact that no more children are born. [[Comments of Senator Valente]] , so the League is ready to support an economic maneuver if it will have at least - I emphasize - 50 billion to reduce taxes to Italian entrepreneurs, families and workers, according to what France will do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Collina's comments.]] They now ask the second industrial power - this country - to respect the zero comma, when for years France and Germany do not care about the rules by which they are ruining a people composed of 60 million free women and men. Can we invest in health, in the right to life, in the right to work, in the right to happiness, as in the declaration of independence of the United States of America? But I understand that courage, as Manzoni wrote, one, if he does not have it, is difficult to give it; listening to the citizens, in this respect, is therefore fundamental, but I will never fall into the error that I have heard from someone in recent weeks - without wanting to give lessons - of the daily and systematic insult. [[Senator Mirabelli's laughter.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is also because, if this Government has broken down, it is because for months there have been in the Commission, in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers of the Member States blocking everything. [[Laughter from the M5S Group. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] And it is not a personal attack, because I am not interested in personal attacks; however, if in some Ministry, instead of unlocking, it freezes, as in a port of fog, it does not do a useful service to the country. For weeks and months, stubbornly and patiently, I told our women and our men, "Let's go ahead, because I believe it and trust it": but the answer was no, no, no. Allow me to remind you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that last week in this House - not six thousand years ago, but in 2019 - the government's majority power voted for distrust, saying no to the TAV. What are we talking about, then? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] And no here, and no there: everywhere in the world, if you find oil, you celebrate, because it means wealth and jobs; but we don't, we block them and question companies that give thousands and thousands of jobs, thinking of going back. [[Senator Matrisciano's comments.]] The happy decline I do not know: the Italians want to grow and want development, roads, highways, ports, airports, railways, schools and hospitals that work. We will miss 20,000 doctors in the coming years; Let's hire them. No, it is necessary to ask Europe's opinion to hire 20,000 doctors; ohibo, but if people are ill, I have to hire doctors. As Minister of the Interior, I know very well that there will be less than 40,000 women and men in uniform in the coming years: either we allocate the money to hire these 40,000 women and men of the State Police or we complete the disaster carried out by the Democratic Party, which has blocked the recruitment and the country for years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Richetti's comments.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You didn't find a euro! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). But how can anyone think of bringing back to the Renzi Government, which the Italians have thrown out of the door, elected after election, after election, after election? Congratulations! [[Senator Pharaoh displays a sign bearing the inscription: "And even today he resigns tomorrow #Salvini liar". Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I heard President Prodi, and then it would be us...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u12	There is nothing to prove, ladies and gentlemen: we cannot go on with these performances any longer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u13	Please, Minister, continue. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). This is what I would like to offer to Italians: a future of growth, development, prosperity, well-being, family and courage. Allow me then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are wronging the Italian people and the Italian Catholics when you think they vote on a rosary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Italians, Catholics or non-Catholics, vote with their heads and hearts and I am proud to believe and testify with my work that I believe and I have never asked for protection for myself, but for the Italian people the protection of the Immaculate Heart of Mary I ask it as long as I can, because this is a country that deserves everything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, whose senators stand up. Live comments from PD and Mixed Groups. Senator Pillon exposes a crucifix]] Mr Marcucci (PD). President, you can't! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please do not display religious symbols in this House. Put the symbols away. VOICES FROM THE PD AND JOINT CATEGORIES. Shame! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). And I am not ashamed to deliver the fate of the Italian people into the hands of those who are at the top. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you! DE FALCO (Mixed). You go home! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am not ashamed, but I am the last and humble witness, the last of the last, but I am proudly the last and humble witness. [[Live comments from PD and Mixed Groups]] You are wronging common sense, even before the faith of the Italian people, also because I am not the victim, but in this year she sacrificed herself, it is true... NENCINI (PD). Show us the stigmata! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...and I'm glad I started working with her last year, just as I will never cultivate the anger and resentment that I feel over the past few weeks from someone. Omnia wins love, love always wins. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] I'm not afraid, you've chosen the target, here I am. You have chosen the danger for Italy and Europe, here I am, ready to sacrifice me. [[Ironic applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] Hello, no problem. My country and the future of Italians are worth more than a thousand seats, I'm not afraid to give up our seats. MARGIOTTA (PD). Come on, then! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). The women and men of the League are not afraid [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, whose senators stand up]] , are not afraid the Ministers of the League, free people who answer only and only to the Italian people, not to Merkel or Macron, only and only to the Italian people, proud, free, proud, sovereign, sovereign! With an idea of the future, of children, of the family; of children who have a mother and a father, I add, if you really have to say it all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Live comments from the PD group. Senators Cirinna and Laus display signs]] And good work with the Bibbiano party.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u14	Senator Cirinna, stop it! It does not seem to me that this is the debate that each of us wanted. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr. President, time! You have to respect the rules. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop calling me back about the times, I have them in front of my eyes. Stop it. Minister Salvini, terms. MALPEZZI (PD). He's got them in front of his eyes, but he can't see them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u15	Thank you very much, President. And then the authorities would be us, which is weird. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are the only supposed fascists who want the vote, we are the only dictators who want the vote. Think of the strange dictatorship that we would like to establish: the dictatorship of the vote of the Italian people, think a bit, what incredible stuff. MIRABELLI (PD). Respect the rules! You don't respect the rules! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I do not extend, but tell us very simply, beyond this, of the personal attacks that I regret, for God's sake, but to which I am also willing to prevail, because I felt I had understood that if on the part of the Movimento 5 Stars there was not already a prepacked agreement with the Democratic Party... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Time! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Oh signur! Can I finish? Mr Marcucci (PD). The rules apply to everyone!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u16	I'm the only one who decides, so... Stop it. [[Ironic applause from Senator Marcucci.]] I didn't contingency times with anyone; stop it, I didn't contingency times. It seems to me that today is a day that should require patience from everyone. We're facing a political crisis. I don't know if you've figured it out. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Then stop it! Mr Marcucci (PD). Let's stick to the rules! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am not quoting the times: I do not contingent them with Minister Salvini, as well as with anyone, as I have always done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this in particular to the Democratic Party: for you too there will be all the times you have requested. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Please, Minister Salvini, finish. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u17	Thank you, President. I was saying that the cases - and only those who have been on the phone these days and weeks to deal - are two: or there is already an agreement to move forward, simply changing the jacket week by week, that is: I ruled with the League until last week and government with the PD next week, depending on the fall-winter season. If there's already a deal... [[Live comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] But to be dangerous authoritarians, it's hard to be a dangerous authoritarian! Can I finish, humbly? There are two cases: if there is an agreement of power and partition, already done, between 5 Stars and Democratic Party, which would be lawful, tell the Italians and explain to them what you intend to do in the next three years. In my opinion, it is disrespectful of the will of the Italian people, which seems clear to me for two years now. But in politics - for Christ's sake - we have all seen them; just say it. If that is not the case, and instead there is a desire to build and finish a virtuous path, because I read that someone wants to cut Members off, block the increase in taxes and then go straight to the vote, I said it last week and I repeat it again in this House. The main way is that of elections, because nothing and no one better than the Italian people will be able to judge who has worked well and who has worked badly; this is the main way. If you want, we are there: we are not afraid to go on and finish the path. We are not the Renzi in charge, who voted against until yesterday and is willing to vote in favour today to keep the chair. You want to cut off the MPs and then go vote? Here we are: we cut the Members of Parliament and then give the Italian people the floor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here we go. If you want to put in a courageous economic maneuver to block increases - and not only - and reduce taxes to 10 million Italians, we are there.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u18	Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u19	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'll finish. John Paul II... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You will quote Saviano and I quote St. John Paul II. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Can anyone be free to quote and refer to the life, works and miracles of those who believe the best? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Council, I say this to you with the utmost serenity and - I repeat - by free men and women who are not afraid to ask the Italian people for confirmation of their good work, because I am convinced that this confirmation would be there. St. John Paul II said and wrote - and it seems written today - that trust is not achieved by declarations alone or by force; trust must be deserved by concrete gestures and facts. If you want to complete the process of reform that we have begun, we are there: we cut off the Members and then we are going to vote. That's it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Live comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Malpezzi]] If instead you want to govern with Renzi, Boschi and Lotti, wish you well and explain it to the Italians. We're not gonna make a bunch of 'em. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group stand up and display signs]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u20	The signs are off. Senators Quaestors, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u21	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Long live freedom and live democracy in this country! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thank you very much to you and my children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u22	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the floor, if you will, for twenty minutes, in accordance with Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u23	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President Salvini, it would be very easy to see the spectacle today with a smile, but the situation in the country imposes a surplus of responsibility on everyone. [[Illarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You are resigning today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The government you proudly defined in these fourteen populist months has failed. The whole of Europe looks at us and tells us that the populist experiment works very well in the electoral campaign, but it works a little less well when it comes to governing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I remember your faces, friends of the government, when you were in TV shows saying that with this opposition you would rule thirty years. You ruled, not very well indeed, for fourteen months. In greeting you and thanking you without irony for the service you have carried out, and in wishing us to turn the page soon, I remember with a smile to the Undersecretary Giorgetti, to whom I acknowledge the honour of arms, which she distributed, on the first day of the meeting of Ministers, a picture of myself, smiling and saying that you would not end Renzi. If I look at Istat's data, I say it's true: you didn't end up with us. We took a country that had a GDP of at least 2% and left it with a more 1.7%, also thanks to the work of President Gentiloni Silveri. We took a country with industrial production that had a negative sign and left it with a positive sign. The tax burden with us has been reduced by two points, but we are proud that you have avoided the infringement procedure through our e-invoicing law. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, you have served the country, but your economic performance is a failure. You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Tell us about the banks! RENZI (PD). However, this is not the greatest defeat. Nor is it the one on which the President-in-Office of the Council has expressed himself today in an impeccable way, namely the reflection on institutional culture. We appreciated his words on institutional style. We would have liked these words to have been spoken earlier, over the course of these fourteen months. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It did not take a particular institutional lucidity to realize that Minister Salvini's style is the style that characterized him also in the electoral campaign. But let us say to you, Mr President-in-Office, that, when you post with a letter to Mr Salvini on 15 August, that letter, that post finds our full conviction. The signature on that post we share, the signature on the security decree doesn't. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It was a wound to the country. However, the fundamental point to be discussed in my view is not the economy and it is not the institutional culture. The fundamental point is that in this country an atmosphere of hatred has been created, also the result of our language, the language of politics. How can you not be surprised when a black boy cannot enter a beach in the North East, even though he has his passport, no, the identity card of an Italian citizen, because of the climate that has been created in recent months? [[Applause from the PD Group]] How can you not feel the emotion in front of a mother of an adopted child who says: for a few months I have seen a different climate in schools, because my son, who is black, is not considered as before? [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These are scenes that went well in the Alabama of the fifties, not in Italy of 2020 [[Applause from the PD Group]] And we didn't create this climate of hatred! Minister Salvini, I respect your religious faith. It is a faith that I feel I share, although using totally different tones. I remind her, between one reading and another, to give an occasional eye to chapter 25 of the Gospel, obviously according to Matthew, to verses 42 and 43 when she says: I was cold and you welcomed me, I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you quenched my thirst. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If you believe in those values, make people land who are still standing still now, hostage to a shameful policy! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of changing not only the policies you have carried out so far, but also of taking note that the crisis which you have opened here today and which clearly makes you smile, risks bringing the country, for the first time in seventy-three years, to an autumn vote. And if there has never been, there will be a reason, because in the Italian tradition (and those who know constitutional and parliamentary law know that this has a value) never voted in the autumn. There is a need to avoid the increase in VAT and an executive needs not because some of us want to go back to the government. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] but because the increase in VAT would lead to a consumer crisis, which only the irresponsibility of personal ambition can fail to see. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's not a coup d'état to change the government; it's a coup d'état to open a crisis right now. This is Parliament, Minister Salvini, it is not the Papeete! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You must have respect for the situation in the country! Someone in this House says that we fear for the chair, so I invite Senator Salvini to turn to his right, as he is doing, and to look at Senator Bagnai, who in Florence in the past elections showed up against me, supported also by Forza Italia and Brothers of Italy, and he did a whole campaign to say no to the euro and when we lost the elections (because we lost them) he managed to lose his seat anyway. We are not afraid to challenge you in Florence, in Milan, in the seat of Bibbiano, in the seat of Arezzo! I challenge you wherever you want, Minister Salvini, but you don't play on the Italians, because at risk right now there are Italian families. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Tomorrow too! RENZI (PD). After twenty-six years of honored service in the institutions (because Salvini today said that he is a public employee - think - for twenty-six years), in this Chamber you, Mr Salvini, point to the second place: the first - I say it with a joke - is out of your possibility, because Senator Casini, unbearable, cannot be achieved. However, Minister Salvini, who has been paid by the taxpayer for twenty-six years, may have learned that there is the right to explain how things work, that there is the Constitution, that there are manuals of parliamentary law; then don't tell who lost the elections. You made a government with 17%, not 51% [[Applause from the PD Group]] and this Executive has failed even for its responsibility and first admit it before we can open a new page! There are two open issues which need to be dealt with immediately: the first concerns the League, the second the 5 Stars. Minister Salvini, you can win your challenge and lead to the vote of the country and if this happens, it would be with the agreement - I do not say connivance - of an important part of our side; we will see if you will be able to do so, to get those full powers, maybe to get out of the euro or to enter the ruble (we will see what can happen). However, what you will be able to do, Mr Salvini, is perhaps to take the country to vote next autumn. Or you will lose and if that happens - I tell you from personal experience - you will see that so many of those who in these fourteen months have sanctified you, have applauded you, encouraged you, will disappear: it is the Italian human character. Don't tell me I've been there. I know what that means. Don't worry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The point, however, is another: in both cases, Mr Salvini, make clear the story of relations with Russia. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pellegrini Marco]] It's in his interest, not in ours! [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is Mr Savoini's question, because there cannot be a Western democracy in which there is a suspicion of the greatest bribe ever required by people who worked with you. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] One thing I say to the Five Star Movement before I close. I do not know whether, in the name of responsibility, we will vote for the same government in the future. I am sure that, if this happens, I will not be a proud member of this Government. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is, however, something I would like you to take from the speech of President Conte, whose sincerity I have no reason to doubt. Learn, always, that, behind personal aggression, insult and hatred that are often unleashed on social media, the consequences are, not political opponents, but the most loved ones, families, people whose dignity you have not respected. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, I am here to say that, before legitimate ambitions, before legitimate resentment, before revenge, the country's interest comes. I served this country as President of the Council. I had the honor and burden of meeting tens, hundreds of people. I know that a recession is coming in this part of the West, which is very worrying; I know that German industrial production which collapses, as the Bundesbank says, does not make me feel satisfied because at least Merkel suffers, as some populists think. The collapse of that industrial production means that in yours, ours, North-East in the coming months will be trouble for everyone. I know that there is a huge duty problem between the United States and China. I know that what is about to happen in Europe, if Italy does not show up at the table, risks cutting us off permanently. Faced with this, for me, the institutions come first and then personal resentment comes! [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this spirit, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are happy today that the populist experience will end, but we will make our contribution because it is not the families and it is not the consumers who are paying for your wretched crisis! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u24	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have fulfilled your institutional duty to report to Parliament. I take note of that, and we take note of it, with pleasure. However, I must also tell you that a whole part of your report, in relation to the fact or the occurrence of the last fifteen months, is a little late. Because the disassociations posthumously from a minister that have been covered up, until yesterday, every choice, every act, every decree and every behavior seems to me a little 'too comfortable. In my parliamentary experience there was hardly a government from which I felt so foreign. The two forces that have expressed the current Executive are and have been the manifestations of the same hostility to the rules of liberal democracy and the rule of law. They may have thought differently, but they acted identically, solidly and in solidarity. That's why I'm telling you that posthumous disassociations aren't very convincing. As far as I can count, I think that we must all continue to fight for an alternative to the policies pursued so far in the name of the values you have trampled on: those of the European Union, economic and civil freedoms, multilateralism, international integration and Italy, fiscal responsibility, intergenerational fairness, environmental sustainability and respect for fundamental human rights. His letter on migrants was also late and posthumous. However, someone must prepare to make another one, since another ship is arriving with 356 desperate on board. However, after fourteen months of supportive government, we do not have a country that is either richer, safer, more just or more dynamic. It's all the other way around. We have a country that is not affected by frustration and impotence, which some continue to exacerbate, accusing the Union, international markets, migrants and all of them of conspiring against the prosperity of Italy. It is now up to the President of the Republic to examine whether a new Executive is possible. However, if all governments with a parliamentary majority are equally legitimate, they are not equally acceptable. It also seems to me that this sudden deference to President Mattarella conceals something that, in plain English, says: we have made a big mess in these fifteen months, in recent weeks we do not talk about it; President, we don't know how to get out of this. You help us. This is what is happening, in plain language. I think, however, that a new Executive which was based on yet another tribute to anti-parliamentary rhetoric, including the final approval of the cut by Members, outside of any constitutional rebalancing plan, is not acceptable. It is acceptable for a Government to propose to implement the yellow part of the ex-majority programme as if purified by the Legist proposals, this program could suddenly become acceptable even to those who have never shared it. What is certain is that the Government of Demagogy has arrived at the end of the line. I hope that in this legislature there will not be another of the same nature and the same sign that instead of Papeete, it will rule by Bora Bora. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u26	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u27	Mr President, I have listened very carefully and with interest to the previous speeches by the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior. I have heard a request for respect for the Constitution and the institutions. Let me first of all ask for respect for our intelligences which, however modest, exist. Let me ask all the actors of this strange affair for the sense of responsibility to say bread and wine to wine. It is quite clear - even a child understands this - that the party of those who fear the vote has been created in this Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Pisani Pietro.]] It is quite clear that there is no argument that can hide what unites today, as we have seen in several applauses, the Movimento 5 Stars, the Democratic Party and the extreme left, which is nothing more than the terror of the electoral response. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Dear President, you have noticed with many months of delay that those who were sitting next to you were incapable, irresponsible, vacationer, disrespectful of Parliament, enemy of the Constitution, irrational to the Ministers, irrational to the people, deserter of the truth about Russiagate, authoritarian - you did not say fascist, you spared it, but almost - usurper of religious symbols, electoral opportunist and animated by personal gain. I have rarely heard, in one intervention, so many accusations of one person, with whom you shared the government until the day before. Then you could have noticed, my friend! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You could have, and you should've noticed. Either you lied before, or you lie now. You said you can work well without social media and I agree with you. But the President-in-Office of the Council cannot be done well without the people's consent and the votes of the people. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] For this reason, we of Brothers of Italy have always hoped for something. A reform is not enough to reduce the number of MPs, but we have also voted firmly (and we were not forced to do so because we were not in the government). I repeat, that's not enough. It is necessary to give serious institutions to Italy. I have not heard you say anything about the possibility, which 80% of Italians want, of a presidential Republic in which citizens choose the President of the Council, not the agreement not to go to vote. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I don't have to insist much on this. It is clear that the dispute between the President of the Council and Salvini is all in the diversity of assessment of the relationship between the Government and the voters. Someone, at least today, chooses to give the floor to the voters, while others do not want to give it to them. Among the many accusations you made to Salvini, you forgot the only one I could share (because one I would have shared): that of having delayed too long to open a crisis that, at least after the European elections, would have been the logical consequence of a changed relationship of strength in the electoral body. You didn't make that accusation. In the same way, no one remembers - or pretends not to remember - that except us of Brothers of Italy and perhaps - I must admit - Free and Equal, none of the others opposed the electoral law that led to this reproach, wanted by those who hoped for an ungovernability perhaps in order to govern, according to different calculations, by necessity and not by choice of voters. Well, I would have shared these criticisms, but you didn't. So Renzi didn't do it. Unlike many of my party colleagues, I have no personal dislike for Renzi. In fact, I have always had a pleasant relationship with the former President of the Council. But when I hear Matthew Renzi say that he overcomes the offenses brought mainly by the Movimento 5 Stars (also by others, but mainly by the Movimento 5 Stars, right Renzi?) addressed to him and his family (which I have never joined so I can speak out loud) in the name of the good of the country (I do not say of the nation, because it is a term that does not use), I do not believe it. In fact, this figure comes at a time when, if we were to vote, we would then return to a completely different House from the present one. The mountain of applause of the triggers would be at least halved and the MPs of the PD would perhaps also be someone more, but they would respond less to Renzi and more to other logics. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Then tell the truth and respect our intelligence. It is logical and legitimate, but it is not lawful to lie and make fun of us. It is for this reason that we, like Giorgia Meloni consistently has always affirmed on every occasion - strong of the fact of being monogamous and of never being together neither the PD nor the Movimento 5 Stars and strong of our coherence, that the Meloni has always emphasized - we think that the only way is to go to vote. We do not say this from today, because the Government cannot be a Government of contract, it cannot be a do ut des: I have not heard this criticism. The government must be the son of a cohesive programme and of a common vision of politics, at least in the generality of positions, it must be the son of a project that is born before and not out of necessity and you want to do another, worse than what is falling at this time, perhaps. That's why I tell Matteo Salvini - he will excuse me if a criticism of me moves it - that wandering is human, but persevering is diabolical. I understand the dialectic opportunity to say: if you want, I dare you to continue on my terms. Attention, however, that with dialectic you can cheat. Not even for dialectical reasons, not even to leave the cerino to someone else, I would never want to hear Legist friends say: I am ready to continue a government with the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We would never be there, however we want to call it: institutional, bathing or baby Jesus. In this regard, I was truly surprised, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - I ask your attention - by the criticism of religious signs. See that among those who applauded that passage, there is someone who was elected with parties that had the cross in the electoral symbol. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The cross in the electoral symbol! And no one has ever been scandalized, perhaps rightly so. There's some there. So, you can't wear it around your neck, but you can put it in the ballot! We are ridiculous and we are, in one word, at the final comedians. I hope that they will be truly final and that the voice will return to the Italians, to the voters, who will be able to do justice to this filthy act. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u28	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all of us, like the Members who have spoken and who have spoken before me, have listened very carefully to your communications, not least because these days a certain pathos has been created on this matter. You are here today to report to Parliament and we are deeply grateful for this. It is a manifestation of respect and attention, it is an institutional guarantee of the Government's ability to understand the separation of powers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but we were also there last week, ready to do exactly what we are doing now. Where were you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? I mentioned some elements of his speech, which at times recall the title of a movie: We were so loved. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You did not address us today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but you supported, in tones that are also very passionate - and that is understandable, given your role - a government that we consider to be bankrupt and, with equally passionate tones, wandered on the hands of your Minister of the Interior. Your business, we might say, but no: unfortunately they were made of this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I respect you deeply, as President-in-Office of the Council - and as an institution of the Republic - but as a colleague, forgive me if, quite frankly, I wonder, in this last year of government, where were you: in Palazzo Chigi or on the moon? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] He has proclaimed and manifested a cahier de doléances, a series and a sequence of complaints even quite intense, that went from the difficulty of relating to a person who does not make sense of the institutions until the display of religious symbols: has all this happened in the last week? Do you want us to believe that this problem within your government has only manifested itself in the last week? Believe me, these are not idle words that I say to you: I absolutely agree with you, as well as with all those who have said so in this House, that we cannot afford the provisional exercise. We cannot afford to increase that VAT which you - I stress this and I repeat this - have included in the budget law, despite our amendments in the opposite direction. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We are deeply convinced that all this must be avoided, as well as the linear cuts and tax increases which unfortunately, once again, are already provided for in that budget law which you have prepared and to which we have tabled amendments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] But do you not think, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that all the time you have wasted in this surreal summer crisis, in the sunset, has further compromised the Italians' ability to be protected by this Parliament, as it should be? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the quickest and most effective way to solve the problems you have raised is to go to the vote as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You had several opportunities to resign and even recently - in June, if I'm not mistaken on the 3rd - you had a very fair surge of dignity, when, in front of two Vice Premier who did nothing but fight, you said that, if they continued, you could do nothing but resign. I have appreciated this and found it very dignified, and in line with its professional and human standing, but your words have evaporated in the sun, Mr President-in-Office, because you have not, at least on two other occasions that have resonated in this House. For example, he did not do so at the time of Russiagate, where a part of the House that today applauded him frantically was absent, which in a normal world and in a normal policy means a government crisis: if his majority abandons it in the Chamber, perhaps Houston, we have a problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And above all, he did not do so in the case of the motions on the TAV, on which, as you know, the Government even divided itself, expressing two different positions. I have the feeling that even in his speech there is more speaking-government technique and the pleasure of the person ferryed in politics, who has discovered how beautiful it is to be in the room of buttons, than real interest in the country: as I have told you, in fact, on at least three occasions - and perhaps even more - he could have resigned and stopped this activity that you yourself, while saying otherwise than the program, reported as failure in your relationship with one of your Vice Premier. Remembering what my previous colleagues have also said, I believe that in the face of international exchanges that fibrillate, the crisis in tariffs between Beijing and the United States, the recession in the eurozone, as well as in Germany and the United Kingdom (which are pains for us, because they represent a constant exchange for our businesses, our trade, our services and our craftsmen); in the face of all this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must not make technical and bureaucratic traps, we must only do so quickly. We know how to get out of the experience of a government that unfortunately reminds you that they do not belong to it. You told a beautiful government today in a beautiful year, which unfortunately at this time marks zero growth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Now we are talking about preventing the increase in VAT, but there is an additional tax that the Italians are already paying: to have wasted time and this is a very salty account, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Believe me, not only do you leave a country tired and indefatigable - as has already been said - from the political, economic and social point of view, but leave a country that no longer believes in politics, a country that now needs only liberal recipes, that liberal agenda that we know how to produce and that we have proposed for years making the country grow. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Senator Renzi has told how his Government has made Italy grow, but never like our governments, who have had the ability to produce work, to free growth, to make the economy run, which has now stopped. We need a new and liberal agenda in the economy, able to give Italians tax compensation, cutting the cost of labour for companies aimed at increasing the wages of workers. That is what the Italians are asking not only for our electors, but also for us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Here it is not election or political party the word that we must say, but it is the interest of the country. We are here to protect the interests of Italians, of the country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you did not address the Italians: you first addressed the partner of your previous Government; as if you were a public wife you addressed the green husband and then addressed the red husband; but this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is not the way in which the interests of the Italians are protected, this is not the way in which the country is shown to have understood its needs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We need to tell Italy that we have understood what it deserves, the only antidote to the fall of the crisis is political stability that comes only from new elections. I have a feeling that your way of listing arguments is an advance consultation and government program for a Count bis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You were not addressing the whole House, you were not addressing the Italians, you were not addressing the country: you were only addressing a part of the House that was supposed to receive messages. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after signing the security decree and sharing the decision to close the ports, you wrote a letter in which you said that the ports would no longer ask for them. He's rediscovered a humanitarian vein. Is it not a suggestion to propose to a future left-left Conte bis Government, which you are trying to create in this House despite the Italians, despite their vote, despite their will? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In short, the story is too long, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because you wanted it long, because you wanted to waste time, because you wanted to change dance partners in running, you wanted to move from the green partner to the red partner, but you want to stay where you are, loving your desire to stay where you are with the general interest of the country, but we have already shown by tabulas that the interest of the country is being done quickly, going to the vote and making a budget law worthy of this name, not the law that is recessive, poor and destructive to which you have submitted the country, leaving it to zero growth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have grasped your suggestion and also your invitation not to insult us. For God's sake, we never did. But I am from Bologna, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and you will be wondering what that means. I remember when in Piazza Santo Stefano was born the political movement that produced it howling to Italy and the world a word that I can not repeat and that begins by "vaffa". [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, remember your origins before giving stylish lessons, which I agree with. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Having said that, in order to preserve not only a stylistic aplomb but also a constitutional correctness, we are sure that at this moment you are already ready to go to the Colle to resign in the capable, authoritative and competent hands of the President of the Republic this crisis that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have really opened up too late on the part of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u31	Mr President, President Conte, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing this debate today because Senator Salvini, incredibly still Minister (because the power is stronger than dignity), has declared the experience of government ended, then bitterly regretted it as soon as he realized that he perhaps has full powers at Papeete, but not in Parliament. It is really pathetic to read of phones always on, as if it were the teenage crisis of a summer love and not of the government of our country. Today I even heard Salvini beg the 5 Stars with the famous refrain of the singer Pappalardo: "Let's start again, let's start again." All in order not to leave the place, the chair of the Viminale. The strong man has ensnared himself in the fort: pathetic. Despite everything, I cannot hide the relief, President Conte, for the end of the government you presided over. Beyond personal consideration for his calm and reasonable style, and the thanks I would like to publicly acknowledge for having kept firm the will to come to this House to face in a transparent way this delicate passage, in these months the government's action has had only one great dominus. On the basis of the continuous compromise with the Legist demands, you have - alas - allowed too many tears to be made to the institutions, to the Constitution, to the democratic confrontation, to the same civil fabric of the country. A few days ago we were in this House and you put your trust in the security decree- bis, whose rejection came earlier than we thought: not yet by the Constitutional Court, as we can predict, but by the administrative court of Lazio. You see, even to be as bad as Minister Salvini it is necessary to be prepared, competent and intelligent. Today I repeat in his presence what I said on August 6: but do you not notice that the souls are too agitated? The style of the zingaracce, of the blacks, as such even if Italian citizens, of attacks on journalists, critics and opponents has led our community beyond the brink of a crisis of nerves. It is a continuous election campaign and the more irresponsible it can be in this situation. There's something else you need. We need to sew up the broken edges of our society. There is a need to relaunch the South, from which 2 million people have fled in recent years. We need to start again from work, from education, from health, from the relationship with the unions, with the entrepreneurs, with the artisans and with VAT matches, to give back momentum to a firm economy. We need to tackle the climate emergency and launch an investment plan for the green economy. We need to go back to talking about security, but not promising weapons in the hands of citizens and revenge, but justice and certainty of penalties. We need to return to international tables, especially European ones, not through direct Facebook, but with useful and reasonable proposals, with a collaborative spirit. There is a need for an effective fight against tax evasion, organised crime, and the length of trials. We need to close the season of selfies and proclamations on the beaches, the claim of full powers, hatred, indifference. In short, we need to rewrite the country's agenda, looking at the real problems and not hiding them behind alleged emergencies. There is a need to return to politics, stopping the beasts that on social networks raise citizens against each other: a massacre in which no one bitterly wins. Just a year and a half ago the voters spoke. We have politically opposed the yellow-green government, born of an agreement between the first parliamentary force and the third, but never - I say never - have we considered it a scam against the citizens. It is our parliamentary democracy. It is then legitimate and fair for this Parliament itself to explore every possibility from now on, not out of hunger for power or fear of democracy, but precisely to be and remain up to our Constitution, the work of the constituent fathers and mothers. I say this without infinity and with the same clarity, as a man who has served these institutions all his life: Italy does not need an agreement, an executive with a short breath, dominated by tactics and electoral positionings. If this Parliament, on the other hand, were to create a government ready to overturn the current agenda and to work seriously in the interests of everyone, then we would not only have the right to reason, but the historical duty to try, not to spare any attempt to change the sign of these times for real. Only in this case would I give that government my personal, convinced and proud vote of confidence. To reason on this scenario, however, an unavoidable passage is necessary. President Conte, go up to the Quirinale and do not wait any longer, as you have already predicted. Put your warrant back in the wise hands of the Head of State. This majority, this mayonnaise crazy yellow-green, this tangle of statements in which you say everything and the opposite of everything does not deserve to remain at the head of the country a minute longer. You failed. Take note of that. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Valente]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u32	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u33	Colleagues, I am sorry that the novel "Pulzello d'Orléans," that is, the Minister of the Interior, is not present, because in my opinion, even as a believer, what he has said offends the sensitivity of many. In relation to what the President of the Council has said about the use of religious symbols, this country has a long history of debate and reflection, so many of us have learned that the secularity of the State is an indisputable value, on which, above all, the political man must be very, very prudent. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nencini]] I would like to reiterate this point because Matteo Salvini, after the 8th of August he made known urbi et orbi, giving in practice the blessing (but not from St. Peter, but from Papeete Beach), who had to interrupt the experience of government, then started a tour (not a pilgrimage, but a tour) for which he also came to Calabria, passing through Isola Capo Rizzuto and Soverato, meeting citizens, being challenged by citizens (it is in the rules of the game), but above all by publicly flaunting the rosary. In the land of Calabria - and in this case I must speak as President of the Anti-Mafia Commission - flaunt the rosary, vote to the Madonna where there is the sanctuary where the 'ndrangheta has decided to surrender, the sanctuary of the Madonna of Polsi [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mirabelli),]] It means sending coded messages to certain forces which, above all, men of state, especially the Ministers of the Interior, must fight and not favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But surely it was out of ignorance, not out of intention. In fact, I would like to grant, by recovering what Minister Salvini said (I do not know whether he resigned or not), that there are 60 million innocent people in Italy until proven otherwise; so he did, but he did not know what he had done and therefore: Father forgive him because he didn't know what he was doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Personally, one thing I feel I challenge to the Interior Minister Salvini, if he is still Minister. On Christmas Day, this country was marred by a murder in Pesaro. Bruzzese, belonging to a family that had a difficult past, a family of 'ndrangheta, was killed. Just a few days before, that is, on 23 December, I had informally sent signals and messages to the Minister of the Interior to organize, as is necessary, a hearing with him, in order to reason with the owner of the action of contrast to the mafias in order to understand how Parliament, that is the bicameral anti-mafia Commission, and the Government, that is the Minister of the Interior, wanted to implement a firm, committed, to say enough with a phenomenon that is unfortunately (perhaps for some not unfortunately) taking hold in many parts of the country. I also take responsibility for what I'm saying. I have asked the Minister of the Interior by formal and informal means, by e-mail and in other ways, also politely asking colleagues from the League, who have always been available to the Commission, to be their bearers of the message. The message was delivered and had no response. This is called institutional unfairness and I also add lack of education. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As well as institutions, we are people. On 7 August - and this is something I would like to share with the House - having the opportunity to speak with the Minister of the Interior without being seen by others nearby (I am pointing out exactly where the House is), I asked him when he would be going to be seen in the Commission. The Minister said something like this: but I don't have to answer any questions. I am the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Members of this Parliament have every right to ask as many questions as they like. If these are matters which are not relevant or concern the world of 416- bis, I will protect the figure of the Minister, just as it is my duty to protect all the institutional figures who must agree here, and not just them. But you have the duty, the right, I add, to come here and say what you're going to do and what you've put in place so far to fight mafia, camorra, 'ndrangheta, exactly as he writes on his social media. Beware that Minister Salvini touched my shoulders with the palm of his hands, wanted to hold me to him and told me: don't worry, I will come, I will come as soon as possible. I too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have felt, not as far as Nicola Morra is concerned, but as far as Parliament is concerned, the Italian people who are represented by Parliament, taken by the nose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or, if you like, since I have a terminology that is more appropriate to certain language registers: taken for the bottoms. And a Minister of the Republic cannot take the House, the Italian citizens and the Parliament itself as its backs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am sorry that Mr Salvini is not here, because I would have liked to have reasoned with him about some passages. He was afraid to come to the Commission because he has no idea what serious action is to counter, including through regulatory action, the mafias. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] She writes to me, because these are the messages she sends on social media, that mafias fight each other by fighting drug dealing and fighting the exploitation of prostitution. Period. That's all it was. Perhaps someone has taught us that the mafias have, over time, been endowed with very refined minds. Maybe I'm not up to it, but because these very refined minds are a little higher. [[Comments by Senator De Vecchis.]] Now the mafias are using the blockchain. They use cryptocurrencies. They have become, in particular the 'ndrangheta, monopolists of the cocaine market, who manage to pay through impeccable and very modern financial instruments. But you, Matteo Salvini, can't even understand how fundamental it is to intervene on bankruptcy law, corporate law, banking law to intervene and to prevent crimes that are committed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In fact, for invoicings for non-existent transactions we still have legislation that does not have criminal importance and imposes only administrative sanctions. Therefore, FOIs are reported only and only by notaries and very little by credit institutions. So much, with a penalty of 250 euros, everything is silenced. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The mafias are also fighting with the will to say to the face what needs to be changed, coming also to the Commission and having the humility to be criticized, because it is right to allow everyone to say their own. This is democracy, while it is not democracy to lack listening, because politics also means confrontation, and the confrontation is always biunivoc! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And do not ask for full powers, because sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits provided for in the Constitution. So you should remember... VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Vote! Vote now! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr. President, shut him up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, I invite you to conclude. MORRA (M5S). I would remind the House that the Italian people were able, a few decades ago, to give birth to a Constitutional Charter that convinced everyone. [[Senator Ripamonti's comments.]] And now if anyone doesn't want to stick to that Constitutional Charter anymore, obviously that someone has forgotten what the values of freedom and democracy are. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for coming here, you told Parliament, having it discussed this crisis; the good ones would say that you have parliamentaryized the crisis. We believe that this was not something taken for granted at a time when politics would like to be exhausted, as we have heard today, in a relationship between leaders, or captains, and the people, by reducing the guarantee institutions and Parliament itself to unnecessary burdens. That is why his choice has been important; he recognizes, gives value to Parliament and re-establishes a principle that has been called into question several times in recent months: the principle that there is a democracy that has institutions that must all be respected and the issue of the direct relationship between the head and the people does not work. You restore a founding principle of liberal democracies. I would like to say to you right away, Mr President, that we thank you for that. You have led a government which, in our opinion, has been harmful to the country. In the months of your government, the country has become poorer - data say it - more unequal, more divided and more angry. This is what has been sown. The economic data is before everyone's eyes. The country is still and risks, with the situation that some economists predict, to plunge back into the nightmare of the post-2008 crisis. There are hundreds of unsolved industrial and business crises, a billion hours less worked and, beyond chatter, tax pressure has increased. You have charged 100 to pensioners and those in need of services. The differences between North and South have increased, but also the North, also Lombardy, for the first time in years, marks the step on industrial production, on the confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs. The country is weaker and poorer than you have found it, and this is a collective responsibility, but above all yours, President, because you led this government. Not only that; I listened carefully to what Senator Morra said now, but I cannot forget the fact that this Government has brought us back on the issue of legality. It has reduced the controls, has lowered the barriers of verification of legality, has passed the idea - which I admit is not his - that it is possible to trade legality with consent, to think of a system in which there is less legality to do more business. It is not the opposition's preliminary attacks that say so, but the at least nine condons you have made in one and a half years. The unblocking of construction sites has reopened spaces for evil, corruption and organised crime, making old practices possible and transforming into law the possibility for extraordinary commissioners to act as a derogation from the rules, even in the absence of any reason for emergency. The whole government has a responsibility for this too. And again, President - and here I come to the topicality - you have not done any policy of governing immigration. With the first security decree the integration network has been dismantled, abandoning to themselves thousands of immigrants who are legally on this territory. There has been no return policy, on the contrary, voluntary policies have become more difficult. There was no decree flowing (on the other hand there was no more emergency). Why didn't he do it? All she's done is a vicious, inhuman propaganda campaign. We then adopted the security decree- bis to punish those who save people at sea and who indicates in non-governmental organizations and not in traffickers the enemy to be hit. There's been a permanent election campaign on people's faces. It's a shame what's going on these days. It is a shame that 100 people remain on a ship that could safely be landed and distributed in the countries where it was decided. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But this is not done, because one is allowed not to do so. There are other ships, full of people saved at sea, who do not know what prospects they have, because we say no, because Salvini says no, because Count says no: they must not land. I think this is inhumane. You want to show that you can't get here, but every day the chronicles tell us that dozens of people arrive on the coasts without any contrast. The important thing, however, is to campaign against those desperate who are on ships of non-governmental organizations or even the Coast Guard. The country needs a government that is not this. We need a government that solves the problems and doesn't shake them. Whether this happens before or after the elections we will see it, but surely we need a government that starts from the issues of school, work and the environment, that unites and does not divide the country, that creates coexistence and not opposition or anger, otherwise we risk not having a future. This government was none of this, it wasn't up to it. On the other hand, it cannot be any government with Matteo Salvini who occupies the Ministry of the Interior to make a permanent election campaign and humiliates the institutions not coming here to explain the things we ask him about Russiagate, or not coming here or in the Anti-Mafia Commission to explain what policies he is doing against the Mafia and how he responds on other cases that have involved his party. Matteo Salvini came here only in one case, only once, to ask for parliamentary immunity to avoid being tried on the case of the Diciotti ship. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This country needs not captains, but people who know how to rule and who do not use problems to campaign, but try to solve them. Unfortunately, your government has been very much this: an agitation of problems and a continuous opposition. For this reason, we have been to the opposition, looking at the interest of the country, and today we are happy with the end of this Government. I repeat, we are pleased with the end of this government. For the future, it will always be the interest of the country to guide us. Make sure of that. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u36	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u37	Mr President, I am sorry that Senator Salvini is not here, so I would like to speak to you, because I told Senator Salvini that I judged his speech today in this House very modest. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, it seemed obvious to me Salvini's difficulties in finding the right arguments to support his position. I would also like to make two substantive comments. First, I want to remind him of a popular saying, which I consider very wise, which says: joke with the footmen, but leave the saints alone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It has a profound meaning: brandishing religion in Parliament for its political usefulness is, in fact, a sacrilegious act. That is why I ask him to let go of religion and crucifixes when he makes politics. The second question I would like to highlight to Senator Salvini is a serious one. I'd like President Alberti Casellati to remember her, as I remember her. Salvini said that in this Senate there are free senators and senators who are not free. I say to you, Mr Casellati, with the respect you know I have towards you, that I would have liked you to react to this sentence. [[Applause from the PD Group]] FADELI (PD). Bravo! ZANDA (PD). In this Senate, all senators are free. There was also vulgarity in saying Salvini, because for Salvini are free senators only those who, like him, demand elections tomorrow morning, that is his senators, the Senators of the League. According to him, these are the free senators, while all the other senators, who wonder about the future and who do not yet have a position on the future, according to Salvini are not free. I believe that this is a very dangerous conception of freedom. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to remind Senator Salvini, who talks about elections every two minutes, that our Constitution provides for elections every five years, while the elections that interrupt the legislature are decided exclusively by the President of the Republic. Therefore, the senators who want the Constitution to be respected and the President of the Republic, and not Salvini, to decide whether the legislature should be interrupted or not, are free senators. [[Applause from the PD Group]] His senators, who obey his direction, are not free. I now address two comments to the President-in-Office of the Council, who has made a political speech and therefore deserves a political response. I must tell him first of all that I consider the resignation of his Government to be very good news for our country and I also think that the last few weeks have represented, in a very effective way, the tragedy in which the Government Count led Italy. It is a tragedy that comes from the origin of the government, that is, from two political forces that had fought in the electoral campaign and have joined together to govern and have done so, Mr. Conte, by an act that I consider unconstitutional. The contract is a civil institution and has nothing to do with our legal system, which does not foresee it. Making a government on the basis of a contract and recalling it daily is a rubble to our Constitution and is certainly a rubble to all the Italian constitutional practice. A short time ago, at the beginning of this sitting, the applause of the League, when it entered the Salvini Hall, and those of the Movimento 5 Stars, when it entered Count, gave plastically the image of the deep division that was in the Government that ruled Italy for fourteen months. It is not we, President Conte, who have to judge what your Government has represented for Italy. This judgment will give it history, which will record in a timely way how the Count Government has reduced Italy from the point of view of the management of its economy, its culture and its industrial, international and foreign policy. Senator Renzi was right earlier when he pointed out that the most serious damage our country has suffered was the serious social breakdown that has occurred in these fourteen months. Representatives of the Count Government have sown hatred and opposition in our country, trying in every way to prevent the consolidation of that social peace which according to them is an electoral obstacle for the two parties. Today President Conte defended the work of his Government, as he had to do, accusing Minister Salvini of personal interest for his conduct of the last days. I think you're right about that, President Conte, and that everything you've observed about Salvini's behavior is correct. Despite this, I think you have gone too far, because you are the President of the Council and Article 95 of the Constitution defines your role well: it is he who directs the general policy of the Government and has responsibility for it. So if you intervene in this way in Parliament, you can only talk to us about the responsibilities that you too have had in closing ports, in provocations towards Europe, in insults to the judiciary and the press and in your signature and all the majority of clearly unconstitutional decree-laws. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I therefore ask you for an answer, although I do not know if you will reply at the end of this debate or if this will end with the last speech, because you have to go up to Colle to resign. I ask you to tell us where you were when Salvini asked your majority to avoid the judgment of his natural judge: where were you? Why didn't you stop it? And where were you when Salvini refused to come to the Senate, asked to talk about the Moscow affair, which somehow involved him and his entire party? I see clearly the differences between the two parties that have led Italy and formed the Government in the last year. They are substantial political differences, and I know that populism is very different from the sovereignism of Orbán and Putin. I think Salvini went too far when he said he'd do everything he's done so far. However, the differences between the two parties, President Conte, cannot lead us to distinguish between the responsibilities of one another, because the Government did it together, as well as the damage you have done to Italy. The President of the Republic, after his resignation, President Conte, together with the political forces, will see how to resolve the crisis that opens today, either with the political elections or with another solution, with a new government. However, from your speech, Mr Conte, we have been reassured. Certainly we know that there will not be a re-edition of your Government with the same majority, with the same formation and with the same unconstitutional contract that has supported it so far. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u38	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u39	Mr President, Ministers, I address the President-in-Office of the Council. President Conte, I owe you a public apology, because from this microphone I had to make an accusation during a question time and you replied to me. I accused him of being - not really like that, but I do a synthesis having a few minutes at his disposal - a sort of puppet in the hands of two subjects holding the majority. I made a mistake. You have shown today, perhaps because of the inability of others, to honour the role of President of the Council and to fulfil your role as Head of Government with good repute and sense of the State. Having said that, Mr President, I must point out some issues that are not insignificant, because both you and other senators who have spoken of what we can now call the old majority that supported your government have spoken of an exceptional government, of ghostly measures, of wonderful issues that have pervaded the nation and brought it to the highest levels in Europe and the world. I give you a news: the citizens and businesses have not noticed, indeed the economic situation of the country is in great asphyxiation, the summer season that has just ended has recorded more families that have been at home than they have had the opportunity to enjoy perhaps one day, at most two days of vacation. The situation is worrying, thanks to your decree dignity to the unblocking yards, which has not unlocked anything, to the corrupt sweep that from 1 January, if we do not put our hands, will remove a moment of high justice that is that of the prescription, in the face of the inability of a State that is not able to conclude of the trials that last tens of years (who speaks to you knows for having personally tried it on his own skin), to the income of citizenship that convinces the people and the boys to stay more willingly at home instead of going to work and to your decree dignity, as I said before, that prevents the enterprises to assume without having the worry to transform that relationship of work into an even more important thing than a marriage, and to the decree simplification, that has blocked the activity of the public administration on the territory, that you obviously do not know, because not managed if not scattered Municipalities, but we that we have administrators, mayors and councilors well know the difficulties that every day have to face on their skin. Public works are blocked; his Minister of Infrastructure and Transport told us in the Commission at first, delaying more than others, of course, that he would devote himself to cycling and probably so, because there are still 600 public works blocked, nothing left and Italy is there watching while the others fly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It has been seven months since the European elections that the Government has not worked and frankly all this joy and enthusiasm have not been found. I must say, in the same way, that this Senate has worked, obviously without listening to us. I wanted to bring, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the thousands of amendments that we in the Forza Italia Group have brought to a debate in respect of the centre-right that you have always rejected, not only you (by now you are the only members of the 5 Star Movement in the benches of the Government) but also unfortunately the colleagues of the League, who have always voted against our measures, which are the programme of the centre-right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Forza Italia is the center-right - Berlusconi founded it, someone else slipped in later - and we want to stay. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are the things we care about. Frankly, I see a few of them, especially among the benches of Forza Italia, because we haven't had the holidays yet and those who talk to you probably don't. On the other hand, I have a trade that looks at tourism and consequently in summer, when others go to the sea, I obviously work. One last thing - and I conclude - to my colleague Renzi, who quoted the Gospel according to Matthew. Today I felt that I was more of an ecclesiastical function than in Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Allow me this: I would like to quote Jesus at this point - think where I came from - when he said to his apostles: "You will love your neighbor as yourself." But he didn't say at all to go pick them up with NGO boats in Libya and bring them to Italy at the expense of those who live in Italy, foreigners and Italians who respect the rules and bring their children to school. So, instead of quoting the Bible, the Gospel or catechism in general, to say that with the central-left government there have been five years of wonders I see it rather hard. I, who was a local administrator at that time, was left alone [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] to defend the borders of my territory from the invasion of buses and people who arrived with the dinghy without respect for the rules, when those who were already living in my city had neither to drink nor to eat nor to know where to live. So, gentlemen, you can't lecture us frankly. The fact that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, resign today is a due act and I respect you very much for the way in which you have finally presented this House with a truth that we at Forza Italia have already known for months. Last year, after the vote on 4 March, when we asked to go to vote on 22 July because there is no majority, since the center-right had won the elections but did not have the numbers in the Senate, this did not happen. And if today we are talking about inciucio and Accrocchio, what was done last year was far worse against the interests of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u40	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u41	Mr President, I greet and thank the President-in-Office of the Council and all my colleagues. The communications made by the President of the Count Council were certainly dignified, very dignified, but they cannot modify a clear necessity, that of dismissing the government he presided over and carrying out it quickly and without any regret, given how much in these disastrous fourteen months it has been done. The Government, in fact, without any distinction possible between the 5 Star and the League component, followed the line imposed by the Interior Minister Salvini, who so far had been told as a strong man of the company, since in reality it had never been seriously opposed neither by President Count (whose late, even appreciable in tones, open letter of Ferragosto to Salvini was significant), nor by the Movimento 5 Stars. This movement is largely majority in Parliament and in the Senate House and yet unable to impose its proposal on the partner of the League, which is clearly a minority in this House as well as in Montecitorio, but always able to "give the cards", as it were, continually threatening the crisis that finally came in a dull and very confused way. The Count Government must be archived in haste, having always worked towards the systematic demolition of the rule of law, compressing the parliamentary function and replacing the rule of law with a confused state of fear and prostration at all levels, including the administrative summits of the State. This confusion and prostration is the prelude to a police state and has caused the embarrassment of the common sense and the weakening of the same idea of solidarity, which is an indispensable element of the social coexistence of the country. In particular, Mr President-in-Office, I spoke to you about the security decrees when they began to take shape in October and November. She remembers it. I came to her office called back to her. These decree-laws constitute the figure, in particular the last one, which makes an unjustified war on NGOs, criminalizes those who help and, at the same time, severely affects the right to manifest, punishing - be careful - the opinion rather than the protest. I repeat: the opinion rather than the protest, the right to express its opinion, Minister Bonafede. Dissent thought and opinion are punished by this Government, as is punished dissent within the 5 Star Parliamentary Group, in the same way. There is no possibility of dialogue in the Group and towards the Government. The President of the Count Council has accepted, without turning a blind eye, the continuous confrontation carried out by Minister Salvini against all democratic institutions. Even the government has defended and endorsed (and only now disowns) the regime sadism perpetrated against the desperate of all ages, of every sex and origin. It has been shown to be insuffering towards any limit imposed by the right to referee and the violence of power. Even today we are debating - I see that many smile among the benches of the government, but there is little laughing, there is really little laughing - about this absurd crisis. We are faced with a Minister of the Interior who does not hesitate to violate the judicial measures of immediate application (the decree of the TAR of Lazio referred to the Open Arms). For all the months of his life, this government has been struggling and revolting, all it has done is create conflicts with the judiciary. Mr President, I would like to take a moment to ask you to submit the written text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Reports of the sitting. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that today a component is born within the Mixed Group, called "Politeia.eu" and that it intends to develop speeches and democratic culture. The President of the Senate can only take note of this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator De Falco. The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech. DE FALCO (Mixed). The events Diciotti, Sea-Watch, Mediterranea, Open Arms not only - and it would already be very serious - have seen the suffering of hundreds of desperate illegally detained, but also the constant humiliation of the organs of the State involved, used as the arm of a Minister, perhaps a President, out of control. Everything could, everything; illegitimately and illegally he really used those full powers that he already claimed to have, and of which today, just now, he asked only for ratification. The Count Government has not arginated anything of this drift; on the contrary, it has accepted, without breath, the insuffering towards those limits to power that is a denial of democracy. Suffering, attention, which is vulgar, screaming, aggressive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator De Falco. DE FALCO (Mixed). But I must have two minutes, Mr President, to say what needs to be said. You left President Salvini thirty-five minutes, Mr President. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u42	Excuse me, Senator De Falco. This repeated contest about the times is becoming unbearable, because you're really all over and I didn't say anything. She's seven minutes away and I didn't say anything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So be courteous, because then it's useless for me to have this board. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. This liberal democracy, much appreciated by Putin and the Visegrád bloc, has been dealt with irresponsiblely and counterproductively by the Italy of Salvini, President Salvini, in an attempt to undermine the idea of the European Union. It is a good thing that the Count Government, Mr President, is finally out of the picture, definitively, and remains a warning of how anti-democratic degeneration can be achieved even if only by silence, acquiescence, by letting go to avoid the worst, by waiting for the right time to fight on our issues, dear President. Our themes are Italian ones. We cannot wait for the time to come for our issues. In accordance with Article 95 of the Constitution, I would remind you, Mr President, that general policy coordination is necessary. There are no our themes and their themes: the decree-law security and the decree-law security- bis cannot be their themes, the self-defense cannot be their theme. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I conclude by saying: go home, goodbye! You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Bye-bye! You go home!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u44	I would like to point out to everyone that, since there has been a conference of group leaders precisely to determine the timing of each group, I would like you all to be respectful. I repeat another time that the League Group has forty minutes, Minister Salvini has spoken for twenty minutes and another ten minutes has requested them from Senator Bagnai, so it is exactly in terms. So be respectful, for this means taking away time from others. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u45	Mr President, President of the Count Council, ladies and gentlemen, as many people have said, our country is still, but not on the economic fundamentals, which like so much to flag the economists of the League when they vanquished of Italexit, of no euros, of mini-BOTs. Our country is blocked by an asphyxiary economy that sees only the interest rates galloping with the spread flames or the 15 billion bonfire that was consumed in Piazza Affari during the triggering of the government crisis: a monstrous, complicated figure to recover, a crazy damage. However, obviously all this does not matter to the lord of the flies who today, in a less dignified way, tried to resize what was an act of blind hybrid from surveys. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are faced with an absurd Augustan crisis, born of a gamble, perhaps due to some mojito too much or to the delirium of omnipotence that has distinguished the head of the League so far, deprived of any parliamentary orthodoxy and that we have been responsible able to subtract from the Republic of Papeete. We have strongly brought back here, in its natural place, a debate that Senator Salvini, even today fast to leave after his speech [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , he would never have wanted to face, imagining, perhaps out of constitutional ignorance, that he could directly resign his President of the Council, summon the Chambers, call elections without ever resigning. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We did not frighten ourselves at the vulgar appeal (which has accustomed us) to raise the terrarium and come to Rome, an appeal that came precisely from those who have little familiarity with the places of duty, from those between beaches and cubists who have always escaped the responsibility to respond to calls, whether it is a trial for alleged violations of the law, or whether it is the due attendance of the places where he was elected. For twenty-six years now, dear old minister Salvini, who are municipal councils, Dicasteries, Parliamentary classrooms, European tables, you are constantly on the run, you are absent. He could aspire to the Guinness of primates; a primacy that absolutely denies her the possibility of giving lessons in ethics, morality and sense of duty. We may be a little browned, but we never fail in the duty of presence. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today, however, we saw that she was dark in her face, but because of the anger of having made the wrong move and the despair of having to abandon an armchair that makes her feel much safer and more protected. The absurd appeal to the streets, and I thank you, Mr Conte, for calling him here in the Chamber, of those who are leading the Viminal, I hope for a very short time, in addition to that request with chills of full powers, responds to a plan that clearly aspires to a "democracy" that would embrace international ties far light years from our history, which looks at the rouble and not at the euro. [[Applause from the PD Group]] An absurd plan, which drives all of us today to reunite by trying to fade away some important differences, which are also there, and to respond responsibly to this curve of history. Senator Salvini, who called for elections, elections now, I think we need lessons, lessons now! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Lectures on the constitutional order, on the balance of powers, on parliamentary law to avoid those disbeliefs and those institutional rifts put in black and white by yourself, President Conte. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Maybe he did it a little late, it's true, but this has finally given us a whirlwind of institutional civilizations and also of hope. Better late than never! Lessons to which Senator Centinario should also feel obliged, who, in the midst of the crisis of government, instead of resigning as Minister of Agriculture, appointed the new director of Agea: in August! An act of institutional bullying, which makes fun of the respect of laws and regulations and translates into acts and facts the becero binomial: power-softer. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It was a mistake to allow this, President Conte. A modus operandi that has characterized the action of government of the League that, with the obsession of the polls, ignores any democratic rule thinking of being able to surrogate it with the likes that the beast captures on social media. Instead, it is a responsibility that this country is in damn need. The responsibility of those who today firmly reaffirm the danger of bringing the country towards reckless choices such as the increase in VAT, the provisional exercise of the budget or isolation in Europe in the important phase of appointment of the structures: other than flat tax! In a very fragile macroeconomic environment, which is moving towards a recessionary scenario with international economic tensions, the political agenda cannot be dictated by surveys. In this scenario the only trend that should be analyzed, if anything, is what interests a nice slice of the country. I refer to my South, where the expected potential growth of 0.4% would be tarnished by the increase in VAT, which is just 0.4% of GDP. It is in this field that the political game must be played and that commitments and initiatives must be drawn, starting from the project of differentiated autonomy. The League was a plan that never concealed the odious germ of the separation of interests between North and South of the country, to use the words of the president of Svimez, Luca Bianchi. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I come to the conclusion that even for the leader of the League this can be a time of responsibility. Mr Salvini will have to clarify in this House his relations with Savoini, his travels with him in Moscow, his meetings at the Metropol, why he even denied knowing him. He will have to clarify in the anti-Mafia Commission the web of relationships and interests that bind him to Siri and Arata, supposed forerunner of Nicastri: these are real inciuci, on which it is necessary to shed light, and not the convergence of the political debate around the interest of the country. Convergencies on the general interest are not unusual, Minister. The time is over when the meaning of an adjective or definition changes according to the one who pronounces it. The rules of our parliamentary democracy can also bring to the government parties like the League, which never won the elections, because the elections did not win them even in 2018. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You didn't win the PD, but you didn't win them either, you expired Minister, who was also to the government giving us international figures, loss of credibility, damage to our economy. Outside the clowns, it was the cry at the circus that was pronounced when the lions and the tamers entered, when it began to be serious. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Politics is a damn serious thing, dear Bagnai. He doesn't admit to clowning. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is not a social story, as well as institutions are not the ATM of a permanent election campaign. Never like today, then, using Senator Salvini's words, the tack is over. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSd'Az GROUP. Use your words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. STEFANO (PD). It's over. You know the door, sit down, you have abused our institutions too much. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u46	I'm warning you that from now on I won't keep an eye on the microphone, but the time is up, you'll take your word off.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u48	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, since I honestly did not understand whether the President of the Count Council has come here to take note of a motion of distrust which concerns him or to illustrate a new government programme to ask for a new confidence, I sincerely cannot be happy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am pleased that the government, perhaps the most bankrupt, controversial, contradictory and irreconcilable of republican history, ceases here to pretend to be alive, I cannot feel a sincere satisfaction because I am embarrassed. Mine is a sincere embarrassment. I believe that mine is the embarrassment of all those who believe that politics is a serious matter, that the State deserves to be properly represented, that ministerial functions require a reasonable and consequent style. We are veterans from a year of non-government, which has isolated Italy and further damaged the economy. I believe that no one in this House can reasonably argue that the country's conditions are better today than they were a year ago, and we are led back by a government crisis that could not have been more shocking, embarrassing and contradictory. President Count, your government doesn't die today. His government was born dead and what happened today is that a sweet death was celebrated, a euthanasia of his government. His government was born dead because he had nothing political to keep him together. We tend to remove everything, forget the natural course of things and probably have not been given enough weight to the fact that this Government is not born on the basis of a political understanding, like all governments of the Western developed world. This government is born on the basis of a contract - which has never been seen, nor heard - which was then ratified by the two political forces that support this government by their electorate with sufficiently grotesque mechanisms, but very much in step with the times (platform Rousseau and gazebo), but only in the part that concerned the political program of the individual party. So there is not even a popular investiture and legitimization of the entire program. Each party defended and proposed to the electorate only the part of the program that had been registered. In both cases the programme was unsuccessful. I believe that both the symbolic measures approved in the last budget law have clearly shown the rope; citizenship income has not served to restart the economy, as we were told, and quota 100 has not served to replace those who retired early with new workers. The relationship - in the evidently false rhetoric - had to be one by one; it was perhaps, at the best of the hypotheses of one to three. I value foreign policy very much because I believe that it is politics with capital. If we look at the results obtained by this Government, we realize that the Government was not there; there were two, perhaps three, with two, perhaps three distinct and contradictory positions in the natural conflict between them over everything. A political force on Europe has voted for the new President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, who has also been voted for by the Prince of the sovereignists Orban. So it's not an elitist palace operation. The others don't. We know the contradictions about Venezuela. It seems to me that, in wanting to be the smartest of all, we have alienated the sympathies of the United States of Trump, on the one hand, as - I think I can reasonably say - even Putin, on the other. On Xi I do not know - it is enigmatic by definition - but probably the operation that was made with the memorandum we will pay heavily in the future. President Conte, you have listed a series of alleged successes of this alleged Government. His list lacked the only real thing. You had the good taste not to mention the theme par excellence, which had to be priority for this, as for any government: the earthquake. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He forgot because nothing was done in favour of the earthquake victims of central Italy. In a few days it will be the third anniversary, in the general indifference of the political forces of this Government, as well as those who preceded it. President Conte, this is the result of a loss of propaganda. Demagogy and propaganda are part of politics, but enough, as old grandmothers used to say in cooking recipes. Over a certain measure, propaganda eats politics. We are witnessing politics killed by propaganda. I believe - I hope - that this serves as a lesson for someone. I hope that taking note of a clear failure of a redundant, even though contradictory propaganda can serve to improve and give more space to politics in the future. I hope so, but I always remember that a great Bolognese economic historian, Carlo Maria Cipolla, in a very nice treatise on human stupidity loved to remember that, of animal species, human species is the only one who never learn anything from their mistakes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u49	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u50	Mr President, I think I am interpreting the thinking of many senators and many senators, if not of the Government, starting by apologizing for this debate to the Italians who are listening to us and watching us on television. If I do not have bad memories, by pulsating the parliamentary minutes, from 1946 to today is the first case in which we discuss in this House the melanin rate due to earth tan and where we hide, with obscene vocation, behind religious sentiments. We have given an image of the Italian Parliament and this Senate, President, President Conte, which is quite unbecoming. On the other hand, with regard to tracing the causes of this crisis, it is also difficult for me to add something more to the words that the President-in-Office of the Council used. This was a very rare and authentic process by the President of the Council of Ministers to the Vice President of the Council of Ministers. There is no memory, in the history of Italy, of an event like this. We'll re-read it in tomi and you, professor, probably, in your next and future life, will teach your students. However, despite the absence of Mr Salvini, a couple of points must be made, because it cannot be allowed to be written in the parliamentary minutes a sequel of extraordinary lies. As for the first, it must be explained (you have done so, Mr Conte, for your part) that a decisive political force to keep a government alive can present a motion of distrust and, then, not withdraw its own ministers. This is probably a case - yes - of parliamentary law. There is a second issue that needs to be highlighted. If today, as Mr Salvini thinks, there is the possible, probable, potential betrayal of the electorate's mandate, it must be remembered that the first to deny the voters was, in fact, the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior closed the election campaign sixteen months ago, reminding the Italians that the President of the Council would be expressed by the political force of the centre-right that would reach the highest number of votes. He forgot to say that he would make the Vice President of the Council an alternative coalition. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u51	You can finish, Senator Nencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u52	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, I shall conclude by asking for permission to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u53	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u55	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I use your adjectives: you are always a kind person and you are a trained, competent, sometimes a professor. Today he gave us a lesson, rewriting history and also the Constitution, trusting in the ignorance of his students, but not all of us are enrolled in the Movimento 5 Stars. You have told us that we risk the provisional exercise, but you have to explain to us why you have taken two weeks to come to this House and draw the consequences of a crisis, which has been going on for two weeks. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pisani Pietro]] Two weeks is perhaps the time it takes to write a budget law. If the country risks temporary exercise it is its fault, it is the fault of its fervent attention to the image. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you tell us here, as if nothing had happened, that the Minister of the Interior, who answers you, is a dangerous person for the institutions, because he has authoritarian tendencies. And do you notice today? Does he tell us today, after fourteen months, that the Minister of the Interior, the authority that guarantees the State and public order, has authoritarian tendencies? He should have said that in Parliament and in the nation, in due time and in no time suspect, otherwise this is a crime on his part. You paint us here a White Mill Government and you tell us that there really was no reason, because this is the Yes Government. Too bad that this morning, in the main economic daily of the country, Â Il Sole 24 Ore Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Il Sole 24 Ore Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â It is 6 billion euros blocked, while the country is still and suffering langue. This is the Ministry of No and it is the Government of No. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You, Prime Minister, draw us a White Mill Government and outline a new program for us, as if you were running for another government. What is the government you're running for? What has happened this year? In this year we witnessed the decline of Italy at the international level. We are out of the game and are expelled even from the areas of major national interest, as demonstrated by the events in Libya and those even more mysterious and important in the Balkans. We have appeared unreliable to all, unable to maintain a position more than a few hours, succubs of the interests of the main international actors. This is the year of stagnation, the year of zero growth, with 6,000 less employed in June of this year and 250,000 young people who fled Italy. This is the year you didn't do the privatisations, which you claimed. There were €18 billion in privatisations in the budget, but you did not make a euro of privatisations. We had 158 tables of crisis, 300,000 workers at risk, the collapse of industrial production, the reduction of consumption, the increase of the North-South divide and the income of citizenship, which according to a minister of his government was allocated 70% to those who had not straightened out. This is the year of Italy's subdiction in Europe: first with the financial law, written in Brussels, and then with the new governance of the Union they played us as they wanted. Germany, after a decade in which it had decided to entrust the Presidency of the Commission to weak people, an expression of weak countries (such as Luxembourg and Portugal), for the first time appointed - because this has done so - a strong German leader, a strong woman of the strongest country, and has taken full control of the European institutions, for the fugitives of Great Britain and the decadence of Italy and Spain. It will try to make us digest a reform of the saved-state mechanism that harms the vital interests of Italy. How do you respond? And how do Italy and this Parliament respond? By proposing the Government of Restoration, without even the nobility of the Gattopard. The citizen's lawyer, perhaps yourself, will be replaced by the butler of Ursula, as someone has proudly claimed, and the sovereign government will suddenly turn into a collaborative government, of which many Quislings are already ready to proudly assume paternity. This is the end of a historical mistake, which the League also made, when it did not listen to us and wanted to take the path of the government contract, giving the country to this situation, in this House. This is the end of the 5 Star Movimento and that just now applauded it even while condemning social policy. They applauded it: a movement that was born on the Internet today even condemns social policy [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] , although it was born with the intention and the image of can openers, which wanted to open Parliament like a can, but now it does everything to stay inside, clinging to the armchairs, closing the entrance doors well from the inside, so that citizens can not decide or vote. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Roberto Michels - whom you know well, but explain to them who he was, perhaps through Wikipedia - called it the iron law of oligarchy, which transforms the ruling class of so-called revolutionary parties into oligarchy. This is the end of the Government of Change and Movimento 5 Stars and it cannot be otherwise. After what happened, it was clear and significant in this House to hand himself over plastically to the political address of Matteo Renzi: he is the Messiah who quotes the Gospel and shows you the way to go; he is the Matteo Renzi who forgets the banks, but not those of scandals, but those with 600,000 mortgages, with the 600,000 houses that have been put up for auction these days and those 1,2 million citizens who have ended up in the hands of bank stalking; Matteo Renzi forgets the family of Bibbiano, which is not a scandalistic fact, but must make us reflect on the prevailing culture in this country, according to which the children are always children of no one: there are neither father nor mother and can be taken away by a judge, perhaps with arbitrary proof. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] This culture of the children of no one and of an Italy without identity is yours, but it does not belong to us: we go to the vote to restore real Italy to the Government of the country. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u56	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u57	Mr President, I will be obedient and respectful of the times. President Conte, I imagine you have noticed, during this debate and even during the months you have dealt with the Democratic Party, that our Group has great respect for the institutions, both when it governs and when it is in opposition. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This respect for the institutions, President Conte, we have also shown him here today and in recent days when - still in times not suspicious, when still this theater of the absurd had not been created in art by the vice premier, premier in singer Matteo Salvini, captain on the run - we had also tabled a motion of distrust. In view of your willingness to come to Parliament for a communication on the crisis, however, we preferred to listen to you for normal institutional relations. What you did was an exaltation of the rules, of our common living within the institutions. Let's say we've seen too many of them over the last 14 months of garbage, burglary, and institutional grammar. We have seen so many of them here today and I am sorry that Vice Prime Minister Salvini left after his speech, because for good education, when we speak, especially with reference to other colleagues, in this case the Senators of the Democratic Party, we should have at least the patience to stay in the Chamber and listen perhaps to some replies and some comments about this. 18.37 (Following MALPEZZI). The Senator, Minister, former Premier, Vice-President, what is at this moment Salvini said that he had to go to the Viminale to work and this would be the real news, since in fourteen months of legislature at the Viminale there was little and even from outside of work he did very little, if not for himself, for his personal campaign, for the consents that he also took foraging his powerful social machine, that beast that in the Viminale has undoubtedly found a suitable and valid place and that the consents to it has increased considerably. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Why am I sorry that the senator, vice president, former minister Salvini isn't here? Why don't I, Prime Minister Conte, have Senator Salvini pass for the victim. I don't want him to turn into what he doesn't want to stick to the chair by saying that it's the others who want to stick to the chair, when he hasn't resigned yet, he's the one who started this crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And then, perhaps, some interest in staying at the Viminale has it, at least we have the doubt. But I tell you more: I don't want it to turn into a novel San Sebastiano pierced by all the potholes of the opposition when he, with his violent language, attacked in all these months women, magistrates, singers, girls who disagreed by posting their images on social media. And he's the victim? Is he the subject of all our accusations? I think Senator Salvini should be ashamed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All seasoned by the mermaids explained paid with the money of the Italians. He did not do anything about what he kept going around promising and which he said earlier in this House. He complained, rightly, because there are no increases for the Forces of Order. He's the Minister of the Interior and he had to ask for these increases. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The only increases that the Forces of Order have enjoyed are those that we have left them, with the last two budget laws. I remind you of this and I also remind you, Prime Minister Conte, because you cannot come here to tell the fairy tales to the Italians, you have to tell the truth and Senator Salvini has also lied in this House today. This is the great institutional scorn that he has continued to do and that he continues to do to all of us. I would add, however, that, precisely in the respect of the institutions, despite our opposition is always on, we have presented ourselves in these fourteen months with the seriousness of those who face a measure tries to work to get into the merit and we have done it in all different circumstances always with seriousness, never ideologically. We did it when you upset our income of inclusion, almost with an iconoclastic fury, which erased everything that could be useful to you too for the construction of citizenship income, but especially for Italians, who today would have an additional tool. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We did this when you intervened violently and inexplicable on volunteering, on the third sector. We did this when we wanted to stop the destruction of the security decrees and your closed-unclosed port policy, which was only necessary to keep prisoners of the desperate while simultaneously protecting Minister Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We did this when we celebrated with you - I stress - the assignment of the Winter Olympics in Milan and Cortina, except then to see you put them in crisis and at risk because of choices that we do not share - undersecretary Giorgetti knows - in your law delegation on sport. All this we have done is try to make suggestions and to participate with the seriousness that distinguishes us, because the institutions do not love each other depending on whether they are majority or opposition, but they love each other and always respect each other. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, we would have liked this respect from the first day of your government. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u58	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u59	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this evening you have allowed us to relive with nostalgia a splendid American comedy - you will remember it - that is to say, 'The Roses' War': a wonderful couple of lovers meet, marry, then quarrel, divorce and end badly. You re-enacted this beautiful comedy today. Mr. President Conte, I must confess that I underestimated you. In this year and a half you have shown an almost unique skill: you have managed to conceal all the contradictions of your Government. On the other hand, she did it with a plastic photo - I have it in mind - when she met, if I am not mistaken, at the international summit in Davos, Chancellor Merkel. Do you remember? She whispered in her ear trying to reassure her: "Look, dear Angela, don't worry: everything is happening in Italy and all the statements are the result of a war, a spasmodic search for consensus. So don't worry, because everything they say then we don't do it. That is what happened, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have to tell you the truth: the consequences of this spasmodic search for consensus are before everyone's eyes, no matter how much they want to hide it. We are in the midst of economic recession, there is an industrial collapse; the sun 24 hours - the only newspaper, I must say - yesterday wrote that all our fellow citizens will pay as much as 5 billion more interest on public debt. And I can tell you: you have done nothing about bureaucratic simplification. Even today, despite the Government of Change, if a merchant or a restaurateur wants to open a restaurant, he needs thirty clearances. You haven't done anything this year and a half. On the other hand, what could be expected from a contract? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your majority has never been the result of a common political project; there has never been a common vision of the future; no thought has united your majority. You have had to certify a contract and, like all contracts, it is also expected that they will cease, in this case for the bankruptcy of the contractors of your majority. Mr President, I am not shocked at the way in which consensus is created. Today there are modern tools: you make direct Facebook, you make selfies and everything else. But I have to tell you quite frankly: my hope is that each member of this majority will not go only to the squares in which it takes the praise of the people, but go where there are the factories that close (almost 160 crisis tables are at the Mise); go where the shops close, where the merchants can no longer pay their suppliers, where the young people leave this country. Go there, don't just go where they applaud you. Go where Italy is suffering. Mr President, you see, we live in a dichotomy that is not from your government, but which unfortunately goes back many years. The Christian Democracy had introduced the incompatibility between those who are in government and those who manage or have a prominent role within the party. And then I say it to friends throughout the constitutional arc and not only to those who govern today: we must introduce this novelty. The Christian Democracy introduced it, if I am not mistaken, in 1992. It is legitimate to maintain and build consensus; but an account is to do so from a party position and an account is to do so when carrying out an institutional task. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Look carefully, that institutional task does not turn its gaze only to Italian citizens, but turns it abroad and, if we are not credible and reliable, who should invest in this country runs away and is afraid. Mr President, to be very clear, we hope for the vote, we hope for it because we believe it is the only way out of this crisis. At the same time, however, we are telling you very clearly that we trust in our Constitutional Charter. Mr President, a few jokes have been made during this period of August. I say this to my colleagues throughout the constitutional arc, of which I have great esteem and respect: none of you should be allowed to say or to let others say that we are idlers or idlers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have worked and I have respect especially for colleagues in the majority, I have respect for the work they have done, although I have always been on the opposite side. I want to say this quite frankly: in these days of August, in which I could not enjoy the family (you know, many people talk about family, but then you have to take care of it), I have dedicated myself to reading the preparatory acts to the drafting of the Constitutional Charter. Those acts exude of suffering, of pain, of blood, but also of hope. Calamandrei says it very well: that Constitutional Charter is the fruit of the contribution of the Fathers of the nation, such as Cattaneo, Beccaria, Garibaldi, Mazzini, Don Luigi Sturzo. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In that Constitutional Charter there is a solution to this crisis and we rely - I conclude, Mr President - on the wisdom of the President of the Republic. We did so even when his will did not meet our wishes. Our hope, Mr President, is that today the Senate of the Republic and the whole Parliament, whatever decisions our President of the Republic takes, will not allow themselves not to be at your side. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u60	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u61	President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I sincerely appreciate the choice you have made, while maintaining your commitment to come to this House, out of respect for Parliament and the country. This is certainly a good thing. Of course, on the narration of the results of your Government I cannot agree; on the other hand it is enough to see some concrete data that tell us how this result is not there. I just want to give you one example, which is disgusting for Italy. We are talking about desperate people who are on a ship and, at the same time, this Government has made less returns and the illegality grows: a resounding failure, first of all of the Ministry of the Interior and of the Government. However, his statements make it clear, I believe definitively, that the experience of this Government is over and cannot be exhumed, even if I must say that with surprise I listened to Minister Salvini, who, besides not having withdrawn the Ministers, in his speech, after saying that he is ready to forgive the offenses, left in suspense I did not understand what. The possibility of this government going on? I do not think so, Mr President-in-Office, because you have made it clear that this government is over. And it ends very badly, too. So I would not like to make here the report of the problems this Commission has had. Of course, the one who triggered and exploded the crisis is Minister Salvini for his ambitions of power, with a gamble on the country, with the arrogance and conviction that everyone had to obey his decisions. You have not done so, and I appreciate that, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Salvini has become accustomed to this in recent months: security decree-law, security decree-law- bis, trust and what he wanted. He got used to it, as you rightly said. Once in a speech I said that Minister Salvini had everything, because he did the Minister everything. But now is the time for reflection and I would like to offer you two considerations. The first is as follows: perhaps the trigger was Salvini, but there is a deeper reason for this crisis. After all, if we look at these months, very often the fundamental nodes you have encountered have seen you in radically different positions. This is a reflection that should be done, in my opinion, is the node: the contract did not stand and broke in the face of a bullying hegemony of the right, which imposed, in the name of a populist vision, its distant vision, in many respects opposed, to that of the other ally, the Movimento 5 Stars. It is an objective fact that you paid on your skin, at a very high price because in truth we experienced constitutional distortions such as the decree-law security-a. Not on one point (immigration, taxation, work, differentiated autonomy, foreign policy) you had similar positions; at most mediation was: one thing for me is for you. That's where we have to start. For me, the fundamental point, I say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, is that we are stagnating, Germany is facing a recession, we are facing serious problems, but we are also facing another problem: the credibility of politics. I would like to say to Mr Salvini, who is not here, that I am a free senator and I claim to be a free senator. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]] , but parliamentary democracy plans to check if there is another majority; until you have changed the Constitution, our country works that way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It must be clear, however, that we cannot make an agreement, a government, we cannot defend our armchairs. Here you have to change the paradigm: you need a new project. Elections? In this country we have been on the electoral campaign for years and in this election campaign we have unnerved the country. I wonder what the Italian citizens who listen to us will think. We must return to the social issue, which the centre-left has failed to represent, which you did not have the capacity to represent, and which took this right into your hands by investing in fear and hatred. This is the real danger. We need to try to see if there's any of these conditions. Otherwise, it would be useless. But there are so many things that can be done and I hope that we will try with the generosity that this country needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u62	Thank you, Senator Errani. Thank you, because there is so much talk of respect for the times and you have gone two minutes beyond your time. Thank you very much. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u63	Mr President, I do not speak much. I will speak little, President Conte, Professor Conte, because I do not want to keep you here, since you have other more important commitments and, of course, people more important than me who are waiting for you. Above all, Mr President, many Italians are waiting for you, because, at least the Italians who talk to me, this has been waiting for you for several months, just after the constitution of your Government. You, President Conte, told us a lectio magistralis about the need to be in the institutions, to be able to be a minister, to be able to hold public office: what I call a pistol. Forgive me, but as a much more pedestal senator, I can think of this term. You have not even mentioned the failure of your Government. In fact, he described a series of ghostly results, which no one noticed or, at least, did not notice the real country. Probably, they noticed them in the virtual country of our Pentastellated colleagues, but not in the real country. In the end, he proposed to us the end of his governmental experience and the fact that he is going to go to the President of the Republic to resign. Forgive me, however, Mr President, if, I repeat, as a somewhat simple senator, I want to understand better. Minister Salvini - one can share or not - a path, however, outlined it and drew it; a vision described it to us. He told us what he thought would be the next days and the near future, that is, the elections, because Italy deserves more. We of Brothers of Italy say from the beginning of the legislature that this Government would have had this outcome and that it would have been a lost period for Italians, given the inability to put together the devil and holy water (I leave it to you to understand who the devil is and who the holy water is). Even, Senator Grasso has manifested a vision! Even the Mixed-Leu Group delighted us with a vision! You, President Conte, then tell us in your reply if you are available to a Count-A by another majority. Since you have made it clear that this majority is over, are you available, Mr President, to another majority without going back to the polls? Are you willing to act as a noble image of an unwavering, even constitutional, but truly unwavering incision? Can you clarify this question and this detail? You see, President Conte, as Mr La Russa said, you have outlined your programme. At the moment when she began to outline the programme of things to do in Italy, and in the last fourteen months at least one of the many measures described could have safely realized it, she spoke to us about the young people, the school, the university, the inclusion of the marginalized poor, citing the Constitution, the disabled, the differentiated autonomy, the revival of the South, the investments to be made, a great eco-sustainable plan. Indeed, he spoke to us about the exploitation of wave motions, circular industrial policy, the need for a new model of growth, the cabin of direction WellnessItaly, tourism, cultural heritage, popular traditions and folklore. Forgive me, Mr President, but as I am the Senator of Perugia and coming from Umbria, I ask you: a mention of the earthquake victims of Italy who are still waiting to understand what they must do, not to return to their homes, but to have an answer about reconstruction practices? But the real problems of Italy, you who rightly condemn Facebook and social policy, want us to outline and decline them in some way, to say what could be a hypothesis? However, in this case, Mr President, I am happy today - excuse me for the simple passage - that you tell us what you are doing tomorrow; we are all interested to know, Mr President, because it is not just the surveys that suggest that another Italy is out of here; it is not just the polls that tell us that this Parliament has passed and expired because there are too many triggers, too many Renzians and too many people that if you vote you should free these cracks. There are the results of many important regions, such as Piedmont, Sardinia, Abruzzo and Basilicata, which have voted and outlined a clear preference, clearly defining that there is another majority. So, President Conte, you who are so respectful of the constitutional dictation that you are so familiar with the ways and times in which you have to take office, can you please tell us what you are going to do tomorrow? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let us contrast the confusion of the Palace and its games, the Ursula and Orsola formulas with the clarity of good policy. What about President Conte's attitude and intervention? He seemed to me to be one of Open Arms, looking for a safe harbor in the arms of the PD, to whom he begged a residence permit at Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Maybe soon he will declare himself a minor too, as some who were not, so it will facilitate his stay. You do not want the crisis via social and you are right, but it is the banner of those who have entrusted to platforms, whose reliability is all the proof, even decisions vital for democracy and for Parliament, so it is the last one that can deprecate the use of those means. He says that there must be no insults and hatred, but she is the occasional son of Vaffa-Day - before the term has not been pronounced, but it is now part of the political dialectic - so frankly, if she was hostile to languages that we rightly deprecate, she had to think about it first. But I address myself also and especially to Salvini, asking him how and with whom he wants to do the things he has reminded us today that, sometimes exaggerated tones apart, in essence we share. Colleagues of the centre-right, of yesterday and I hope of tomorrow, it is above all to you that I address; throughout the post-war period the substantive pact originating from Christian Democracy and the Communist Party has kept out any central-right hypothesis. Even Don Sturzo, in 1952, was prevented from making an alliance for the Capitol for the municipal elections between the DC, the monarchists and the right. In 1960 Tambroni had the courage to take the external vows of the missins; in Italy the revolution broke out in the literal sense, even with the dead. It took 1994, with the descent of Berlusconi [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , to create and found the center-right in Italy. This is Italian history. It encouraged the transformation of the political right, which was already in place, and territorial authorities of the League that were then perhaps more secessionist than federalist, investing on the union of these forces and generously entrusting to them the government of important Regions of Italy, regardless of the numbers and percentages [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and respecting the socialist autonomous bloc. Craxi tried to break the hegemony of the left of the PC and we know what fate was reserved for him, saving those who at the Dark Shops took a billion from Gardini and company because we did not know who had taken that billion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the history of Italy, with the liberal secular threads, with the Catholic presences, with many realities that have joined in the center-right. Berlusconi brought to the government this social block too often excluded and broke the hegemony of the left (sometimes renamed center left or center looking left, but always left looking and never on the other side). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There have been victories and defeats, media and judicial assaults. I am not here to redo the story, but glorious, with so many affirmations and also an international prestige, Mr. President Conte. In fact, I remember that then we were talking with Russia to get it to practice in the sea to make agreements with NATO. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We were talking to North Africa to block illegal immigrants and to make development plans in North Africa to really and structurally block immigration. This is the policy that our colleagues in the centre-right - I am addressing them, not to be harmed by others - should take with us, rebuilding this path. I want to remember it in historical, cultural, political and moral terms. We're this way. The Governments of all against a national salvation with the left do not concern us and do not interest us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] But with the triggers the worst left took advantage of a fair popular anger, which we understand, but which was entrusted to the utmost of incompetence and inability, President Conte. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You, who have remembered so many failures, remember that the authors of the failures have them around and there is no need to insist. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We look at the path of history and not at the miseries of the chronicle, even everyday. We want to see the failure of an unnatural government. How many times have we said that it was an unnatural alliance between the worst and most old-fashioned Italian left, the grill, and who instead had to be anchored - and sometimes tried to do so - to a center-right program. We must then reunite this alliance and the Democratic Party, as always, tries to return to power without passing through the vote, because democratic has only the name, but not the practice of consensus to govern. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want this other Italy, that has defended the natural family, that defends the enterprise and the job and wants to clear the fiscal and bureaucratic jungle, can return to govern, passing through the vote, and block a government between triggers and PD that would be the Government of the prosecutors, the patrimony and the fiscal and bureaucratic oppression: a nightmare for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We're telling everybody. The center-right numbers have changed... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u65	Senator Pharaoh, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u66	Please, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-BP). We want a united centre and those with more strength today have the obligation to have more wisdom, as the history I have mentioned has shown. In fact, we have a historic opportunity, given that the majority of Italians want a certain Government on tax, family, business and protection of Italy in Europe. We want to be in Europe, but proud and head-to-head, as we tried to do. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We were fought and there were those who applauded when others laughed at Italy, not taking sides with the legitimate Democratic Government. Mr President, I shall conclude. We want this Italy that the center-right represents to return to the Government through the vote, meditating on its history yesterday, but also accepting the challenge for tomorrow, which together we must build with consensus and democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u67	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u68	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that we were right when reason was wrong. Today the wrong is in the Chamber: the government falls and gives us reason. We were right, therefore, when, after that institutional crisis which lasted eighty-nine days, with two useless exploratory mandates, we did not want the yellow-green government to be born. We did not want because we had been in coalition with the League to politics; we did not want because it was and is a coalition against political nature and based on a contract. I do not want to disturb the two-faced Giano, who was able to look at the past and the future, because this Government was not able to do so. More than anything else we have renamed him, not only here, a Frankenstein Government, a government of two different populisms, quickly unpopular. We are now facing the real risk, which I have not heard enough of in this House, of an agony for the country and of a vacuum of power. Italy, which Brothers of Italy loves, does not deserve this theatre, does not deserve a disaster like the one we are witnessing these days. I want to come to your communications, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: I have calculated the space you have reserved for criticism in your speech, which is about 60%. I won't repeat what he said, because we all listened to him. A very small percentage devoted it to government actions and therefore did not invest in his communications to tell us how much beautiful things have been done and found a residual part of time to draw up the future government contract. He didn't talk about the Italian crisis, he didn't talk about the open tables, he didn't talk about the workers asking us what will happen tomorrow, he didn't talk about recession and he didn't talk about financial maneuvering. I say this by the way: after your speech, the European stock exchanges have closed down negatively and there are so many issues that have not found any place, space or emphasis in your report. I ask you a question, since you have given up telling the government's actions, to tell us how much Minister Salvini has harmed you. The question is, if you had a spoiler in the government, a Pierino Vice President, why did you wait 14 months to come here? Would you have opened the crisis if someone else, in questionable times and ways if we wanted to, hadn't you accelerated it? It is a fundamental question, and it is not a rhetorical question, but a political question, to which you have not responded today and will be able to do so in your replies. I quote another passage from your speech: you thanked the majority and opposition Members - thank you - and then thanked the citizens, who gave you confidence. As I listened to you, I wondered how, when and where these citizens would express this confidence? Beyond the platforms, which you condemned, there was no other mechanism. You have not been elected and so where have the citizens expressed this confidence that you feel has been placed? That is also a question. We come today and, if possible, tomorrow. Mr President, Brothers of Italy - ever since we were wrong, when we were right - has always remained on the same side, consistently, and today continues to ask vehemently and forcefully for the country to finally return to the vote and ask the Italians which Government and what majority of Government they want. This is what Brothers of Italy will ask President Mattarella. Anything else, dear President, whether or not we speak of an institutional government, of a legislature government or of a German government of suggestion, the Ursula model, does not interest us, because these are intrigued and intrigued by the Palace, which is racked with popular will and popular sovereignty. People's sovereignty, in fact, has told us, in the last European elections and in the regional elections, that another majority is possible in the country. It is a majority that I want to call sovereignist, that has its own program and that will know what to do to the government tomorrow. I don't see any other plans. I see armchair alliances, I see obnoxious crooks, but I don't see how a new hypothetical majority can stay together. I would also like to say to Minister Salvini, who has given his willingness, to be careful: I understand the dialectic, but sometimes the patch can be worse than the hole. This country wants, demands and deserves elections, to finally elect a government. The last elected government, in fact, was that of Prime Minister Berlusconi: since then we have had governments that have not been elected by citizens. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] In a parliamentary democracy the voice of the people, citizens and voters is removed only to perpetuate alchemies in the Palace. MIRABELLI (PD). In proportion, what do you want to elect? RAUTI (FdI). We are not: the Italian right has never been in this logic of inciuci. We never did the Palace stumbles, and we always rejected them. Today as then we only ask to give back the voice to the Italians for their right. Brothers of Italy remains on the side of its coherence: it imagines, asks and hopes that there will be the possibility of returning to the polls and that there will be a new majority of compact, cohesive and capable Government to last five years, with its own program and that it does not hear every day say everything and the opposite of everything, that does not bring contradictions in the classrooms and is not all the result of a downward mediation. Let's imagine a cohesive government and made up of alliances before the vote around a precise program, without hesitation and above all without temptations of reverses. Finally, dear President: I have read on social media - and forgive me if I bring it back - from the people's attorney to the chair lawyer. Social media, you know, are evil: I don't say it, but pay attention to what you're going to do, because if you don't go back to the vote, you'll be responsible for a white coup worthy of a banana republic. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations. Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u69	Do you want me to exercise censorship of speeches, colleagues? He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u70	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking with some bitterness here, but this must not prevent me from being very frank. He had the opportunity to appreciate the consistency and loyalty with which I served his government action. As a sign of this confidence and loyalty, I remind you when, having spoken about it, I shared with you a tweet in which President Borghi ironized on the void attitude with which on 19 December 2013, the then President of the Council boasted that he had concluded the banking union. President Borghi said: you have not understood what you have done, they will run after you with pitchforks and I will support for the pursuers; in fact, two years after the PD fell on that banking union, with the events of Bank Etruria and the bail-in advance. This sharing had a meaning: to emphasize that the League would not be willing to make similar mistakes and also to remind it that it would find, at least in a piece of this majority, economists capable of understanding two years before what would happen two years later. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] We felt that this could be an opportunity for you, also considering the fact that you had expressed the desire to involve Parliament since your first speech. In fact, in this, which may have been your swan song today, at least in this experience, there has been talk of parliamentaryisation of the crisis and of Parliament's involvement, for reasons of transparency, you said. Transparency was there: this parliamentaryisation allowed us to understand and explain to the Italians that we did not open it, which was opened instead by those who turned their backs on you when you started speaking in the Chamber and by those who basically voted against a motion that concerned an infrastructure work which had given you its support. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] If you did not want to take note of this and wanted a parliamentary passage - which we appreciate, precisely because you allow us to express ourselves - you do not understand why you ask other ministers to resign: obviously, after the parliamentary passage, you will take note. He referred to the constitutional culture and I, who am an amateur of it, have documented myself: Italy has gone into provisional exercise 33 times in the post-war period; the average duration of the previous legislatures has been 4.3 years; if I am not mistaken, in eight years there have been early elections. So we are not in pathology, but in physiology. What I think is an element of inconsistency, however, is something that - and I must tell you this with a little bitterness, but with frankness - has undermined my confidence that this desire for transparency has not been in other circumstances, in particular there has been no negotiation with Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would remind you that this House is still waiting for the text of the reform of the ESM negotiated with opacity and without the necessary parliamentary involvement, despite the efforts that I know I have made with loyalty, supported by the officials of this House and also supported by my Commission. I would like to remind you that the ESM has already cost Italy more than 50 billion, and for those who cling to the costs of democracy, I will say that it has cost us half a century to make Parliament work, if anyone ever bothers to make Parliament work or perhaps call elections when it is necessary. It is true that we had also had an advance of this kind of highly-argued attitude in defense of a certain financial approach. I remember that when on February 22 of this year you came to the Chamber, you defended with sword the thesis supported by the Bank of Italy in the face of a question from a colleague of Brothers of Italy, according to which the Bank of Italy owned the gold of the Italians. This surprises me and even more surprises us now that the ECB itself, with the CON/2019/23 of June 24, has clarified that central banks have only the detention and not the ownership of the gold they use to carry out their business. Of course I will not be so irreverent as to explain the difference between these two concepts to a much more refined lawyer than I can ever claim or pretend to be, but I would like to point out that on that occasion you, who had started as a lawyer for the people, which I had appreciated, had actually acted as a lawyer for the Bank of Italy and that I had appreciated a little less. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These are things that must be remembered, also because at this moment on social media, to which you have manifested an attitude of distance on which I would have something to say, but for brevity I do not delay, with melodramatic accents we hear appeals to be saved by the PD and we are accused of having betrayed for tactical reasons this Government that worked well and to deliver Italy in the hands of the parties of taxes and stagnation. To the people who accuse us of this I want to say that the financial that a government of those responsible will be able to do - those responsible today are called the Brussels ascari, as we know - will not be much worse than what under its leadership we would have been forced to name ourselves. This is the problem, because it was very explicit on this, for example, Mr Tria, who had spoken of very low deficits and therefore basically we had to forget a significant cut in taxes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] This was the focus of the question and the fundamental point is that when these statements, these political guidelines, not previously shared by a technical minister with all the majority who supported his government, had been expressed, and President Borghi, in particular, taking the role of the bad policeman, had intervened to challenge them, this line had found a broad sharing and political coverage even, to my amazement, in the person of Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, the same one that, to my astonishment, had defined us the new Tangentopoli on May 16 of this year during an electoral campaign that frankly had taken on the tones from which it was understood that it would be difficult to withdraw without the effort of everyone. For a financial of this kind, then, honestly it could not be expected that there would be an agreement of the League. Precisely because the economic situation is not favourable - some authoritative colleagues in the opposition have even noticed it, we were proud to have noticed it at least in advance - we need a vision, we need courage and you have decided not to have it and you cannot ask us to follow it along this path. Today, Martin Sandbu on the 'Finncial Times' calls on Europe to unblock fiscal policies and we cannot support a more conservative government than the 'Finncial Times'. As is widely anticipated by our elaboration, France and Germany are preparing to violate irrational rules. And we are victims of an approach that always takes us, for a complex misunderstanding of inferiority, to be more realistic than the king. This is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Allow me to point out to you, precisely to support my not particularly original thesis, that you are concerned about the spread, but the spread does not care about you: the government has fallen today - perhaps it has fallen, I did not understand well why I am new to the trade - and the spread has fallen. That means you did the right thing in your metric. This is one of the European miracles. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , like the miracles of sick migrants coming down from the NGO ships and, as soon as they touch the ground, like the new Anteos, they heal and suddenly heal. Allow me to make a point: you first accused Minister Salvini of being distracted by many things. But if the Salvini who arrested illegal immigration, with other support from this group of government, was a distracted Salvini, let alone what will be the effectiveness of Salvini when he can free himself from the ballast of useless skirmishes [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] to carry out a government action supported by a parliamentary majority consistent with the political direction of the country. Because that's what the Italians are asking for, and that's what democracy is asking for.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u72	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made your communications to us; you have appreciated and thanked all those who have worked - we have also appreciated the fact that you have also thanked the oppositions - in these fourteen and a half months of your Government, and you have shown your commitment to the good of the country. I believe that the commitment for those who govern, which is an always difficult task - and certainly the many ministers and Undersecretaries present have really touched him with hand - always requires respect. However, the results were not up to the level, also because alongside that commitment, to which I believe, there was the temptation, to which it was largely given, to commit not to make the necessary measures for the country, but the measures useful to take some extra votes and to lose some less votes. The two things sometimes get along, but very often they don't get along, also because one should govern with a little longer perspective than the next regionals, the next Europeans, the next poll. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In doing so, the results were the ones we saw. When you think that Italians are a little naive - I use a kind word - and therefore do not appreciate the useful measures but those that seem useful, you do wrong to the Italian people, because the Italian people understand. Sometimes it takes time - as it takes time for each of us - to understand certain situations, but then you understand. The results you have reported are almost all expected: we have also seen laws approved by the beautiful titles; it is a pity that then the text did not correspond to that title. We had already seen this with previous governments, for example with good school. Now we have seen the corrupt sweeping measures, relaunch, simplifications, dignity, and so on: all the virtues. Only the theological virtues were missing, especially that of hope. There is the expectation of something to come, but it did not come. Going very broadly, we have seen that the Italian economy has a growth of zero and is at the last place in Europe. Someone consoles themselves thinking that we are at the football derby and saying that Germany is also in trouble. Germany is in trouble, but still it grows more than Italy and this is not a reason for joy, because in the derby, if the other team is in trouble, my team maybe manages to score goals and then it's okay. That is not the case, because, if Germany is in difficulty, it means that it will matter less and, since what Italy has supported in recent years has been exports especially to Germany, this means that this will be a further difficulty. It is certainly not a consolation to think that Germany also has some difficulty. From 1 January, in one hundred thirty days or so, we will have 25% VAT: a disaster for our country. Senator Bagnai spoke of the provisional exercise and said it was used 33 times in the history of our Republic. Yes, but the last time was in 1988; for thirty-one years the provisional exercise has not been used. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The provisional exercise could also be carried out, we know very well what the mechanism is: one twelfth of the expenditure chapters of the previous budget law are applied to the following year. The problem is that there is a safeguard clause: very true, you are not the first Government to have introduced the safeguard clause, but you are the first Government that risks not being in a position to find the resources. On the contrary, with the fact that it ends today, this Government certainly does not do so; it will put someone else in a position to have to find that thirty billion - excuse me if it is little - to avoid that, alongside all the other promises that have been made. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want an Italy that goes exactly in the opposite direction, that is to do the serious things that the country needs, even if not tomorrow. Tomorrow the survey may not give us a gain of 2 points, 5 points or 0.2 points: but it is necessary to move the country forward, because the real country is the one that pushes Italy forward. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is the companies, the workers, the professionals, the Forces of Order, that they too have remained at zero and have had nothing. They had solidarity and it is already something; in the past we have seen that almost always we sided with those who were against the Forces of Order. But it's too little. We want more. Italy deserves better. We welcome the end of this Government and hope that a new experience will be gained. We do not want two parties with different programmes, which have always fought fiercely and now want to create another government: thank you, we have seen these fourteen months and we do not want any more. We want to give the word to the Italians, because we govern Italy with clear ideas, in the long term, for the good of the Italians and not for the poll tomorrow morning. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u73	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u74	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have seen Mr Bagnai leave, because from his speech it almost seemed that you ran away so as not to make the budget law. If so, congratulations, you have a great sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, today, Tuesday, August 20, we are here, in the Senate Chamber, to indulge in madness. I want to reiterate this, because I would like to make it very clear to everyone: it has been twelve days since all of us have witnessed an authentic, lucid madness. And while a democratic and institutional system risked bowing to the unhealthy fantasies of Matteo Salvini, Salvini himself went on his holidays before, in July, and returned to this House last week. From the beaches we were forced to see him having fun doing the DJ, between a mojito, a selfie, a nice picture in the company of some cubist and - why not? - a government crisis. Only 12 days ago. Just now in this Chamber, Salvini said that we senators would be afraid to work in August. I tell the Italians: while Salvini, the Minister of the Interior, at the beginning of August was in Milano Marittima, in the now famous Papeete Beach, we were in the Senate working [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , also his parliamentarians, Senator Salvini, and we were approving the law that re-introduces the teaching of civic education into schools. However, in order not to deny (at least in this I recognize a certain consistency), he decided to put an end to this experience of government from the Stadio del Mare in Pescara. A week has passed, it is August 8th, when we heard ourselves say - literally words - that it was absurd for Members and senators to think of taking vacations in Ferragosto: we had to raise what had to get up and go to Parliament. Dear Salvini, we were already in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where were you and where have you been? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are all aware that the presence of ministers in this Chamber is always reduced because of institutional commitments, its does not deny the data that in fact stop at 1.29%, but at the same time we find that its presence in the Ministry has also been reduced: about ten days a month. In short, dear Salvini, we have the doubt that you were around beaches and squares campaigning at the expense of taxpayers already before. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Looks like she planned everything. So, what I want to do today is explain why: it is something that escapes us, but even more to the Italians; the Italians who are justly enjoying a bit of relaxation after a year of work, who has the job. Many since this year have had it thanks to the Decree-Law-Dignity approved by this Government, which has allowed to increase employment by splashing it to 59.2%, the highest figure since 1977. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those who are on vacation think of resting, certainly not - rightly - the lewdness of some politician who might put an increase in catastrophic VAT on his head when the holidays return. I have heard great quotations, including that of the Minister of the Interior of Virgilio, who, however, mistranslated it, while I remain much more populist and I quote an old wise woman, my grandmother, who always said that a politician, when he wants to make a scumbag, does it in Ferragosto or when he plays the national team. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, the national team doesn't give us any particular joys at this time, so only Ferragosto remained to her and here's what she did: a real scumbag to the detriment of the country and of all Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For months we have heard Italians say first in the sense of first Italians, now instead it is first Salvini, first his oversized ego, the results of the European elections, the polls that press. Salvini wants to go to the government; Salvini, you are already in the government or maybe we should say there was; only instead of working you chose to blow everything up, but in the name of what? Trying to rule again? This time with who, Salvini? With Berlusconi? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the nos he complained so much about from his stages were our nos to his scumbags, the ones he probably wants to realize with the next government. Ours were the noes to Berlusconi, the Benettons, the Aratas. But ours was a government of yes, yes to change and do for citizens; it was a government that could last five years. We had a contract, we had a project, and it was a change project. Is the change for you to go back with Berlusconi? Eh! This takes a break. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This, Salvini, is a government that has worked: we have approved (just a few provisions) the corrupt sweep law, the income of citizenship, 100 quota, the decree-law growth, the unblocking of yards, the elimination of vitalities, the compensation for the scams by the banks, the code red. The only great no, my dear colleagues, came from Salvini and it was a no to the future; a no to prevent the increase in VAT, a reform of justice, a commission of inquiry into banks, the cutting of parliamentarians [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the social rights, the opportunities of our children. After a crazy, incredibly crazy move, Salvini made us attend an absurd theater. On the day of August he turns back and says that it is not true, that he never told Count that he wanted to pull the plug, so maybe that motion of distrust that is still filed here in the Senate we dreamed of it. BITI (PD). He pulled it out. TAVERNA (M5S). Then back to the front; magic, another change, great Salvini! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Salvini]] Then again in front: on August 18 he returned to ask for elections. Don't worry - I tell the Italians - it is not your fault if all this seems incomprehensible to you; don't worry if it seems crazy or absurd because it is: it is madness and absurdity! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a government crisis launched by the beach, it is to want to throw the country in the provisional exercise for a selfishness, it is to send it to the macero what we have done so far, to put at risk the income of citizenship and quota 100; it is to interrupt all the reforms that we were going to achieve. 7.40 p.m. (Taverna followed). What maybe Salvini hadn't reckoned is that someone in the country would think about it, that someone that sense of responsibility he put under his feet would instead honor him. The 5 Star Movimento is not afraid of its crazy scenarios, because we continue to maintain the same seriousness, the same sense of responsibility and the same honesty with which we ruled for a year together with you, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And we can count on a President-in-Office of the Council who, with the same responsibility, has taken the fate of the country and of a government on his shoulders, and I am now addressing you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am sure that, left behind Salvini and with the full trust of the Movimento 5 Stars, you will be able to make the best choice. Dear Salvini, you have had your moment of glory. He tried to take the scene, monopolizing politics for 12 days. And to do so he was willing to drag the country into a very difficult situation, first and foremost from an economic point of view. And under the ethical and moral, I prefer not to inflame. On dignity, however, let me spend a little word. A short time ago, in this House, you said that you and your ministers are not afraid to lose the chair. I ask you, why didn't you? Why didn't you resign? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] She, who calls herself Captain, had only the arrogance and the unawareness to abandon the ship. Well, the Italian ship of captains like you does not need. [[Long-term applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u75	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u76	Mr President, on ships, as you all know, the seizure of the Open Arms has been arranged, giving the opportunity to land. Salvini said he was willing to take another trial this time. I wonder what trial he's ever had. Evidently, today, the brave captain always begins to realize that perhaps the season of impunity and immunity has ended. I turn to the President-in-Office of the Council to tell him that we have given him credit, even with the speeches made earlier by President Grasso, Senator Errani and the other senators, for the fact that he rightly wanted - and he did well - to parliamentaryize the crisis, coming to this House to make his communications, as was right, on television. All Italian citizens were thus able to understand and also participate in this debate. You wanted to parliamentaryize the crisis, in the name of parliamentary democracy. I repeat what I said last week: this is a parliamentary Republic, where the Presidents of the Council are not elected, as I have heard from the Brothers of Italy Group. In Italy there is no premierate and the Presidents of the Council are not elected directly. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Parliamentary democracy has precise rules, first of all of transparency, and this debate is taking place in complete transparency. President Conte, you spoke of many constitutional values and - I repeat - we appreciated that, as we appreciated some of your passages. Of course, you know how many times, even in the past, when you came to this House, we would have liked you to take on more of the burden of fully defending parliamentary democracy, constitutional values, rules and the culture of the rules. We've told you this many times, but here the usual repertoire has been aired. Dear Salvini, perhaps you have taken this House for one of your many meetings, as one of the last you have done, in which you have given us the usual repertoire, seasoned, once again, of offense. Whoever is a believer, in fact, does not feel exalted by her, but feels deeply offended, whenever she exploits religion! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] He thought he'd come here with the usual rally. Now is the announcement that you have withdrawn the motion of no confidence and you do not understand what you want to do. What is clear is that you have cultivated the dream of becoming the master of Italy, other than freedom and sovereignty of the people. He tried to do a plebiscytic operation. And we have already seen at work what constitutional legality means to you. It's all less what you've done in these months, in which you led the Ministry of the Interior. The call from the Minister of the Interior to the squares and the invitation to keep mobile phones on: what does that mean? That means you don't know what our Constitution is and constitutional legality. I would also like to address my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars: President Conte at a certain point you said that this experience is over; we need to take responsibility today, but we also need to make it clear what the change of pace can be, what Italy needs and, in order to do this, there is parliamentary democracy. On the contents, on what Italy needs and if it is possible to build a way out of the crisis for the interest of the country, we must confront ourselves. There are so many issues, there is not only the question of securing accounts. We forgot we're in the middle of a climate emergency. We must face an emergency that can also be an opportunity because it means relaunching investments in the circular economy, for the security of the territory, for environmental care and for the energy transition. Did you listen to Salvini? I ask my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars how they did it. Once again we came to tell the fairy tale that we extract oil, to revive even the drills. Is this the vision of modernity? We must put another vision on the ground, another modernity because the country needs it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you referred to the second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution; the Republic removes all obstacles to the free expression and implementation of the country's men and women. This means that inequalities are here, in front of us and are becoming more pronounced; on all this, on the great social issue, we have to take action and we have the opportunity to work on them. This means that the road is very narrow, but the decision-maker is within Parliament. It is here that we confront, we reason and we understand if it is possible, in the interest of the citizens and the citizens of the country, to give the possibility not of a small agreement, but of being able to find a way that puts our country back on the road and really marks a turning point. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u77	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u78	Mr President, Mr Conte may recall that when he came to ask for confidence in this House, having included some general and minimal notes in the programme concerning the issue of Italians abroad, we had spoken to wish her good work. Unfortunately, a year and a half later, among the various things that you have been able to quote that have been done by your Government, there is not one that concerns Italians abroad, because in reality the majority that supported your Government was the most hostile, from an institutional point of view, to the interests of Italians abroad, of the history of the Italian Republic. Briefly: there are 6 million subscribers to the Anagraphe of Italian residents abroad (AIRE); the 6 millionth will be registered in a few days. This is more than 10% of the Italian population. To these you would have reserved the abolition of the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad, established by the Berlusconi Government and maintained by the three legislatures prior to this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For the first time, the only Commission dedicated to Italians abroad has been abolished by this majority. You have set up a survey of Italians abroad that the unfortunate Presidency of the Foreign Affairs Commission has baptized as a sign of attention; a survey of 10% and more of the Italian population. A veritable offense that all of us Italians abroad have perceived as such. With the reform of the number of MPs, you would have reserved 4 senators for the representation of 6 million people. Well, there is no elective assembly in the world that has four elected representatives of 6 million people. This violates the principle of democratic representation which - you, Professor, know it better than I do - is one of the supreme principles of the constitutional order. In fact, we were preparing an appeal to the Constitutional Court because, according to Judge Cartabia and especially to the judgment of President Casavola, we believe that this violation would not pass the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. You promised 350 new officials for the Consulates, but no one saw them. You have excluded citizens abroad from the income and pension of citizenship and from 100; you have doubled the official times (from twenty-four to forty-eight months) for the examination of citizenship practices; you have changed the code of the road with regard to foreign plates, with very serious damage to the family members of the AIRE, the borderers and seasonales. I mean, you did everything you could to offend Italians abroad and violate their rights. We are happy that this experience of government is at the end and, like Forza Italia, consistent with what we have always done, we will always be here to protect the interests of Italians abroad. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u80	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is a complicated and important day for the country. We are living - allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - with satisfaction the conclusion, which you announced in your communications, of this experience of government. We recognize them - we have always done so - their availability and institutional respect, confirmed today. However, we have always strongly supported a policy different from that which your Government has pursued in the economic, social, rights and consideration of parliamentary democracy and institutions. We have also always criticized you, your government and your majority to act improperly against the country. All too often, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have pretended to be a majority and opposition and to have a very strong dialectic, but then you have always voted together for the wrong measures for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In a nutshell, our negative judgment can be summarized in this way: our view is that you have not made the interest of the national community, you have not put the work, development, the future for our country and the new generations at the center of your government action. This is a serious responsibility that you have. You made an attempt, which today proclaims its failure. And he claims it in a slightly original way. A few days ago, in this very Chamber, you put your trust in a measure - yet another wrong one - which does not guarantee the safety of Italians and, indeed, puts them at risk. You have, however, presented yourselves in this Chamber. After a few days one of the two central forces of this majority - the League - presents an instrumental motion of distrust, after a long period of forced election campaign by your Vice Premier. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps a brake should have been placed on this way of making policy and understanding politics and institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am referring to allowing your Vice-Premier to come to the Chamber to give lectures on work (on this I would allow myself to have many questions regarding the experience of the Vice-Premier), or to adopt an attitude that is always hostile to the parliamentary debate, an attitude that is always negative and provocative, of total absence from its institutional duties. If Vice-Premier Salvini has distinguished himself for a fundamental coherence in his behaviour in the European Parliament, the Italian Parliament and the Viminale: that of not being there [[Applause from the PD Group]] , never to go there. Perhaps you, President Conte, should have put a brake on it. Then there are very serious things for us, which you have rightly reminded us, and I give you this and I appreciate it. It is an appreciation of a late act, but there is appreciation. The Vice-Premier has done something very serious, which has no precedent in our country, which goes clearly against our Constitution: when he was asked to report on a specific subject, he refused with determination to come to the Chamber to report to the Senate and to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must remember this and I have already told Senator Salvini: I do not know at all whether he has criminal responsibilities in relation to the links with Russia, to the affarucci that have been sought, to the supposed bribes, if there are any. I do not know and it is not my job to say so, but he had a duty to inform the country and Parliament and he did not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is extremely serious. It is of unprecedented seriousness, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Then there is the last battle, as he clearly said, that is to get to have full powers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the memory and concerns of each of us with regard to these words must not be evoked, because they are obvious, but the intimate concern of every Member of Parliament is there, it is strong and there is rightly also within the majority. All this until today, in which we talk about sovereign and authoritarian mechanisms and in which he comes to explain that trust is not achieved by force. So what is it, if not an act of force, with which Minister Salvini tried to impose times and ways to maximize the result, in the interest of part and not in the interest of the country? [[Applause from the PD Group]] When we are elected, when we become parliamentarians, what sole duty does each of us have but that - respecting our own culture, tradition and politics - to make the interest of our country? You see, Mr President, there is a serious Italy, which works with confident patience, an Italy which has had so many difficulties in recent years and which expects much from politics. It is an Italy that works for the present and for the future and that has been humiliated by this year and about three months of Government and in particular by the attitudes of Minister Salvini, who has even been forgotten of the institutional dignity, which is proper of a Minister of the Interior. Then there is Italy of the fight, of the violence, for now only verbal - and we hope that it remains there - of the irrational ways and drives against the interest of our country. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then there's the physics of social centers! Mr Marcucci (PD). There is Italy, instead, that is ready to take responsibility for its responsibilities, there is Italy that is ready to talk to the country, to think about work, to think about the future, to seriously confront. We hope that from today we will speak to that Italy, with those tones and with those priorities. The Democratic Party is ready to do so and to do so seriously, safeguarding Italians - we truly Italians - our community and our future. We want to confront each other, to defend Italy from the damage you are causing. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u81	Senator Patuanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by thanking President Conte, both emotionally and rationally. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mine is an emotional thank you because it is undeniable that in these fourteen months of government you have managed to create a great bond certainly with our parliamentary group, but also with the country (of which today's demonstrations are a plastic demonstration). I would also like to thank you rationally because, thanks to your work, your rationality and your ability, you have brought Italy back to the centre of Europe and with your ability and your mediation you have always allowed this majority to walk, except perhaps in the last few weeks, in the wake of that government contract - an element on which I will return later - born for the sense of responsibility of two political forces that have always been different and had reasons for tension. Thank you so much, then. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would also like to thank you for another element: you have managed to snatch the theme of the parliamentary crisis from the tweets, from the meetings and from the beaches and you have brought it here, where it has to be, in the classrooms where you have to talk about politics, where you make politics and where you deal with these issues, also of the crisis of government. You have often used a speech that has struck me in recent months, that is, loyal cooperation, often mentioning the need for it. I want to make these words my own, as I have been trying to do over the past few months as a leader, passing them on to the Group, because I have always tried to maintain loyal cooperation in my relations with the other political groups. Today, that perhaps the roads of the two majority forces that supported this Government are spreading, I can say that that loyal cooperation has also been between the parliamentary groups and I thank the League's parliamentary group for the work we have done in these fourteen months. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Minister Salvini, I am looking for you in both of your armchairs, because I don't see you, but you will certainly listen to me: you spoke for twenty-five minutes about Italy in 2050, about what it was, about what it will be and about relations with the square, but you didn't say the only thing we were waiting to hear to understand. Why did you want this government's crisis? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We wanted to hear this from Mr Salvini's words, because I heard some political twists in the statements made immediately after the speech, in which it is said that there is one pulling the plug on itself, on the part of the President of the Council himself. I believe that we are talking about the acts, the initial press release of 8 August, indeed, before that, the private conversation with the President-in-Office of the Council, about which he told us, and the motion of distrust, which has been withdrawn today, but I would say that it is a little late, since you wanted to schedule it on 14 August: it is therefore clear who opened this crisis, on this there are no words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I will try, then, to understand the reasons for this, trying to interpret from the facts the reasons for this crisis. I can't help but start on March 4: I remember that in this country the general elections took place on March 4, 2018 and not on May 26, 2019 (those were European elections). I remember that in those general elections the Movimento 5 Stars gathered a broad consensus and that - although perhaps sometimes we forgot - here, as well as in the House, it is the relative majority group and it is almost twice the second most represented group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And because you voted an electoral law with the Democratic Party -- that's another fact -- that we didn't vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , that political result did not allow us to govern ourselves and we made a gesture of great responsibility, on which we then had your loyal cooperation. We have proposed a working method, that of the government contract, to the German, which has returned today, but it is not an invention, but a proposal that Minister Di Maio made to the country and to all political forces. We worked in that furrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have worked with many tensions and difficulties, dealing with issues that often divided us, but we have always done so in the interests of the citizens and thinking about what we had written in that contract. I don't go back to all the things we've done together, President Taverna has already talked about it, many have talked about it in here better than I could do it today, but I don't deny everything we've done and I'm proud of what this government has been able to do in fourteen months, which is much more than what's been done in the previous 20 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In these fourteen months we have never beaten our fists by saying that we were 107 and you were less and you had to table fewer amendments, do less measures or schedule less things. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have always carried out this contract on the basis of the loyal cooperation mentioned several times by the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So what happened? It happened that on 26 May there was an election, certainly not a political one, an election for the European Parliament, and then someone started banging their fists, wanting to dictate the political agenda of this Government, wanting to mention issues that had nothing to do with the government contract. Let me just give a small example, that of incinerators: are we talking about Italy in 2050, about development, about circular economy, about green economy and we are still talking about incinerators? That element isn't in the government contract. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was this attitude, this continuous raising the level of tension that has led to today, because you want full powers. I understand that in some way we want to monetize an electoral success achieved in another competition and we want to try to turn to the citizens to realize it here too. What I understand a little less is to turn to Silvio Berlusconi on August 10 to try to make an electoral agreement, which I find harder to understand. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The theme of this August crisis is not the question of holidays: I have been a professional for almost twenty years and the words holiday and holidays remind me of something but I don't know exactly what they are, we have always been in here, we have always worked in the interests of citizens and we have always tried to do the good of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The subject is that since the European elections you have started looping to say that we are the ones of the no, but I believe that you are the ones of the boh today, because I do not understand exactly what your proposal is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I cannot understand the point of tabling a motion of no confidence, requiring its calendarization and then withdrawing it. I can say, however, that we have always thought of putting the citizens' interests before us. The collective interest of the country is the lighthouse that has always guided the political action of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That will also be the case on this occasion. I believe that maybe after the European elections someone gave us to die, many times you gave us to die, a little everyone in here. You probably did it too soon: we are the Movimento 5 Stars and we are not afraid to wake up in the morning and look at our faces. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are not afraid to turn again to the country and the people with the new elections. We are the 5 Star Movement and we are not afraid of anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u83	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u84	Mr President, I will make a brief reply, because the afternoon has been very difficult and also very long. Among the various issues you raised was immigration. I am not here to justify myself, I do not deny anything we have done: it is not my custom, it is not in my style and I take full responsibility for the actions of government. However, I would like to invite you - if we are talking about the government's immigration policy - to acknowledge, for the truth of the facts, that since the first meeting at the European Council (June 2018) - it was my first official speech in the European Parliament - I personally, representing this Government, brought a political platform consisting of six premises and ten objectives. Therefore, when we talk about the problem of immigration, please: give an act to this Government that has had the ability to face it in broader, more complex terms, with full knowledge of all its implications, starting from the relationship and cooperation with the Countries from where these traffics originate, to follow with the Countries where these routes transit, obviously with consideration for these reckless journeys of death on improvised boats. The problem of landing, however, as we know, is that which monopolizes almost all media attention to the West. Then there is the problem of redistribution, return, secondary movements and so on. If you have the goodness to recover that document, you will see that this Government has been responsible for a policy - we always said - of greater rigour in the knowledge that, as it had been managed up to that point, it had proved objectively no longer to be prosecutable, ineffective. Beyond the merits and political assessments, from a concrete, operational and practical point of view, it was no longer viable. Hence a policy of greater rigour on the assumption that an indiscriminate reception is tantamount to non-acceptance, denied reception. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, there are also strictly personal evaluations; each of us can make them, each of us has its own sensitivity. Personally, as a jurist, I also invite you to consider that the security-a decree was fired by the Council of Ministers in an original version which - I repeat - I personally tried to negotiate and presented an overall system which I still consider more coherent and balanced than the final version which was then legitimately modified in the context of the conversion by the sovereign Parliament. Again. I was also told: "President, but all these issues, why this late repentance or something?" I would like to clarify: no repentance. I would also like to clarify, if I have been misunderstood, that I have never done so and I still do not make it a personal matter between myself and the friends of the League, between myself and the Minister of the Interior Matteo Salvini, with whom today I will absolutely stop to have a chat and express my dissent on many issues, to tell him of my different sensitivity, as I have done in the past, on many issues. To confirm that it is not a personal matter, today I have reasoned on the culture of rules, institutional sensitivity and constitutional culture. And I invite you to consider, not to justify me - the fact that I am here to repeat these things - that on June 3, 2019 I, who am quite sober with the words, called for a press conference in which I invoked the concept of loyal collaboration and even declined it as an example with concrete examples. I quote just a few, very briefly. Each Minister must concentrate, through loyal cooperation, on matters of his own competence, without prevaricating and invading spheres that are not his/her responsibility, in order to avoid delegitimacy and overlaps that could compromise, in the future, not the honour, but the credibility of the entire Executive and the effectiveness of action of the entire Executive. A feature problem, then. Loyal cooperation means that if you have political issues of any kind to raise you do so by respecting institutional grammar, by speaking clearly to the President of the Council and to the other forces that make up the majority and not by sending ambiguous signals in the newspapers or by declaiming on social media. I was still saying that loyal cooperation means that when the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister for Economic Affairs are interlocating with the European institutions in order to pursue the fundamental objective of avoiding an infringement procedure, nobody intervenes from Italy to alter this delicate intercourse, reducing it to a further field of provocations and controversial claims, because this can compromise the negotiation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And at this conference on 3 June 2019, so a few weeks ago, I also said that loyal collaboration means these and many other things, all obvious, only that we really want to continue along the path of the Government of change, that is nothing more than the road - as I and I meant it - of the good policy that citizens have been calling for for years. Now, so, I don't wish I was misunderstood. I spoke little, but I did it because I declined that concept of loyal collaboration in terms of sobriety of words and industriousness in action. Therefore, loyal cooperation has prompted me to try to reserve these calls especially to the private and to avoid doing so in public. But as you can see, I did it in public. Why? Because loyal cooperation in my opinion, as I mean it, does not mean that the President of the Council participates in everyday political controversy and even feeds it with his public interventions. Now, let's get to the point and finish. The League has tabled a motion of distrust, it has called for its immediate timetable, it has called for elections immediately, it has even called for the direct support of the citizens in order to achieve this result. I am told by an agency that this motion would now be withdrawn. So, you see, let's go back to the love for institutions and the culture of institutions, which then -- attention -- represent citizens. So it's love for the citizens, let's not forget it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we love the institutions, if we love the citizens, we have a duty of transparency. This institutional transition is already very complicated and very complex in itself. We said it and you said it in the speeches: it is not frequent, indeed it never happened (perhaps there was a precedent, but I did not deepen it) that there was a Ferragostan crisis, because anyway we are close. It is not easy for the country to have a government that, instead of dedicating itself to developing an adequate and effective economic maneuver, is instead involved in an electoral competition. It's not exactly the same, but I see here that not everyone agrees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, we must agree on one point: if we love institutions and citizens, we cannot rely on devices, tactics and verbal twists that I find difficult to understand. Excuse me, but I am very linear: I appreciate logical consistency, I appreciate the linearity of action. If there's a lack of courage, don't worry, I'll take it in front of the country that looks at us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and I note that the leader of the Matteo Salvini League, who has returned here and I thank him, who after June 3 has struggled, in facts and concrete behavior, to grasp the meaning of the expression "loial collaboration", lacks the courage to assume responsibility for his behaviors. I met him twice: on August 7th, when he anticipated his determination very clearly and I invited him to give me the possibility of a meeting with the President of the Republic; he returned on August 8th and confirmed his determination, so much so that soon after there was a very explicit note in which he publicly denounced the crisis of government and called for urgent recourse to the ballot box. As I said, there's no problem. It is clear that the responsibility for a crisis bears its signature visible, but if it lacks political courage, there is no problem, I assume it. I believe that this is the conclusion, the only one, which is necessary, transparent, coherent and linear. Thank you so much for this attention, I go to the President of the Republic. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u85	Colleagues, you have heard from the words of the President of the Council that he will come to the Head of State. Therefore, pending the determinations of the President of the Republic, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 8.25 p.m. and resumed at 10 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u86	I have received the following letter from the President of the Council of Ministers: "Rome, 20 August 2019 Mr President, I have resigned today to the Head of State the resignation of the Cabinet that I chaired. The President of the Republic took note and invited the Government to remain in office for the handling of current affairs. Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-08-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-146.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 22.01 p.m.
