ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to inform the Presidency and the House that, in a letter delivered this morning, I asked the President of the Senate to bring in Minister Tria, following the European Commission's proposal to open an infringement procedure for an excessive deficit against Italy. I asked him to come and report urgently to the House on the actions of the Government, and I felt that it was appropriate for the whole House to be made aware of them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1248.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u8	Mr President, I was in the Budget Committee this morning, where the opinions on amendments 4.854 (text 2) and 4.430 were given the floor, but they need another half hour to express their views on Amendment 23.0.3. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Therefore, I would ask if a half hour of waiting would be possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u9	Is President Pesco in the Commission? Mr Santillo, rapporteur. Yes, he is trying to solve the issues related to the coverage of amendment 23.0.3. He asked for half an hour. (Senator Pesco enters the Chamber and goes to his place).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u10	Mr Pesco, I was informed that there would be a green light on the basically identical amendments 4.854 (text 2) and 4.430. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u11	Exactly, while on Amendment 23.0.3 we would need ten more minutes. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u14	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we are asking that this be the last time. Yesterday we attended the fair of amateurism and improvisation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bellanova.]] We have been very patient, perhaps too patient, oppositions, and I believe that the majority should have drawn experience and warning from what happened yesterday to present itself today with a resolved situation. The psychodrama of division within the majority cannot bounce back on the Assembly and on the whole country, as it has been happening for a year now. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] That's enough. Take half an hour, solve the problem, but don't make fun of us, Parliament and the country. There's nothing to laugh about, President Pesco. The situation is dramatic. Refellow with yourselves and produce something that has the dignity of this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u17	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I can only endorse the words of President Bernini, adding that we are also prepared to give half an hour, provided that a clear answer arrives and there are no jokes about the responsibility that government and majority must assume on the point, that is to say on Amendment 23.0.3 at the first signature of Senator Verducci. In fact, we are talking about an extraordinary theme such as the earthquake, in more than one even more extraordinary subthema, because we are talking about giving schools a chance with fewer pupils than the MIUR programming requires to remain open. So the earthquake itself is a superthema, but the school theme - as we know very well - is even more important. It has already been allowed in the past years. Mr President, I would also like to say that if it had not been your presence and your ability all day yesterday, for which we thank you, but only the Government and the rapporteurs, we would never have come out of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, yesterday we saw it in all its colors, including a curious intercourse between the representative of the Government and the President of the Budget Commission, who asked if it was really necessary to amend an amendment and subordinate to that the application of Article 81, which in reality has nothing to do with a substantial interest on the part of the Government. Among other things, a substantial interest on the part of the Government goes to delegitimize the full autonomy that the Budget Commission must have. All this happened yesterday. So, even because of this confusion, let us also allow ourselves the necessary time, but don't joke: you arrive in 15 minutes, 20 or 30 minutes to decide, as had been agreed by all political forces, that the Government has the responsibility to find a million and a little more euros for the purpose I mentioned earlier. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, since the time limit of 20 minutes has elapsed since the beginning of the sitting, as provided for in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed to the vote on amendment 4.854 (text 2) which is essentially the same as amendment 4.430.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u21	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of Mr Toninelli's presence in the Chamber to say that it is good that the position on the obvious error of expropriation of a fund which has been fed since 1998 by the members' renunciation of their profits has been reviewed. So, this is all right. The lengthening of the Brenner corridor, which we are in favour of, is also good. I would like to take this opportunity of your presence in the Chamber, Minister Toninelli, to say that if there is still a problem with regard to private partners, this has a solution, which is what your Government has accepted as a recommendation in the context of the examination of the so-called simplification decree, namely the overcoming of the issue of aggregation. In Italy alone, according to article 13- bis of the measure, it is expected that in-house companies should be fully public. The European directive applies throughout Europe, which you know - No 23 of 2014 - which has also been the subject of a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union, confirming that there is no need for in-house companies to be 100% public. Therefore, given that the presence of members on the Brenner Motorway is less than 14 per 100 (so much below the limits allowed by the directive), we proceed in this direction, approving the amendment and transposing into our legal system the European Directive No 23 of 2014. This is a simple road, legally established throughout Europe and flat, which - among other things - would also allow the following: since the next concession, which we hope will arrive as soon as possible, will provide for the non-distribution of profits for a very long period of time, it is also appropriate, in the interest of the State, for these private partners to participate in solidarity also during the non-distribution of profits. There's no point in liquidating them now. This is in the precise interest of the State. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u24	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, first of all we welcome the removal of the so-called 'proletarian expropriation' (i.e. the fund which was intended to be borne by the State). It is also okay to have defined the budget post from which to withdraw the money in order to carry out three very important works for the territory. There is still a doubt - a perplexity - that justifies our abstention. Will this law respect the requirements of the territory (in particular the A22)? Last night I made clear reference to the difficulty existing on the territory, in particular of the Province of Verona, for the realization of the interporto to Isola della Scala. A few meters - 20 kilometers above - there is a public interport, the Europa Quadrant, owned by Chamber of Commerce, Province and Municipality of Verona, which is the first in Europe. At a few tens of meters we realize a private interporto, that could determine a competition of which you do not see the need. Without an agreement, it is difficult to achieve that interport. The same is true of the streets. Without an agreement, the interporto to Isola della Scala becomes a cathedral in the desert, because currently the provincial roads that serve the locality of Isola della Scala are country and two lanes. In conclusion, while the elimination of the so-called expropriation is positive, there is concern about the absence of agreements. For these reasons, I would like to announce my Group's abstention vote on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u25	I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.854 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteurs, which is essentially the same as Amendment 4.430, tabled by Senator Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). President Pesco, we need EUR 3 million and EUR 750,000 and, therefore, the assumptions are two: either this sum is available in the fund or it is not. I suspend the session for half an hour, after which there will be no more room for further suspensions. (The sitting was suspended at 10.26 a.m. and resumed at 10.56 a.m.) The session is resumed. I invite colleagues to take their seats. I give the floor to President Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u26	Mr President, the further insights that have been carried out have been profitable because MIUR, MEF, Accounting and also our Offices can confirm that the calculation is correct, the resources envisaged are adequate and available and therefore we can overcome the previous opinion with a nullaosta.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr Pesco. We are all grateful. [[Senator Verducci points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Verducci, as far as the coverage is concerned, it occurred to me - although technically, probably, it would not hold up because we are talking about different funds - that if we have gone from 30 million to 10 thanks to the rewording of the rapporteur and in another case from 10 to 5, we would now have 25 million available. This is not a suggestion for spending amendments. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 23.0.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u30	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this amendment concerns crater schools and shows, in view of the positive opinion of the Budget Commission, that it is not improvisation or amateurism. It is confirmed and certified the will of the Government and the majority to give a further response to the municipalities of the crater. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I take the opportunity to reflect on the subject of the earthquake which touched on 20 articles of this measure and also to respond to the ingenious statements made by some colleagues yesterday. For example, Mr Pagano said that with regard to the earthquake of L'Aquila this majority did not give answers and instead gave them indeed, because already in the basic scheme of the decree had been allocated, for this year, 10 million euros to cope with the lower expenses and higher revenues of the municipality. We have even doubled this amount with another 10 million next year and have added some rules for the staff of the Eagle earthquake. We have also provided for a further extension of the deadline for the vexed question of State aid litigation, which is considered illegal by the European Union. For the third time this Government and this majority have requested and obtained an extension on which, I remember and mark it, undersecretary Giorgetti has already opened an intercourse with the European Commission. Link Verducci, this government and this majority are not immobile in the face of the issues of the crater communities. We didn't waste time fighting within the majority. If there is one theme that saw a joint action, it was precisely the one related to the earthquake communities. Since this government was established, in fact, this is the fifth measure that puts into effect considerable measures. Last year we inherited from you the decree-law Gentiloni Silveri, n. 55 of 2018, which was empty, and we filled it with content. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Other contents we have included them in the decree-law of extension of the terms of July, in the decree-law for Genoa of October and in the law of budget: these are many, many measures, dozens of measures, fiscal and not only. The 120-install heavy pay envelope has been brought to us, not to you; the extension of the urban free zone to 2020 has brought it to us and in this measure we also extend it to professionals. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We have approved rules on urban planning, such as the regularization of non-compliance, which you have opposed in the debate on the budget law and the decree-law for Genoa and which have instead been appreciated by all the communities of the crater, so much so that we have been asked to apply them also to municipalities outside the crater. Speaking of the measure now before us, there are many measures introduced, including some of them. The installation of temporary and removable dwellings is authorised, which the League had requested in October 2016. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a problem that has touched thousands of families and that, thanks to Grandma Peppina's determination, has arrived in Parliament and we have all solved it together. This measure contains many important measures. Certainly we tackle in a complete way the problem of the earthquakes of Catania and Molise, but on the subject of the earthquake of Central Italy - dear colleague Zaffini, who complained of the voidness of this provision - we allow the municipalities to be central, recognizing them the faculty to carry out the investigation directly for the light constructions (the B and the C) and, in the amending phase, we have also introduced the categories E-level L4. There is therefore the protagonism of the municipalities. Of course, yesterday we would have liked a further increase in the staff to be employed in the municipalities, but 200 more people than the 700 who already work at the special offices for the reconstruction are not a small thing; these 200 new recruitments will certainly contribute, along with other measures contained in the decree-law, to speed up the reconstruction. Of course, the action of this Government and this majority does not end here: this is the fifth measure; there will be others in the future. The commitment of the League and the 5 Star Movement will continue in favor of the many earthquake communities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u33	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, before I enter into the substance of the amendment at my first signature which the Democratic Party presented during its work on the draft law of conversion today under consideration (to which I shall refer later) to reply to Senator Arrigoni, because what it has just said to try to respond today to my speech yesterday in reality, in all these months of immobilism of this Government on the subject of the earthquake, has been contradicted by the repeated and continuous demonstrations of the associations, the citizens, the mayors of the crater. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , who have threatened on several occasions to return to the benches of the Government, in front of Palazzo Chigi, the band with our Tricolor. They did this not because they have time to lose, but because, President, time has long expired, in this month of immobility, in which, in addition to having done nothing concrete, you have a very serious political responsibility: to have completely deleted from the government's agenda the theme of the project, the strategy for the future of our internal areas of the Apennines. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It won't be enough to rebuild: you'll need projects that aren't here. The extension of the urban free zone has been mentioned, but it has not been said that the extension has zero resources. There's no extra euro. Decrees and provisions have been cited concerning the regulations of the Renzi and Gentiloni Governments of the last legislature, which continue today because it is necessary for them to do so. It has not been said, as I pointed out yesterday, that the pressing demands of the unified Conference of the Regions have been completely ignored. Today, in the face of this measure, we will still have many obstacles to face. But, Senator Arrigoni, I come to this amendment, which I think the whole Senate will be proud of when it votes shortly. In this regard, I would like to thank the Undersecretary of Crimes once again for his attention on this subject. Senator Arrigoni, if you wanted to unlock this issue, we would have had the solution already in the initial text of this provision. Instead, there was nothing on the schools. This theme of schools, in order to ensure that the staff are whole and that they do not close the schools of the small municipalities of the crater, came into question thanks to an amendment of the Democratic Party. Otherwise, Senator Arrigoni wouldn't have discussed it here! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude by saying that this amendment is so important because it speaks of the future and repeats a derogation that the MIUR had given since the last parliamentary term. There is a reconstruction of design. Schools represent cohesion and inclusion. Losing them would have been an unbearable defiance and disgrace. There is a symbolic value. We invest in schools to invest in the future of municipalities and territories where it is more difficult to stay, but that we want to live and that we cannot lose for the good of our country. Thank you, therefore, to all colleagues for the adoption of this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u36	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, by attitude, but also by the nature of the subject, when it comes to earthquakes, I always prefer to avoid propaganda tones and, if possible, seek the reasons for unity within this House, rather than the reasons for division, saying things as they are. First of all, I would like to stress that, within this measure, there are some provisions which have long been lacking and which have been highlighted by my colleague Mr Arrigoni. For the sake of truth - but it is a matter of style rather than substance - I must say that many of these provisions were contained in amendments tabled by the opposition, in particular by my Group. I have a chart on that. These proposals, rejected in the Commission, were then retabled by the Government with some minor variations and approved. At other times, in the face of similar situations, it was made possible for the proposers to sign in some way under the majority amendment. It's a matter of style, but since we're talking about themes that would need a unified approach, perhaps in this case style is not entirely secondary. What is worth, however, is the substance. The money to the municipalities was given, as well as the taxes were extended. On the other hand, I would be much less triumphal, and I would not minimize, as far as the staff problem is concerned. I am well aware that this is a more complex knot. If, however, we want to see things as they are, what is needed has not been done on this issue and the offices will be in the same difficulties as they were before this measure. I say all this because I believe that this House should make a common commitment to tackling this problem; otherwise, especially with regard to the 2016 earthquake, we will proceed with times that are not compatible with the needs of the citizens, who in some cases are in incredible situations. Only a few days ago we saw in the square in Teramo the displaced citizens, who still live in the hotels of the city and have not received a location. I then take advantage of Mr Toninelli's presence to draw attention to another subject, which is not related to the amendment we are debating, but which is no less serious: I am referring to the tunnel under the Gran Sasso. Here, too, I have to admit that the scheme of the Commission has changed and changed for the better than the first version that was given to us. However, we still lack the resources and the seriousness of the installation, as far as offices are concerned, to ensure that this issue does not become a real emergency in a short time. I am perfectly aware that, from the media point of view, the topic of the tunnel under the Gran Sasso has a minor incidence compared to that of the reconstruction of the bridge of Genoa; but, logistically speaking, as the collapsed bridge blocks the connection between two parts of the city, the tunnel can block the connection between the coast and the internal zones and, what is more important, it can block the connection between those that were two national tragedies, the earthquake of 2009 and the earthquake of 2016, regarding which everything is needed except for further isolation. Anyone with memory knows that, for an insufficient installation, they have already put their hands on this matter, with the intervention of the Superintendence then - and I shall finish now, Mr President - without a solution being found. Today we are faced with an aggravated problem, we have no guarantee of the aquifers under the tunnel and we are seriously in danger of persevering in this situation. In order to be able to take action seriously, we need to review the resources available to those who take responsibility, rethink the composition of the offices and put the Commissioner whoever he is, in a position to effectively address the problem. I open and close a parenthesis: just as none of the then-majority has the right to refer to what was done during the 2016 earthquake, we must also say, honestly, that the current Commissioner is a sort of ghost, that we do not see and that he does not even respond to the requests for appointment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Commission may be indirectly responsible for this, because, compared to this and only to this, the previous government probably has a few more assets than the current one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u39	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I too agree with what Mr Quagliariello has said, namely that it is preferable on this subject, ladies and gentlemen, to keep the tones as cooperative as possible, and therefore to keep them as low as possible. However, it must be pointed out that this is a particular reconstruction. As a regional councillor of Umbria, being Umbria (my Region) a bit unlucky from the point of view of seismic events, I have seen three reconstructions. Well, never before, as on this occasion, has there been such a serious delay in the so-called heavy reconstruction, that is, when, after the phase of the emergency, it was necessary to put hand to the reconstruction of the houses in order to bring the citizens back into their homes. We have never verified that only 500 practices had been approved three years later in Umbria and that 101 were operational. The times, Mr Arrigoni, are the same if we transfer from the USR (Special Office for Reconstruction) to the municipalities: the timing of the formalities does not change. A detailed timetable has been distributed, I repeat, for hours and half days: if there is no staff, the fact of transferring the obligations from the USR to the municipalities is an exercise absolutely fantasy. The 200 additional people are 1.3 per municipality, excluding the USR, so nothing changes compared to the timing. The last practice in Umbria - region of which I know the numbers - will be analyzed in fifteen, sixteen years, is a fact, it is numbers. It is true that since the beginning of the legislature we have spoken of earthquakes many times in various measures, but it is also true that from the beginning an organic measure was promised entitled to earthquakes. We owe it to the citizens, who interface with the State, who must respond in a serious, credible and unique way, but this is not happening. It is clear that the 200 resources put in place are not sufficient. Today a series of microproblems has been solved, but the big, real node is to fire the practices. The reconstruction of this earthquake is self-financed, as you well know, through the tax credit. The state must not put money in it, but availability, readiness and ability to synthesis and the only resource that it must make available is the people who are responsible for investigating the practices. We have hired, you have hired and you promise to hire the navigators: hire the technicians who have to process the practices to give course to the reconstruction. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u40	Colleagues, I would ask you to take your seats, having to proceed to the vote on the last amendment. I am filling a gap because, for the first time in the debate on the earthquake, you have forgotten Grandma Peppina to whom I wish and a kind memory go. (Some Senators of the League Group indicate Senator Arrigoni.) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.0.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senate unanimously approved. [[Live, prolonged, general applause.]] Before moving on to the final explanations of vote, I would remind everyone that the discussion of the motions on Radio Radicale is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u43	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in announcing that the Group for the Self-Government will vote in abstention, which is motivated by the adoption of the safeguard clause for special self-governments, I would like to thank the majority for their sensitivity to our autonomy. From our point of view, the suspension of certain parts of the procurement code is not negative, but we believe that shadows are more than lights in this measure. Italy suffers from two serious diseases: bureaucracy and the lack of legal certainty. The measure should have pushed on this, because it is not only a question of unblocking the yards, but of encouraging private individuals and also foreign funds to invest in Italy. As self-employed, we had tabled a series of amendments that went in this direction, common sense measures at zero cost that were born from the comparison with operators in our territories. Unfortunately, our proposals, like most of the others that have been examined in the Commission, have not been accepted. I am especially sorry for a proposal that we made at the first signing of Senator Durnwalder, but also made by colleagues from Forza Italia and also by the majority, about firefighters for certain simplifications on procurement that were very important and that we considered very useful. Once again, despite the commitment of the rapporteurs and all the members of the Commission, the work has been bumpy, spoiled by a political conflict that has not fostered the search for overall quality. For this majority it has become a modus operandi which, however, deprives the Commissions of their prerogatives, does not give them that serenity in order to be able to calmly examine all the proposals and examine them on their merits. Sometimes I also feel sorry for the Presidents of the Commission, who too often have to act as lightning rods (I refer first of all to the Budget Committee). Parliament cannot, therefore, perform that function of effective improvement which the decree-laws almost always require, particularly when it comes to such complex matters. We've been denouncing this way for months. We thought that after the budget law, net of the fibrillations within the majority, a new way of working would be established, as the President of the Republic also wished in the message of the end of the year, but the music unfortunately did not change. This way of doing has not led to virtuous synthesis, but almost always to messy compromises and all this is aggravated by the constant insertion of norms that distort the measures, until giving the feeling of having in front of omnibus measures or a thousand extensions. Now the majority say if the winds of crisis are overcome or if that of these hours is the classic calm that precedes the storm, say how it wants to respond to Europe, whether there will be an adjustment manoeuvre and where resources will be found; tell how it wants to build the next budget law; tell how it intends to sterilize the safeguard clauses; say above all what its policy will be to counter the economic stagnation in which our country has fallen. In fact, two decree-laws, although we also have positive elements, are certainly not the answer. We need a clear policy of direction, which has so far been lacking and which has neglected the demands for intervention and attention that came from the productive world. There is no more time to waste, as you have all said in the past few days. Then we agree with you, but let us move from words to deeds, because on these issues Italy is firm, not from the election campaign, but from the beginning of the legislature. We wait, but above all it is Italy that waits [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator De Bertoldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including San Pietro in Casale di Galliera, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I immediately announce the vote against by the Senators of LEU and many others of the Mixed Group on a measure that has seemed very dangerous to us from the outset. I have to say that in the same work as the Commission, for those parties which were certainly more sensitive, it was absolutely not intended to take into account, if not at all, the issues, the problems of the proposals put forward by the opposition. But until this point, we're still in the ordinary. The problem is that once again the measure under discussion and the work of weeks and weeks within the Commission have become the subject of yet another psychodrama, of yet another operation made of provocations, steps back and then mediation to which the majority has now accustomed us. All this, among other things, causing once again a great damage not so generic to the country, but not fully understanding - and not even at the beginning - the real issues from which to start Italy and on which it is absolutely necessary to set priorities. Let us be clear: yesterday, among other things, I also put the issue of climate change in the debate. Do you really think that changing the rules every year - this is what we are talking about - will unlock the yards? Do you really think that, after all the work done on the code of contracts (not by chance, as Senator Nencini rightly said yesterday, in a first phase there is a block, because you have to get used to the new rules), the best choice is to call everything into question again, with effective sentences, as did the maxi amendment of the League, getting to announce the suspension of the code of contracts? However, it was not even so, because it has been further changed. I do not think - and we shall see in fact - that these rules will produce anything in terms of speeding up work. The problem here is not generic contracts and generic works, but understanding what we re-impose the priorities of intervention from the strategic point of view of the country. What are the necessary and priority works: this was absolutely necessary to prepare. Instead, you do an operation that I find incredible, with article 4, with which it is precisely expected to appoint extraordinary commissioners and establish that the rule of the country becomes the derogation, because you give extraordinary commissioners an incredible power and above all a power to derogate from the laws, with everything that this means in our country. I see the rapporteur here, Senator Faggi. I was uncertain whether to make today the exterminated list of everything that has been the problem of corruption and Tangentopoli on the various works and contracts: this was our problem. In order to do this, it was not necessary to loosen the rules, as instead you do with the unblocking, even establishing as a rule on the works that you will decide (then arrive also on this) the extraordinary commissioner, who becomes a contracting station and has the power to derogate from the laws without even motivating it, as was the minimum request made by the amendment of President Grasso, with which at least it was required to justify all the derogations. Do an operation that will take us to a very dangerous field, because we've seen it before. On the issue of priorities, an amendment by Senator Margiotta was approved which partially limits the damage, but the problem is always there: it is to understand where we reposition the possibility of development of the country and what are the indispensable works, so much so that the discussion had to focus on this. That would have been necessary for the country. My Group and I are absolutely convinced that the priority works for our country, also from the strategic point of view, are the great work of safety, transport and mobility. On that we will also have to reposition ourselves in order to reduce emissions, start a transition and significantly modify our development model. If we had had had a serious discussion about that and had the decree refocused on that, look at the fact that today, as it happened in the debate on the budget law, you would not be faced with the threat of an infringement procedure for excessive debt. If you had presented a strong project and investment plan in Europe, refocused on ecological conversion and security as a strategic axis, things would have gone differently and we would not have found you today as a majority and the country in this situation. There are other worrying elements in the unblocking measure. Mediation was found on subcontracting - 40 per 100 - but the attempt was that, for once using Europe, because we have the infringement procedure on the issue of subcontracting, to liberalise everything and have free hands. We know perfectly well - how do you not know? - that there have been the biggest problems of the infiltration of organized crime on the sub-contracts themselves. There was the biggest problem in the area of safety at work, of which you have completely forgotten. And then there was a great return, a triumph. I know that you ruled in the age of the objective law - I am addressing the Legist senators - and so you are obviously nostalgic about that other great failure, which has brought so much damage to our country. What do you do? Put back on the altar what we thought was finally and totally out of date, namely the integrated contract. There had been a great deal of work and, also based on the failures of the objective law and the integrated contract (and on the problems created), an attempt had been made to establish the independence of design, in the name of quality and transparency. With you, however, the integrated contract is reconsecrated in the combined arrangement between the agreements you made at the last moment to reconcile you. You are proposing it as the main road, which will take you nowhere, because it will produce a huge problem from the point of view of quality and transparency. But how can you think that who does the project and realizes the work can focus on quality? Moreover, this will produce continuous and constant variants in the course of work (it is also what you established on the elimination of the executive project regarding the proceeding in the race). And then what do you do? Everything is called into question, starting with DAC guidelines. It is expected that within six months there will have to be a regulation, also with a view to changing and calling into question everything and relaxing the system of controls - this worked a lot in the issues that also concerned the integrated contract - and also abolishing the register of the directors of works and testers. What does this mean? I repeat again that it means that you go back to matters that have been largely overcome, but not for ideological reasons, because we had verified that they had delayed the work and created problems. The only way forward would be - yes - to make an investment plan and present a project here with the priorities of the works, resources and investments. Instead, you take a dangerous road for the country, which will unlock nothing, once again putting us before judicial investigations and loosening and questioning the quality, the time of realization of the works and safety in the yards. For all these reasons, if it is not understood, we shall vote against this measure. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u50	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group has followed with particular attention the debate on the decree-law, whose conversion we are discussing and which we are preparing to vote on. First, in the Council of Ministers, and then - in the long weeks of waiting also in the Commission (I am referring to the pre-election weeks), I had a lot of curiosity about a decree that was pompously defined - journalistically, but not only - unblocking, which made the pair with his twin, the growth decree. According to the intentions of the majority, the two measures had to be the two engines of revival of the country's economy (an obviously necessary relaunch, since the financial manoeuvre approved only a few months ago was obviously not able to guarantee the same recovery on its own). Beyond that, expectations were really very strong. The decree-law by its nature, is urgent and this was called urgent, but we note that it arrives at the approval of the Senate in June, almost at its natural expiry, foreseen by law. We were very curious because we wanted to understand, after the very heated disputes and controversy within the majority, which we witnessed during the election campaign, how they could live together the culture of development, both industrial and general, of colleagues of the League with that of the Movimento 5 Stars. In fact, we remember well, because we listened to them with our own ears in this House, the very strong statements of some members of the Movimento 5 Stars, for example, against the establishment of extraordinary commissioners, whom they had defined as incubating gestures of lawlessness and corruption and which, instead, also return to the norm and, perhaps, we will talk about it from here a few minutes. We wanted to understand what would happen to the amendment announced by the League and then withdrawn for technical reasons, but clearly for political purposes, linked to the headquarters of the TAV, in the sense that the TAV must be carried out and that it cannot be expected further. With my colleague De Bertoldi we have also tried to relaunch the theme of drilling, the energy autonomy of this country, the energy future that Italy wants to face, but we have not received any answers. In our opinion, therefore, the decree-law that we are about to convert represents a lost opportunity or used only in part, because we do not want to deny that some progress has been made, but overall it was entirely permissible to expect something more. That the result is a little disappointing and a little 'the result of a compromise to the bottom does not say the undersigned or the Gruppo Fratelli d'Italia, but put it in white by the main Italian party, as well as the main party of the majority, the League, which filed an amendment signed by Senator Pergreffi, which in fact revolutionized the entire plant approved by the Commission. This meant - everyone understands this - that the one who left the Commission was a weak, insufficient and probably wrong measure. The amendment of the colleagues of the League, which we have analyzed in detail, was certainly provocative in some respects, for others perhaps unenforceable, but in many respects also courageous, because it gave the feeling that we finally moved from theory to practice, from words to facts and that the code of contracts, which is the origin of so many problems in this country, could finally revolutionize deeply. We know, however, how it ended: there was the majority meeting, the pull and drop and, in the end, they took three or four steps forward, and then quickly made two or three backs. There are, therefore, many aspects that are critical to us, some doubts and some proposals that unfortunately have not been received. The main criticality, in our opinion, remains that linked to the fact that almost nothing is affected the myriad of norms that involve every work, small or large, public or private (but above all private in this case), which make of a slowness exasperating every realization. I am talking, for example, about the authorization phases of the works, but also about the lengthening of the deadlines for banning, evaluating, approving, signing the contract, payments, testing, certification and so on. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that the EUR 150 billion, which is often talked about, allocated by the Italian Government and by European funds allocated and not committed, all this mass of money that could have a multiplier effect in terms of investment, will not, if not a small part, be touched on by the measures you are about to approve. This is demonstrated by the fact that you have chosen the path of the Commission, as if to say that the ordinary rules, even in the light of the changes you are about to approve, will not be able to guarantee those bureaucratic accelerations that everyone expected. I would also point out, in order to keep track of this in the debate, Mr President, that the reform of Article 80 of the Procurement Code provides for the possibility for the contracting station to exclude a small entrepreneur who may have a small dispute over tax and contributory defaults. This is a rule, in our opinion, deeply wrong and unjust, because it does not allow small entrepreneurs who are not thieves, but are people in difficulty, to access contracts and to pay with the money of contracts the debts they have with the treasury. We urge you once again, even if it is out of time, to review this rule, because it penalises people who only want to work and pay their debts, but who will not be able to work, nor pay their debts, especially against the treasury. I would also like to point out that, with Mr Zaffini, with a majority amendment, but in any case a cross-cutting amendment, it was proposed to set up a fund, partly financed by auction rebates, to give guarantees to the subcontractors of the Umbrian motorways, of Ancona-Perugia in particular, who are likely to blow up, and it is not clear why the 5th Commission has lowered the cut-off of Article 81 on a measure that was self-financed and would have guaranteed more peaceful sleep or the certainty of survival for many subcontractors. Unfortunately, the so-called shipyard-saving fund will not be approved, and we are particularly sorry about that too. I shall conclude, Mr President, if I still have some time, with reference to the second part of the decree-law which dealt with the issues of the earthquake. On this, colleagues from those areas have said more detailed things than I can say, but it remains - and we want to say it very strongly - the fact that the first major construction site to be started in this country for reasons of economic utility, for reasons of dignity of the people and for reasons, I should say, even of an ethical nature, is the great construction site of the earthquake. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The great earthquake yard, however, cannot be started if the practices are not instructed and completed because there are no people who can instruct, videate and acquiesce, President. The 200 people you've hired are little. I remember that you have just allocated 200 million euros to hire 3,000 navigators, which in the future will be 10,000, for a law that has turned out to be a failure from the practical point of view and also from the electoral point of view: take the navigators and send them to Umbria, send them to Abruzzo to do something useful for this nation and not to waste time! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Two hundred million for the navigators you found them, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Also for this last reason - the time is unfortunately concluded - we will abstain on this provision. We had the hope that the House, at second reading, could improve it, but the times so short for the deadline make us understand that this will also be the final text and therefore our vote will, unfortunately, be an abstention vote. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u53	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we have taken this measure seriously without any obstructionist will. We have made speeches, we have tabled amendments on the method and we have tabled specific amendments on the substance, but it has not helped much. Mr President, in these weeks of debate on this decree-law we have often wondered why such a full-bodied measure, or rather, we have wondered whether there were reasons other than propaganda, the desire to have positive pseudo-reforms that are actually not there. We asked ourselves the question that Mr Margiotta asked yesterday: what is the point of this measure? What are you doing? You have explained to us that it serves the economy to speed up public works slowed down by bureaucracy and the new procurement code. But this motivation does not stand, first because the data of Cresme certify a 20 percent more works started in the first quarter of this year, which shows that it is not the code that restricts the infrastructural interventions in this country but if anything the lack of decisions from the Government: the story TAV is emblematic. You have blocked so many contracts in this country with a government contract that introduced the topic of cost-benefit analysis, which has surely slowed down the yards. Secondly, you are well aware that with this decree-law the times will be extended: 180 days are expected only to write the new implementing regulation and we know that it will not be enough and then we need new implementing and circular decrees. In addition, suspending certain rules for two years creates obvious uncertainties and this will help to slow down. There is a risk that the construction sites will be blocked, but they will be speeded up! Let it be clear, everything can be improved, but choosing to start over just as the new code was entering the regime does not help to create the regulatory certainty necessary to realize the works. So it is not true that it serves to unlock or speed up public works or interventions in earthquake areas. It's not about unlocking construction sites. A second reason that would be important to justify a measure like this could be the need to improve the quality of the works, their safety, to encourage interventions with a higher content of innovation and professionalism. In reality, allowed and not allowed that to this Government and to this majority this interest, also on these aspects we are very far from significant interventions, indeed, to widen the logic of the maximum decrease, or better price as you want to call it, to allow more subcontractings, to restrict if not to cancel the preventive checks on the requirements of the companies that participate in the races, are all choices that go in the opposite direction. We have been told by the same associations of companies in the hearing: these choices favour those who spend less, those who invest less in professionalism, in innovation, those who save on salaries and security costs. By the way, lower the level of professionalism by removing the sunrises. So this provision will not improve the quality of the works. Among other things, the multiplication of purchasing power stations, regardless of the qualification of the staff, will not help from this point of view either. In fact, this decree appears more like a dangerous ideological manifesto that wants to affirm a false principle: if you want to do the works and do them quickly you have to reduce the rules, the legal safeguards and those for the workers. The criminogen equation we talked about and talked about in this debate is: in the name of the realization of the works we must widen the meshes, deregulate. That this is happening is not just what we say, that is what the trade unions and all the environmental and anti-mafia associations said in the hearings last Tuesday in the square. It is dangerous to combine a reduction in the role of ANAC, a reduction in the maximum reduction, more subcontracting, fewer rules and less controls, money for job security that becomes the subject of competition instead of being separated and extraordinary commissioners who can be appointed when and how they want and who can act as a derogation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I don't see Senator Giarrusso, nor Senator Cioffi, but I remember, in the last legislature, when we were talking about Expo, ILVA or the earthquake, how many lessons we were given about the fact that there was absolutely nothing to do by way of derogation, that it was forbidden to act by way of derogation, that the derogations were an absolutely evolutionary and criminal fact. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we are giving the opportunity to set up Commissioners, without there being any reason for emergency, who can act as a derogation on everything. This is what you have done and this is not about unlocking anything. All this in a country where unfortunately there is still too much corruption, where criminal organizations penetrate the legal economy. In this country it is dangerous to explain that common sense is enough and to rely on the honesty of the majority or to argue that no longer need legal protection because with the corrupt sweep we have solved every problem. For us the real challenge was and is to reconcile transparency, legality and efficiency and this is done by reducing the areas of discretion that you open today. Senator Armando Siri - I want to remind you - when he was still Undersecretary, before the Movimento 5 Stars imposed his resignation, he argued that to revive the works in this country what was needed were not, as it would make sense to say, investments or clear political choices, but it was necessary to empty the role of the Anti-Corruption Authorities of Canton and cancel the Code of Procurement. Well, with this decree-law you did. You did it together, demonstrating that, beyond the game of the parties, this decree-law is the result of the yellow-green majority in solid. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The DAC was put aside, as Cantone said a few minutes ago presenting the report, and the procurement code was massacred. I do not believe that after this measure there will be more works or they will speed up; certainly there will be fewer guarantees of legality and fewer rights for workers. That is why we are voting against, not only by the opposition force, but also by the party concerned with what a rule, defined by so many criminals, will be able to produce little by little. But we will vote against it mainly because it will not help to restart the yards, which have been blocked not by the procurement code but by the government contract in recent months. There are 49 works decided, 50 billion euros blocked by political decisions of this Government, by a contract that blocked the TAV, introduced the cost-benefit analysis, forgotten to finance important works, such as, for example, the last lot of the Third Jupiter Pass. You have blocked the works and you have a solid responsibility for doing so and if you want to unlock them and not make propaganda, you do not need this decree-law. Of course, the code is not intangible, but it would be enough to give incentives, to hire specialized staff to run the purchasing plants to do faster, to invest in the good design of the works, to give peremptive terms to the authorization processes, to simplify the preliminary requirements, to give a shield to those who must assume the responsibility to authorize, if they do so following the standard procedures: these simple things are needed. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, ma'am. There is none of this in this decree-law. Instead you chose to deregulate, so you reopen the spaces that we had taken away from the evil. True, the vast majority of mayors and operators are honest, but that does not mean that it is right to reduce transparency and control in this country. I repeat, we believe that this measure will not unlock anything; indeed, we will be more exposed to lawlessness. The divisions of this majority - and I have indeed finished, Mr President - have produced a confused measure, which instead of giving certainty to businesses complicates things and feeds uncertainty, the opposite of what businesses need. After having blocked the yards for months, all together you take responsibility now for a useless and harmful measure, which will hurt the country and businesses, as this Government is doing badly. Continue, even today, to put an electoral flag instead of facing the problems. Unfortunately, the bill of your flags, in the end, will pay for it by companies and Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u56	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like, of course, to thank the Government, the rapporteurs, all the members of the Commissions and our Offices and, allow me, Mr President, to thank you too, since, as yesterday, they also recognized the oppositions, if we bring home such an important measure, it will also be thanks to a choral work that saw you engaged in the Presidency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of the two: or this is a watered-down provision, which is of no use, as Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia say, or is a criminal measure, as we have just heard. I believe that it is neither the one nor the other, that it is a fair provision and that, unworthy and criminal, there is a politically unjustifiable attitude on the part of the opposition. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] There is only one thing that we have wronged, and we must acknowledge it, as a majority, both as Movimento 5 Stars and as a League, and it was not to update the title of the provision. The title of the measure has remained unblocked yards, but this measure does much more: unblocks the facilities for the waste sector, unlocks reconstruction, simplifies. It goes well beyond the title, which is evocative, but does not include everything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Faced with the inability of the oppositions to admit all this, we hope not to find any of our colleagues disguised as old, with fake beard and stick, maybe next to the yards that will start again, to contest even the works, a bit like Aldo, Giovanni and Giacomo do in a well-known sketch. Let's hope that at least that saves us! I would like to quickly list some of the aspects that we are going to address. The first, of course, is the procurement code with a two-year moratorium. We had said and pointed out: it is not that in the two years there will be the far west, there will be those so much praised European rules to which the opposition often refers, but not when it is needed and when it might be useful. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Senator Mirabelli, we may also be held responsible for the evils of the world, but to think that Italy has been blocked in a year, since we are in government, when, for example, Article 3 of the measure amends the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001, a measure that has been awaited for years by industry experts, professionals and administrations, seems to me at least ungenerous. And with regard to the data you mentioned, not to deny it, but it is precisely that 22% more work assigned by the local authorities that demonstrates the goodness of the management, because the increase in direct custody for the municipalities from 40,000 to 150,000 euros already exists. It is already law, with the budget law, and it has already produced advantages. The same is true of the new rules that have been introduced in this area. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Regarding the reconstruction, as Mr Arrigoni has said with passion and richness of details, this is the fifth measure in a year that acts and remedys your laxism and your immobilism: Decree No. 55 of 2018, which we converted, in fact changing it to a whole, the milleproroghe, the emergency decree, which was not only a decree for Genoa, but also a decree for the earthquake, and the budget law. In addition to these, the measures contained in this measure are added. Mr Verducci, you may also stand as a representative of citizens and mayors, but the European elections have recently been held. The earthquake was called the Amatrice-Norcia-Visso earthquake. Well, if the citizens of these cities have assigned 42 percent to the League and 12 percent to the Democratic Party in Norcia, 40 percent to the League and 12 percent to the Democratic Party and 47 percent to the League in Visso and 14 percent to the Democratic Party, maybe they have a different idea of how we followed it and how you followed it. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Let's see politics! President, Senator Verducci, please. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). With regard to the teaching staff, out of respect for my colleague Pazzaglini, I remember that in October 2016, in Arquata del Tronto - there was my colleague Errani, who is not in the Chamber now - in Errani and Renzi it was his colleague Pazzaglini, then mayor, who asked for an intervention by way of derogation on staff assignments, but only in July 2017 the Government provided, except then in the Marches, to guide PD, forget to implement that measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We're gonna extend it today, and we're gonna do it. With regard to waste, less waste means more plants. Yesterday we approved an important motion and today we respond, because at last we can start to give authorizations. Pending the guidelines from the Ministry and pending the transposition of the European package, we will be able to start again and we will be able to do so in Rome as well. Now President Zingaretti will have no excuse to act on the FORSU plants of Lazio: in Rome and Lazio we are absolutely below the minimum trade union and now, with the extraordinary intervention and the possibility to act reducing the times or acting as a derogation, we will finally be able to respond to a clear need of citizens, who cannot pay the PD failures in Lazio Region. I could talk about the Mose and the Third Pass, but time does not allow me many other examples. I would like to refer to video surveillance: Senator Malpezzi, we all wish that there was no need to introduce video surveillance to protect minors and the elderly, but unfortunately it serves. Each of us, whenever he sees certain images, wonders how it is possible: well, others can wonder how it is possible, we must act to solve the problem. Colle Giammanco, it is true that you have been trying for ten years, but it took a firm and clear commitment of Matteo Salvini and the League to introduce such a passage in this measure and to find the resources. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have done so, just as we have adopted a provision that allows the mayors to intervene when there are degraded condominiums. We all remember the images of the Hotel House in Porto Recanati: well, finally, the mayors, who were powerless, will have the possibility to appoint administrators of condominium and prevent problems in situations of degradation such as that. I was saying that time doesn't allow me to give any more examples. It is the same time that has not allowed us to include in the measure other solutions, already identified both at the political level and of the resources as, in order to give some examples, the appointment of the extraordinary commissioner for the maintenance of the state highway n. 36 and the connected roadway, that connects Milan to Valtellina, in view of the world skis of 2026; the possibility of strengthening the ring road of Lodi (10 million euros already are and in the next measures we will go to insert the disposition); to answer - as the colleague of Brothers of Italy recalled - to the instances of the workers and the companies that have ended, despite them, involved in problems of business failures as subcontractors. Well, that fund saves yards will be made: yesterday, in Marsciano, a delegation of Astaldi companies met Minister Salvini and there is the commitment of the League to find a solution from the next steps, because workers and businesses cannot pay for problems that are not theirs. Well, just one of the answers I have just mentioned would justify a vote in favour of this measure and it can only be a strong vote in favour of that of the League Group, not simply in favour of a measure, but in favour of the Italian citizens, businesses and municipalities, which will benefit from this measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giannuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u59	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, after listening carefully to the explanations of vote, including the one just before me, I think that the absence of substance from the Commission is probably confusing. It would be enough to read the acts, from how they started to how they arrived in this House. This measure is based on dozens and dozens of hearings held by the Commission on merit, on 8th (public works, communications); we started in December and ended - or rather, interrupted, probably - a few days before the beginning of its discussion. What happened this time of year? The hearings were important and I believe that the two most significant, in the institutional context, were those of the President of the DAC and the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Buscema, who also submitted a full report on the whole issue of the Procurement Code. Because that's what this is about: the procurement code. While we were discussing this important measure and the revision of that code, one of the recommendations that we have all made, across the board, without a majority or opposition position, is that the amendments to it were of parliamentary interest. Taken note of the mistakes that had been made in our opinion in the last legislature through the law delegation that had produced the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, in order not to commit them again, it was hoped that it could be discussed within the competent Commissions, article by article, provision by measure, trying to grasp the instances that came from the world of small enterprises, unions, those who work, trade associations and institutional entities. After all this work, one morning in the Commission public works and I say that we have probably wasted time, because the day before the Council of Ministers had dismissed the delegation law on the revision of the Code of Procurement: either we have gone crazy or we make fun of ourselves or those who are out of this Chamber, I have said to myself; but, in my opinion, it is all three things (and I also subscribe to the list of crazy people, because to stay in there or you are crazy or else you come away, so I am crazy among the crazy). And then there was the spasmodic expectation of this measure on the so-called unblocking yards. I always remember a statement made in the Commission by Mr Antonella Faggi, who I hope will not, when he said: we have loaded this measure with responsibility and we have called it unblocking yards, but the title is another. It was true and he was right, because there is no trace of unblocking yards, yet all those who talk about it, including the so-called political leaders, continue to call it that. Well, after weeks of requests from Senator Nencini and also from myself, the famous list of yards has arrived, but not of unlocked yards, of the blocked yards: overall, for approximately 17 billion euros. It is a dense list of yards, supplied by Anas after weeks of requests, which sees the shift from one to four years of basic works of essential public works already can be ironed and financed, to cover measures that this Government has intended to carry on like the income of citizenship, 100 quota or other stuff, that in the end have not brought home any result, not even in the interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] So we didn't do anything on the one hand and we blocked 18 billion surgeries. Only in my Tuscany is 1.2 billion euros of infrastructure: the roads, the Tyrrhenian lane, the railway connection from Florence to Versilia. Everything is well documented and obviously articulated. Then we descended on the merit of the madness even greater than the measure, trying to analyze it point by point, despite the fact that it really wanted to throw everything away. We have therefore tabled amendments in the direction of small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, we have proposed to reduce the number of lots, so that our small companies can participate; to maintain - why do you want to cancel it? - the above mentioned rite, which is a positive fact; to bring the negotiated procedure up to a million euros, an important measure, because otherwise the work is blocked because there are no structures in the territories (sometimes I really wonder if you know the territory and the answer is no). Again, we wanted to eliminate the draw (today the companies are drawn on the wheels of the Enalotto), the short chain, in order to allow regional or provincial companies to participate for at least 50 of the value of the contracts, to remove the lowest price and always insert the most economically advantageous offer. The purchasing power stations have been expanded, but attention must be paid to the small municipalities, because they do not even have the surveyor who can race for public works. The purchasing centre must therefore be reunited: the metropolitan ones are not good, we are careful to do those with municipalities of 300 inhabitants. The elimination of fiscal irregularities has been approved and then overtaken first by the Pergreffi amendment and then by the majority amendment, which really destroys a hypothesis that could be positive. I am also thinking of raising the thresholds of the company's certification bodies (SOA), the maintenance works of the green with the most economically advantageous offer and not the lowest, which for the municipalities are fundamental elements. Subcontracting, which is deleterious for small and medium-sized enterprises, has been re-inserted for 40%, while in my opinion the threshold had to be raised even more, because there are Chinese boxes: companies come from every part of Italy empty of contents, empty of workers, empty of operating machines, do the tenders, then contract and sub-contract and strangle the small companies that are on the territories and lead them to failure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] How can you not understand? On the delay of payments to the public administration, the regulation is fine, but we had to be more explicit about the relationship between ANAC and territory: there are officials, executives, municipal secretaries, mayors who no longer do an act because the DAC has become the decision-making center of all kinds of activities. I want to see when this regulation will come, because I would not want to end what was due to come on 30 April last on the Bolkestein directive for bathing establishments, about the demanialization and the easy or difficult removal, the pertinence fees, unnecessary opinions such as customs, so every time someone moves a deck chair they need 18 opinions to give the authorization. That's the situation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the split payment, we have already said that it has been ineffective in its relationship with businesses. The distance from buildings, defined by the famous Ministerial Decree No. 1444 of 1968: do you know what mayors and operators say at every meeting that is done with local administrators? They say that everything changes in Italy, less than Ministerial Decree No. 1444 of 2 April 1968. It's hallucinating: everything changes except that ministerial decree, it's incredible. That provision must be deleted, because it makes no sense! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am beginning to conclude, on taxes for businesses. Last night I was on a television show and I heard Deputy Minister Garavaglia announce that in the Decree-Law growth will be inserted the deductibility of the IMU to 100%. It's a proposal from Forza Italia, so it's fine; however, until I see I don't believe, because with you even St Thomas wouldn't have the chance to have a future, because even putting his finger in the plague you can bring home a result of truth. Therefore, we can only be disappointed, regretted, not for ourselves, not for Forza Italia, but for the territory that looks at us and those who claim that this is an exceptional measure, either lying or not reading it; consequently, we will vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u60	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Statale Linguistico e di Scienze Humani "Eleonora Pimentel Fonseca" in Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u63	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I apologise in advance because an engineer who talks about the procurement code is one of the most boring things that can happen in a parliamentary Chamber and the gap around me already shows that my colleagues have understood what is about to happen. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I believe, however, that some notations which are primarily technical will be necessary to respond to some profoundly wrong statements that I have heard in this House. Allow me only three minutes - probably less - on some grounds. In the meantime, I would like to thank the Senate administration for the management of these days of assembly sessions which are certainly complicated. I say "thank you" because I don't find words more appropriate. It's a thank you I say with my heart. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The excellence of the Senate Administration Offices has once again proved to be an absolute value for this Assembly and this institution. I also thank you for the sense of responsibility of the political forces all in the work of the Commission, long and certainly interrupted in some passages for some situations that have been created, but that have shown that you can manage to deal with a decree with 1,400 amendments coming out of the Commission with about seventy approved amendments, many of the oppositions, having finished that work, and then arrive in the Chamber and continue to improve a text that came out well from the Commissions anyway. So I would like to thank all the political forces for this kind of attitude, including in the management of the work of this House. The key link was between Friday two weeks ago and the way to the House, because there was a personal will of the Group and then of the majority to protect the work of the Commissions. It is not true that what has been done in the Commissions has disappeared for the sub-amendment to text 2 of Mrs Pergreffi's amendment, because that Commission work has been protected. I would also like to thank both rapporteurs, but particularly Senator Faggi, because we have also dealt with those which were political issues and I believe that we should not always make rhetoric and hypocrisy in this House: we must say that there were political issues and that we have addressed them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We have looked ourselves in the eye and this time we have solved the political problems for the good of this country, thanks to a majority that certainly discusses and that certainly has sometimes different positions, but that then always thinks about the primary interest: improving the quality of life of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is the lighthouse that is driving the majority. Then there is the management of decree-laws and conversion laws. I have the feeling that you feel the day before your exams at the university, when you regret that you didn't have an extra day, because maybe you could have done better and study something extra and it would have been perfect. This also gives a sense of the responsibility of each of us, majority and opposition, of the will to improve the texts and make proposals. Then, if this is the approach, it ends up like with the Verducci amendment: perhaps for twenty minutes the work of this House is suspended but the problem is solved and the cover is found and in this case the answer is given that those citizens expected. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I am starting from the subject of the earthquake: it is certainly a matter that must be of national unity. There is Article 28 of the Decree-Law in our examination that deals with the reform of the electronic communications code, a point that perhaps has never been touched on in the debate, because politically and medialy it is not easy to deal with, but that in this context is important because it speaks of prevention, alarm systems and communication. It is on these lines that we must move when facing the great tragedies and the great misfortunes related to atmospheric phenomena, earthquakes or other calamitous events. There is a necessary prevention phase and an emergency management phase. Italian Civil Protection is a flagship of our country and manages the emergency. We need to be more capable of dealing with the post-emergency issue. On this subject, I think it is clear that the majority and all political forces are committed. We are working, also together with the Civil Protection and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (I am thinking of the huge plan on hydrogeological failure), to achieve many of the results that are expected. Then let's move on to that boring issue, about the contract code. I have heard Mr Mirabelli talk about the need to reduce the need for discretion (he used these words) and to advance the criterion of maximum decline. I think that a good reason to vote in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law unblocking is given by the fact that, finally, the criterion of maximum decrease no longer exists. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The procedure that we have envisaged, with the automatic exclusion of tenders that exceed the threshold of anomaly, means having said enough to those areas of discretion that were included in the justifications for the lowest price. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is a technical and factual truth, which cannot be refuted in any way. This is an element. If then you have no capacity - and I can understand - to understand the technical aspect, which is very precise and detailed, at least we have not changed anything, because 30% of the value of the price in the economically advantageous offers has remained that, just as the thresholds for negotiated procedures have not changed; therefore, at least, nothing has changed and there has been no step towards the maximum decrease. In fact, I repeat that technically I can say that there has been precisely the elimination of the maximum decrease, but - at least - there has been no progress on that front. I now turn to the general part concerning the reform of the Public Contract Code. It is clear that the code of public contracts is one of the elements and dowels that fit into the process whereby a public administration, a contracting station, thinks of a work, decides to do it, approves the appropriation, makes the projects do internally or externally and - then - relies on the enterprise and realizes (and then there is the part related to the execution of the work). It is clear that it is part of this very long process that does not determine the speed of the procedure on its own. It is clear that action is needed to clarify the dozens and dozens of assessments that are made on projects, but this is not done with the procurement code. Today we touch this part, but the real unblocking measure is Article 4, because there are works that are stopped and blocked - with appropriations and start of work already in place - for obstacles concerning punctual situations of the individual yard or of a procedural nature. First of all, I must acknowledge that the adoption of the amendment by Senator Margiotta (which I thank for proposing, as I thank him for tabling other amendments that have been adopted), with the setting of a time limit and a methodology for deciding on the most restricted works to be commissary, puts us in a position to say that this measure is exactly what was needed. In fact, beyond the question of the programme 6,000 Campanili and the road Lioni - Grottaminerda, in the amending phase additional works have been inserted to be unblocked because they are firm, even if already financed. I think of the Mose; it is evident the position that the Movimento 5 Stars has always had on that work. However, it is a work that has a state of progress of 95% and with 5 billion euros firm that must be spent to bring it to completion so that it can finally work: it is clear that it was necessary to act as the Minister Toninelli has proposed, among other things in agreement with the Presidents of the Region. Therefore, that measure is necessary to solve these types of problems. Then there are further measures within the decree-law under consideration. On the earthquake, in addition to what I have said and which I do not return to, other Members have already mentioned several measures. However, we must also get out of hypocrisy, because if after many years from earthquakes such as that of the Eagle, from which many years have truly passed, and those of 2016 - there are still great difficulties is because perhaps the initial mechanism that has been thought, with the orders of the Commissioner and civil protection ordinances have created a sedimentation of devices, provisions and rules that make it difficult to proceed with the practices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting one last item which has been included in the measure. I am referring to the lifting of motorway concessions. Mr Grassi said very well in his speech yesterday: there is a clear imbalance between the public part, therefore the concessionary person, and the concessionaire, who became a monopolist and who knew that he had no reason to get out of that monopoly system. A small amendment will ensure that today there is a greater balance between the power of the state and the power of the dealers, and that is an objective that this majority had. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Of course, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u64	I would like to inform the rapporteurs that the proposal for coordination C1, which is being distributed, has been tabled. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the coordination proposal C1, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 18 April 2019, n. 32, laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the sector of public contracts, for the acceleration of infrastructure interventions, urban regeneration and reconstruction following seismic events". (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] (at 12.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u65	Colleagues, before moving on to the debate on motions, I would like to take a decision with all of you on Senator Marcucci's request for Mr Tria to come to this House next week to answer questions relating to the economy. Mr Tria is available at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, but at the Conference of the Leaders we had established that the entire day of Tuesday would be devoted to the Commissions, while the debate in the Chamber would take place on Wednesday. In the light, however, of Minister Tria's willingness only on Tuesday (because he will be abroad on Wednesday) I would propose that we spend about an hour, from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. - then we can better complete the order of interventions - on Tuesday, if you all agree. Each Group will have five minutes to intervene, so as to leave plenty of room for the Commissions to work. If no comments are made, it remains established that on Tuesday 11 June, at 4 p.m., there will be the information of Minister Tria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00101 by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00109 by Senator Rauti and other senators, 1-00110 (text 2) by Senator Marcucci and other senators, 1-00111 by Senator Steger and other senators, 1-00112 by Senator Bernini and other senators, and 1-00139 by Senators Marilotti and Nisini and other senators, on Radio Radicale. I call Senator Errani to explain motion 101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u67	Mr President, given that virtually all the groups have tabled motions, I think that, apart from the various political positions, it is important and fundamental - I call on all of us to make an effort - to find a unified solution that will be able to respond to this problem. After all, beyond the political positions of each of us, it is indisputable that Radio Radicale over the years has carried out a very important and irreplaceable public service, with the press review and above all with the integral transmission without any manipulation of the great political events as well as - even more important aspect - of institutional work. I think that this has been and is a very useful service in the relationship between citizens and institutions, a very sensitive and critical relationship at this stage. Added to this is the fact that the archive of Radical Radio is in itself an invaluable heritage that cannot be abandoned. Colleagues and colleagues, I think these two fundamental reasons can stimulate us to find, in the meantime, an immediate solution: that is to commit the Government to find the resources so that the activity of Radical Radio does not stop in 2019 until the end of the year. Meanwhile, we must work together to find a solution aimed at the new convention and a transparent solution that, moreover, Radio Radicale has always emphasized and proposed for the first time. There are all the reasons and wills for a solution. I have read the motions and the vast majority say the same thing; even in the motion of the majority forces there is a sign. Well, let's try to take a step. I invite colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars and the League to work in these two hours of discussion. There are conditions, if there is a positive political will to resolve. Moreover, next week in the House the measure on growth will be discussed and, if I understand correctly, there is the will to recover in the debate in the Chamber the amendment relating to Radio Radicale. There would be all the conditions for basically resolving this issue which I am convinced - and I hope - is at the heart of the whole House. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u68	I call Senator Rauti to explain motion 109.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u69	Mr President, at last we come to discuss these motions in this House. Finally, I say why most of them, including ours, were presented between March and April and two others were added later, on 5 June. There was an urgent need to talk about it because the deadline, of which we are all aware, was set at 31 May. However, better than nothing, as they say. The point is that Radio Radicale, founded in 1976, has in existence a convention stipulated in 1994 with the MISE; It is therefore a question of the granting of a service, and therefore a convention which we are calling for to be renewed and not for funding. With the last budget law it happens that the resources for this service are halved, in view of the fact that Radio Radicale is recognized by the Government as a radio undertaking that carries out information activities of general interest, it carries out public service consisting in transmitting the sessions of Parliament and beyond, it also transmits - I would like to remind you - the activity of the Municipal Councils, of the Court of Auditors, of the Higher Council of the judiciary, of the European Parliament, as well as a series of important events of national importance such as congresses, festivals, assemblies of parties. It is evident and does not escape anyone that Radio Radicale is, beyond any eventual ideological judgment or prejudice, a historical broadcaster that transmits and publishes documents of general interest for our country. I would also like to remind you that for us it is a historical station, because it was the first radio to broadcast also the congresses of the Social Movement (but this is another story). We're coming today. There is another very important point, namely that Radio Radicale is the repository of an endless audio-video archive, in which there is the history of our country: judicial history, because there is a judicial archive, and political history, because there is the archive of political parties and movements. We therefore call for the renewal of the Convention, but I also want to say that, while waiting for the motions presented over time to be discussed, there has been a change of course in the government line. Everyone will remember that the undersecretary Vito Crimi, who has the delegation to publishing, had fought not to extend the stipulated convention, while even today is in question a motion later filed by the League and the Movimento 5 Stars that tends to save Radio Radicale - albeit with a specific one, that will expose the extensor colleagues - and that above all - we are glad that there has been a repentance - proposes to digitize the archives of Radio Radicale. I read today in the newspaper that Monday afternoon in the Finance and Budget Committees of the House, where we will vote on the bill growth, there will also be a passage aimed at saving, in the publishing package, also Radio Radicale. In the line of government there was, therefore, evidently, a wise reversal of tendency that we welcome, but we hope that we will move from words to deeds, because the motions commit the governments but do not bind them; we will see. So on our part there is the request for the renewal of the convention. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u70	I call Senator Verducci to explain motion 110 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u71	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we are calling for Radical Radio to live, because we want to see a model of public service which has enabled the citizens of these twenty-five years of the Convention to open up to them the doors of the institutions' palaces, to make known in full, without mediation and without filters, the work of the Chamber, the Senate and the parliamentary committees, the courtrooms in the main proceedings, the work of the CSM, the life of political parties and movements in congresses, demonstrations, of all without exception, because it is the radio of politics not of a party. It is a microphone that records all the voices and allows citizens to know, know, assist, participate, form an unconditioned opinion, to mature an awareness that is, President, the very essence of citizenship, of civicism, of commitment, because only knowledge makes free and without freedom there can be no democracy. The right to information and the right to knowledge are held together and are fundamental principles of our Constitution, those constitutional principles guaranteed by Radio Radicale, as is clearly written in Agcom's urgent warning to the Government, where the interruption of the Convention with Radio Radicale is denounced as non-continuity of a service of general interest and is therefore an illegitimate interruption, the suspension of a right, a political act against information, against the right of citizens to transparency of the public thing. Undersecretary Crimi, it is a decision that you have repeatedly tried to motivate with a scornful, bureaucratic, annoying act: the annoyance of those who cannot bear to know what is happening in the palaces of the Government, the annoyance of those who, having come to power, close themselves in the bunker and do not tolerate information that is not domesticated, that is not selfie or tweeted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The attempt to close Radical Radio is a liberticidal act, it must be called by this name, and it is within an authoritarian and demagogic conception that affects our rule of law, because it restricts spaces of freedom and inclusion. Plurality and awareness, President, are the main enemies of quainquism, of bad politics that feeds on the poison of fake news, manipulation. The attack on Radical Radio is one with a continuous climate of intimidation towards those who try to do journalism, often vexed by an unbearable precariousness, and passes from the occupation of Rai and the plan of zeroing the fund for pluralism that will hit the non-profit publishing... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u72	Excuse me, Senator Verducci. Colleagues, please leave the benches of the government free, as I have had occasion to emphasize more than once.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u73	Mr Verducci (PD). Thank you, President. I was saying, a plan of zeroing the fund for pluralism that will affect non-profit and cooperative publishing, voices such as "Avvenire" and "The Manifesto" and thousands of workers and hundreds of voices from local communities, lay and religious associationism in defense of which President Mattarella has repeatedly intervened, recalling the inseparable link between freedom of information and democracy. Yet you, Undersecretary, but also President Conte, have said that the market will take care of it. But yours is a deception because there can be no market for those who do not profit, such as information, which is not a commodity but a common good to which citizens are entitled, as enshrined in Article 21 of our Constitution. For this reason, everywhere in world democracies, the publishing of ideas and minorities is supported by public intervention; otherwise it would disappear, Undersecretary, and would win - as already happens - only the large groups, the oligopolies of the strongest, the interests and conflicts of interest. But maybe this is what you want: information packed by Internet platforms, maybe managed as you please by the owner of a company, party or movement. Does that ring a bell? Don't get stained with a regime act. [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini]] We call for the Convention to be renewed and then, only afterward, we call for a public evidence contest; for continuity to be given to that priceless heritage of our collective identity, which is the archive of Radical Radio. Mr President, the history of our Republic has begun long before those who rule today, long before us, and will continue afterwards; the archives of Radical Radio must continue to be indelible traces of this. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today and it is a vote that is very, very valuable. When the one with the power turns off a voice, it is the voice of each one of us that is threatened. [[Applause from the PD Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u74	I call Senator Cangini to explain motion 112.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u75	Mr President, distinguished members of the Government, fellow senators, our motion is soon said: the Government is asked to find, in the folds of the public budget, in those EUR 850 billion of annual expenditure, EUR 10 million to renew the Convention to Radio Radicale. It is asked to do so immediately and possibly through a decree-law and not a bill, in order to prevent that the public service offered daily, for thirty years to this side, by Radio Radicale to the nation is suspended. Not only do we say it; Agcom also says it. The Authority for Guarantees in Communications said that the service is public and of a high level and that suspending it would be a damage to the community. I do not see why this request should not be accepted and it would be paradoxical for the life of Radical Radio to be threatened by a Government which, within itself, has a political part that has made transparency its rhetoric, its own totem, at least as long as it exercised its political function by the ranks of the opposition. The transparency totem became a taboo when the 5 Star Movimento came to the government and we no longer saw direct streaming or anything else. Over the past thirty years, the transparency of public debate, of debate within Parliamentary and Commissional classrooms, of processes, of book presentations, of party congresses has been guaranteed only and only by Radical Radio. I believe that at the origin of this debate there is a mistake, a wrong assessment, probably made by the Undersecretary Crimes at the beginning of the legislature, when he inserted - and in his interviews we perceive the error - the issue of Radical Radio in the cauldron of the funds for publishing: that is not the case. It would not have been surprising if it had been so, because it is clear that this Government - and the Government is one and it is useless for the Legist colleagues to try to save their soul by tweeting or posting on social positions different from those assumed by the Government: the Government is unique and must be judged for its formal acts - is at the service of the lobby of true strong powers, which are no longer the Confindustria but the giants of the web, who have all the interest in destroying paper publishing and traditional information, in order to continue to make illegal trade in information. [[Senator Rampi's applause.]] We are passively witnessing the greatest intellectual property theft in the history of humanity: what happens with Google, Facebook and Amazon and the position taken by our Government in Europe, together with the State of Luxembourg, against the directive that simply wanted to impose the right to intellectual property, and against the State that has notoriously a certain pride of itself, like France, is there to testify to it. All this has nothing to do with it: the funds for publishing have nothing to do with Radical Radio. The story of Radio Radicale is the story of a journalistic institution of our country, which provides a public service, which performs well and which probably no one else could carry out in such an effective way. Therefore, the request that renewal is: decree-law, renewal of the convention and then competition, because it is right that so be. Race that, I presume, Radical Radio would win. However, let us not suspend this service. Undersecretary Crimi, if it is true that there was an error of assessment at the beginning of the legislature on his part, I think it is typical of strong men to recognize... Undersecretary Crimi, are you listening to me? Gasparri (FI-BP). If you don't listen to Radical Radio, at least listen here in the Senate! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). You've colonized everything! CANGINI (FI-BP). I also say that because the closure of Radical Radio would cast a shadow over the whole of Parliament. President Senator Cangini, I believe the government has understood. Go ahead with your speech. CANGINI (FI-BP). If you guarantee, Mr President, I trust you, but I have some doubts! [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, the government listened. Courteously, let us restore the facts. CANGINI (FI-BP). It is typical of the weak and insecure not questioning their mistakes. You, of course, made a mistake at the beginning of the legislature in considering Radio Radicale as one of the many beneficiaries of the publishing fund: prove what it is made of, correct your mistake and move on with this service. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u76	I call Senator De Lucia to explain motion No 139.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u77	Mr President, it is difficult to sum up in a few minutes a motion which actually tells us of such a long period of history in our country. I prefer to start from the end, therefore, from May 21 last, when Radio Radicale has enjoyed a consideration equal to 10 million euros per year on the basis of an agreement stipulated with the Ministry of Economic Development for the activity of radio transmission of parliamentary sessions. It should be recalled that, pursuant to Law No 230 of 1990, with contributions to private radio companies which have carried out information activities of general interest, Radio Radicale received a contribution of EUR 4 million per year from the Department for Information and Publishing of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The conventional regime, concluded by the Ministry of Economic Development with the Centro di produzione SpA, derives from the obligations laid down in Law No 223 of 1990, which includes the public and private broadcasting sector, which provided for the RAI, as a concessionaire for public service broadcasting, to carry out the broadcasting service of parliamentary sessions. Subsequently, Decree-Law No. 558 of 1993 established, for the transmission of parliamentary work, the convention with a private subject for a period of three years, and in any case until the complete realization of the parliamentary network of the RAI, recognizing a consideration in exchange for the service rendered. As of 18 November 1994, therefore, a special agreement was concluded between the company Centro di produzione SpA, owner of the Radio Radicale, and the then Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, for the implementation of the radio broadcasting service of parliamentary sessions throughout the country. The Convention, which lasted for three years, provided for expenditure of LIT 10 billion per year. Law No 224 of 1998 renewed the three-year agreement with Centro di produzione SpA, providing for the instrument of the invitation to tender for the following period; over the years, the same convention was renewed, first for three years, subsequently for two-year temporal arches, and finally for the individual annual expenditures. This up to the point of Article 1, paragraph 88, of the aforementioned budget law for 2019, which authorized the Ministry of Economic Development to extend for a further six months the conventional regime with the Production Center SpA for a commitment of expenditure of 5 million euros. While recognizing the service of public utility relating to the transmission of parliamentary sessions offered by Radical Radio in this long period, it is emphasized that the described transitional regime has become, over the decades, a permanent regime, despite the birth in 1998 of the radio channel Rai Gr Parliament. It follows from the above that the issuer has received a total of about 250 million euros from the State over the years, between the provisions of the Convention with the Ministry of Economic Development and the contributions made by the Department for Information and Publishing of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, as a consideration for the performance of the broadcasting service of parliamentary works, fixed without any further public invitation to tender. Article 2 of the Convention concluded on 18 November 1994 between the then Minister for Posts and Telecommunications and the Centre for Production SpA provides that the company is required to transmit, for each plant, between 8 and 21, at least 60% of the total annual number of hours devoted by the Chambers to the Chambers of the Chambers and that the latter may not be interrupted, preceded and followed, for a period of 30 minutes from their beginning and end, by advertising or political announcements. Therefore, it is considered that the annual consideration granted to Centro di produzione SpA for the service covered by the agreement seems to be excessive, given the actual costs of the service rendered in the light of the new technologies currently available on the market, it is noted that Radio Radicale is owned by a public limited company, 25% of which is owned by a private entity, leader in the large distribution sector. Finally, it should be stressed that Article 1 (2) of Law No 224 of 1998 established that the radio network dedicated to parliamentary work cannot be extended until the date of entry into force of the law of general reform of the communications system. Consider also that Radio Radicale is a historical station, which transmits and publishes every day the directs of parliamentary work. Although not within the scope of the Convention, Radio Radicale has always ensured coverage for the main political and institutional events, documenting the activities of municipal councils, the Court of Auditors, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and so on. Our motion therefore commits the Government to activate all appropriate initiatives in order to approve a reference legislation relating to the radio and multimedia service of general interest intended for institutional information and communication, which provides for the assignment of the service by invitation to tender, through a coherent, sure and transparent framework of the obligations, criteria, duration and financing mechanisms of the service, which also governs the transitional period pending the completion of the tendering procedure and which establishes, at the same time, the abolition of the prohibition of extension of the radio network dedicated to parliamentary work. The motion also commits the Government to activate a separate agreement with Centro di produzione SpA of three years duration, aimed exclusively at concluding the activity of digitization and security of the archives of Radio Radicale, even before the activation of the first convention of 21 November 1994, and for an amount that covers exclusively the cost of the personnel necessary to carry out such activity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u78	As there are no speeches under discussion, I call on the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u79	Mr President, I would ask you kindly for a quarter of an hour to suspend the work, in order to try to find a solution to the motions, in order to approve a text as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u80	As there are no comments, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.58 p.m. and resumed at 13.29 a.m.) Let's get back to work. I would once again urge the Government representative to comment on the motions presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u81	Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your time. I object to motions No 101, first signed by Senator De Petris, No 109, first signed by Senator Rauti, No 110 (text 2), first signed by Senator Marcucci, No 111, first signed by Senator Steger and No 112, first signed by Senator Bernini. On motion 139 the opinion is in favour of some rewordings: some corrections in the premises, which I give to the documents, President, and, as regards the commitments of the device, as amended: it commits the Government to activate all appropriate initiatives in order to: a) approve a reference legislation relating to the radio and multimedia service of general interest intended for information and institutional communication, that if it provides for the assignment of the service by invitation to tender, it takes place through a coherent, certain and transparent framework of the obligations, criteria, duration and financing mechanisms of the same, in accordance with the highest technological standards present on the market, which also governs the transitional period until the completion of the tender; (b) to activate a separate agreement with Centro di produzione SpA of three years' duration, aimed exclusively at concluding the activity of digitization and security of the archives of Radio Radicale even before the activation of the first convention of 21 November 1994, and for an amount that covers exclusively the cost of the personnel necessary to carry out such activity, providing as a condition for the conclusion of that convention that the digital archive remains formally bound to public use. If this is reworded, the opinion on the motion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u82	I would ask the proposers whether they accept the proposed reformulation. MARILOTTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u85	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, our Group has also tabled a motion in support of Radical Radio. We have done so in the belief that this radio station has for decades been a worthy function of bringing citizens closer to the institutions. It all began in years when political information was that of public service news and a newspaper page. Thanks to Radio Radicale the citizens were able to know the voice of the protagonists, follow the parliamentary works, demonstrations and congresses of the parties. It was a real revolution to gain access to knowledge that was previously the prerogative of those few citizens who had the time and the opportunity to sit in the tribune of the parliamentary classrooms. Radio Radicale was a network for institutions long before it was born. Radio Radicale was the first to experience the notion of disintermediation, so dear today to the Movimento 5 Stars. That is why the attitude of the Government and the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with delegation to publishing seemed immediately incomprehensible to us. To say that radio has to compete with the market is a bit like saying that knowledge of institutions is a commodity like all the others. On the other hand, we think that this is a common good and that, as such, it deserves protection and support. And it deserves it especially today, where the network has proved to be a place full of pitfalls as regards the proper access of people to public information. As several scholars have told, without the recordings of Radio Radicale on the processes, today we would have a much weaker memory, a much lower ability to analyze and understand some key passages of the recent history of Italy. But Radical Radio was also an extraordinary school of good journalism. In that editorial staff were formed a lot of good journalists, a profession that deserves respect and that lives a delicate moment because of the technological transformations. We need educated and independent journalism because journalism is a fundamental ingredient in the quality of democracy and public debate. Mr President, in conclusion, we also join the choir of those who in recent months have asked, on the one hand, for the extension of the concession and, on the other hand, the public warning that the Radical Radio itself has been asking for for twenty-five years. The government revisits its position because we all need Radical Radio; we need its public service in favour of citizens and institutions. Mr President, we will support all the motions put forward by colleagues from the various parties. I cannot speak on the majority motion because I have just heard about it and when I look at it I will study it to understand how we are going to move. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u88	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case with this majority, we are discussing an issue on which we have heard in the government and between Members and senators say everything and the opposite of everything until a few moments ago. The state of things, however, is undeniable: at the moment the convention with Radio Radicale is not in place and we read in the newspapers, with some relief, the Government's intention, as now stated, to find a bridge solution for 2019, but we wait for this intention to be translated into a concrete act. The public service that Radio Radicale has carried out in these decades is a fact; the numbers are there to prove it: 3,300 parliamentary days, 23,500 hearings and, again, congresses, seminars, meetings, cultural and political events, processes, all available freely with a few clicks. It is a work that transcends political and even party membership. There is no doubt that it has fueled a fruitful debate, has contributed to direct, free, pluralistic information and promoted knowledge about many problems, helping any citizen to form his own opinion away from the clichés of part, to which the world of social media is unfortunately getting used to us. How many of us have been able to follow political and institutional events through the programming of Radical Radio and how many have used it as a witness to future memory of their public initiatives? What is this if not a real public service? Switching off Radical Radio means impoverishing our society; it means hurting its democracy. This is the only reason why the problem of the renewal of the Convention should not even arise. A government that cares about the informed information of its citizens should even thank them. What worries me most is the political attitude that this act hides because it is the means to indicate the ends and one cannot but see that the unfortunate possibility of the closure of Radical Radio is a part of the politics of the majority that aims to strike those who think otherwise. I'm also thinking about publishing contributions. How many voices - in part, of course - can be affected by this way of thinking? In the case of Radio Radicale, even this topic can not be brought up: it really hosted us all. To be clear, this is almost a contradiction: a television station linked to a political party (the Radical Party), but never biased; a private radio, but that really does public service without advertising, just words and all information. As they say: inside, but outside the Palace. I think it is unnecessary to stress to this House the historical, political and journalistic importance of the immense archive and daily work of the broadcaster, starting with the transparency of parliamentary work. It is astonishing, even if to a certain extent, that the proponents of transparency are doing everything possible to limit citizens' ability to follow what is happening in the Senate and in the House. Don't tell me the sessions are already live streaming. We know that the two are not comparable even for the diffusion of the signal, which covers almost all the national territory and for the costs of access to the two different instruments. It is clear to everyone that this essential service for the democratic life of the country cannot be supported by private interventions for both market and opportunity reasons. Who would not suspect that a company could invest in the radio to prevent it from transmitting, for example, a trial against it? The fact that in recent decades it has proceeded with renewals and not with calls and tenders is not in any way attributable to the issuer, but to the inertia of the policy and it is not acceptable that this behaviour becomes an addictive in the debate we are conducting today and that it will have to see you engaged in the search for a solution. The intention to provide for a general reform of the communications system by a legislative measure is undoubtedly commendable and worthy, on the part of the opposition, of the utmost attention and cooperation, but it is clear that in the time between a statement to the press and the publication in the Official Journal of a reform shared and voted by Parliament, it is your duty to prevent the interruption of a service for all citizens and to ensure the security of an unparalleled archive on the national and almost international scene. There is a piece of history to safeguard, there are professionals who every day incorporate elements of reflection into the public debate. I am thinking of the subject of prisons, for example, which no one else would talk about. Allow me a personal note: for years I have been a faithful listener of the morning press review of a great journalist recently disappeared, Massimo Bordin [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups]] able to offer to its listeners not the mere news reported by the press, but a never trivial analysis of the social and political phenomena of our country. Given the difficult times we run, we would need to defend the places that cultivate critical thinking, that feed the debate, that enrich our community with quality content. We have repeatedly drawn the attention of the Government and the majority to the role that Radical Radio has played in recent decades and we are forced, once again, to make us promoters of an initiative that prevents the closure of an authoritative and important voice of our country's information system. The sometimes contemptuous attitude of the majority undoubtedly restores the image of two political forces, League and Movimento 5 Stars, which not only have a bad relationship with the pluralism of ideas, but also with the duty to guarantee it. We have daily examples of this, with regard to Rai, with ministers who discern palimpsests, authors, programs, compensations, who draft proscription lists and comment on the ladders and even the choice of guests. The press serves those who are governed, not those who rule (U.S. Supreme Court, 1971): it is a fundamental principle of a rule of law that wants to define itself as such. If the institutions do nothing, just as has happened in recent months, Radio Radicale will end forever and with it all the heritage of knowledge and culture that it has produced in these decades. It is for this reason that it is essential to find the necessary resources for the bridge period and to work on long-term solutions to ensure the continuation of the service. I therefore announce the vote in favour of Free and Equal to the motion and also to those of the Groups which are essentially identical. The vote will be of abstention towards the majority motion, with the hope that our invitation and the corresponding commitment that we have heard from the Undersecretary Crimes leads to a further opening and concrete solution that can be the subject of a measure as soon as possible and that, in the meantime, we can maintain the status quo of Radio Radicale and of all those who work there. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u91	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, even on the issue of Radical Radio, today a double speed is reproduced in a plastic way, in fact a double soul that is within this majority. It is evident that a part of it, as announced in recent months with great firmness and vehemence, has never thought of saving Radical Radio, of giving an extension. Another part of it, another soul, evidently thinks differently and has attempted mediation. We do not lose hope because there is still the so-called decree-growth law that could foresee within it an amendment to extend the publishing fund that allows to arrive to 2020, including, within this measure, the rescue of Radio Radicale. Of course it is that today, while appreciating the efforts of the majority who called for a 15-minute suspension of the House, a comparison to reconsider the issue and make changes, thus introducing the prospect of a reference regulation and also providing for a transitional phase and a necessary competition and - and we share this - a separate convention for digitizing the archive, the result is only one: there will be no extension of the service provided by Radio Radicale. Radical radio won't be saved. These were the motions to save Radical Radio and such rescue will not take place. While appreciating the attempt, we must look at the reality is the reality is this. It's just a few minutes ago a news that almost seems to draw a destiny. Tomorrow Rimini will be awarded the Massimo Bordin Prize, in the open day of the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers, so not exactly an association or a party. This prize will be awarded by the criminals in "Journalism and judicial information." I would like to read, albeit briefly and extricately, the explanatory statement of the prize, because it is not said that Radio Radicale carries out only, as the only service of general interest, that of the directs of the plenary sessions. For us it offers a public service but, beyond that, the motivation that I am about to read to you strengthens this concept because the award we are talking about will be awarded tomorrow to Radio Radicale because: "it represents an indispensable point of reference for anyone who intends to deal with the issues of justice. Rugs, spaces and insights conducted with competence and knowledge are cross-recognized places of the secular and democratic confrontation. And again: "Radio Radicale has allowed and allows hundreds of thousands of people to have access to correct judicial information, therefore not political, judicial, of which there is so much need, "through the full transmission of criminal debates, without filters or interpretations." And, again on this subject, he concludes: In this long period Radio has played the essential role of public service by reporting institutional and political events, thus offering everyone objective and independent information. This is the motivation for the Bordin Prize. I believe that this goes beyond what I can say or what we can say, with our motions in this House. One fact is certain. I am sorry, although I appreciate - I repeat - the effort to reconsider, that the way has not been found to save Radio Radicale; I am sorry because Radio Radicale is a guarantee of pluralism and freedom of expression, as well as providing a service of general interest and, I stress, of public interest. We are not in Erdogan's Turkey, where the sources that disagree are closed; we are in a civil and democratic society that needs pluralism of information. So let us welcome this profile, this path, this iter that you have indicated as a majority. But today, which you condemn to the suspension of the public service Radio Radicale, we announce a vote in favour of all those motions, starting with ours, on which the Government has expressed the contrary opinion and we firmly declare our abstention on the motion expressed by the majority, including the one containing the changes introduced. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u94	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we have insisted very much on having a debate in this House on the future of Radical Radio and the Convention. We believe that it is appropriate and necessary for the whole country to have a precise notion of what political forces think, of what their objectives are, of what their will are. Massimo Bordin has been remembered several times; he explained very well, in one of his many broadcasts, what Radio Radicale was, how never began his activity: "Radio Radicale" was not born to be the radio of the Radical Party, but rather to explain to the public service how public service is done. This is what has been done in many decades, after the intuition of Marco Pannella, in 1975, with the beginning of activities in 1976. Is there still a need to explain to the public service how we behave towards democracy and the debate on issues relevant to the future of our country, with regard to transparency? I think it is, and from here I want to leave. The public service that the majority of the 5 Star Movimento and the League now operates is perhaps even more doable and worse than that of 1975. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , with your appointments at all levels, your political control, your will to prevent the clarity and transparency of information, with an incredible and inconceivable approach, which you are pursuing with determination, starting from the election of the President of the RAI, which comes from an electoral and parliamentary fraud that you have wanted and defended to the end. The results we see today are the behaviors and attitudes, the ways we see in the public service. Today is the second episode, Undersecretary Crimes, of which you are the great protagonist. Everywhere they tell us that all in all they would like to defend the service of Radio Radicale, but the Undersecretary Crimes, evidently authoritatively addressed, does not give this availability. The League and the Movimento 5 Stars, who are both responsible for the decisions and votes that are expressed in the Assembly, consent to this disaster. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] Episode 2: After the occupation and violence done to the public service, the only true voice that allows transparency and democracy in this country, parliamentary work, political debates, meetings, conferences that are of national importance, today is silenced by you [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] , with a violent political will, dangerous, unprecedented, without real explanations. Mr Undersecretary, authoritative representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if the will is to race, let us do this race. We could have done it this year. We can banish her today quickly. We come to a solution: simple, if we want, but we come to a solution and we do not interrupt a service that is now central in the political life and in the ability to know the Italian people. First to know, then to discuss, then to deliberate. Let me quote you. In the most famous of his useless preaches, Luigi Einaudi, whom we all remember, asked a question that is still fundamental for every sincere democratic: how can one decide without knowing? But maybe he doesn't want to be introduced. Perhaps we do not have the ambition to educate our fellow citizens. Perhaps that is the choice: bad information. Privileging the logic of fake news, preferring the centralized management mechanism from above, unique and addressed information. Maybe that's your goal. Those who have the courage today to put before a relevant issue such as this their specific interest in the workshop assume, Mr. Undersecretary, very serious responsibilities, towards the country, towards politics and towards the institutions, as well as personal responsibilities. You, Mr Undersecretary, take responsibility for a decision to close down Radical Radio, which has no precedent in limiting the information capacity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Democratic Party has very clear ideas about this and has demonstrated it with previous governments and with its action. It is, of course, available to go towards a race, to take place as soon as possible. We are available, not only to this, but we are willing to cooperate with you so that we can achieve this result. However, it is not acceptable for you to interrupt this service of democracy in the country very soon. Well, we are voting in favour of all the motions on which you disagree, which have exactly the objective of saving this heritage and this monument of Italian democracy. We ask you, Mr Undersecretary, to understand better what you have said to the House, to the country, to the Italians, with the changes made to the text of the majority motion. Is the continuity of the service guaranteed? Is there a commitment, waiting for the race, that, however, this information service that today Radio Radicale guarantees can continue? Between the lines of those words which I, personally, and I apologise to you, did not have the capacity to understand, if there is this commitment, we have no problem, in order to save this heritage, voting in favour of the majority motion. If this commitment does not exist, you have a duty to clarify it, Mr. Undersecretary, to us and to the country. In that case, our vote can only be against the majority motion, which would close Radical Radio and work against freedom and democracy in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cangini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u97	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised by the last statement made, which calls on this Government in the last year to call for a call for tenders, when Radio Radicale has been extending since 1997 and no one has ever put his hand in it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No one has ever put it there because they have always chosen the easiest way, that of extension. I would like to remind everyone that, however, the extension is an extraordinary act, while in this area it has become ordinary administration. The League does not want the closure of Radical Radio, but it wants to regulate this sector, which has been waiting for years to be regulated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So much so that Radio Radicale has regularly won a ban in 1994, signing a three-year agreement with the then Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications; since then we have gone on to extensions, three-year, two-year and in the last eleven years even annual, which have not allowed Radio Radicale to make a programming and an investment strategy, because it has always been hung by a thread. [[Comments of Senator Cangini]] If you let me finish, I'll explain, since we haven't interrupted you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The League has been accused of wanting to shut its mouth to the pluralism of information: nothing more false, because Minister Salvini has stated several times, even to the microphones of Radio Radicale, that the intention is to regulate, which no one has ever done. Now you're all good at giving the right solutions and finding the best solutions, but in all these years where have you been? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We as always put our faces on our faces and try to regulate what has been set aside; and so we have come into this situation. Today this motion speaks clearly and goes also to meet the needs and demands of Radio Radicale, who has asked several times, with its publishers, for a call for competition; but this has never been done. This government wants to save archives through an ad hoc convention, because it is an important cultural heritage for our country; it is not backing down. Moreover, in agreement with the presidents of the League and Movimento 5 Star Groups, Romeo and Patuanelli, there is the commitment of this Government to ensure that, as soon as possible, the competent Commission collects and calendarizes the draft laws aimed at regulating this sector. So the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of his motion and will do so firmly, precisely to regulate a sector that has been set aside for decades, not just for years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u100	MOLES (FI-BP). Mr President, senators and senators, with great calmness, but also bitterness, I speak in an explanation of vote on these motions, which could mark the fate not only of a radio and several dozen workers, but also of a significant part of our democracy. I know this is not a consensus or like theme, but it is precisely for this reason that I think it is not exaggerated to say that today, now, in this historical moment, Radio Radicale represents much more than just a radio. This is demonstrated by the fact that on this right and left affair they are fully in agreement on what to do, like the many people who have mobilized in recent weeks. You see, Radical Radio has been and is the voice of all parties, even of the 5 Stars, but maybe that's the problem. Maybe someone who knows what they think, what they say or what they do isn't comfortable today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Moles. I'm begging colleagues to clear the government desks. MOLES (FI-BP). Evidently not interested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It guarantees the Presidency on interest. You're welcome, Senator Moles. MOLES (FI-BP). We are convinced that the survival of a piece of our democracy and our right to consciously exercise democracy is at stake today. Why? Because long before the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars wanted to open Parliament like a tuna box, to show the citizens what happened in the Palace, Radio Radicale was in the Palace, but outside the Palace, to make the Italian political life transparent, to tell every day not only the work of Parliament, but all the debate that makes our Republic live, without ever an advertisement. It has transmitted hours on hours of trials, party congresses, public and private conferences, debates, press reviews (also foreign), reports from all countries, feeding comparison and comparison with others. This is in the einaudi spirit of knowing how to deliberate, which is the salt of democracy. Radical Radio remains the last real stream left, since you, since you are in power, want yours abolished. Instead, in this continuous and continuous streaming of information, radio, an ancient but still current tool, has performed the highest of public services, i.e. informing citizens. It should be stressed that in the debate on the survival of Radio Radicale one aspect is overlooked, that is, the information that can provide on all those issues, no one excluded, that all other media ignore. Now, in this populist drive to cut, the government has perhaps acted a little blindly, without thinking that democracy has a cost, because keeping citizens informed and disseminating information costs and there is no democracy market. What is now being asked of the government, therefore, is to rethink a choice made perhaps too instinctively. A bridge measure is requested, in order to extend the convention until the end of the year, time necessary to allow the service to be put back to competition, as - and it has been emphasized by all - the Radio Radicale itself has asked for for a long time; in the race can participate who can and wants. When I speak on this motion, the House, where the so-called 'growth' decree-law is being discussed, is perhaps working on an amendment, with a text aimed at finding a compromise solution. I thank the sensitivity of those who have presented it, in particular the colleagues of the League and all those who have spent these months to increase their sensitivity on this issue. I would once again appeal to the Undersecretary of Crimes: please enlighten yourself like São Paulo on the road to Damascus and change your mind - it is not a disgrace to do so - perhaps already next week in the House; in this way, you can proudly turn away from yourself the suspicion that you want to shut your mouth to an enlightening encyclopedia for all intents and purposes, to the exclusive benefit of the Goebbelsian machine of the Rousseau platform. Why does he insist on this violent expression of power to impose his idea of a regime, rich in chronic democratic illiteracy? We do not want to lose a completely innovative political information model, especially without any mediation, journalistic interpretation or selection. We do not want to lose a real public service, even if it is carried out by a private channel, nor the heritage of the audio-video archive for a very simple reason: it is the historical memory of our country. We cannot lose that mine that is the archive, which does not equal in Italy, with more than half a million recordings. Attention, however: if you exclude the renewal of the convention and you expect only a contribution for the digitization of the archive, this is not to save it, but to expropriate it; to save an archive, in fact, necessarily presupposes that it continues to be fed with the recordings of all the new events, and the story does not stop in June 2019. If none of you wants this, then I hope that the government will finally go from words to deeds for once. We'll see what you're gonna do, but we'll see it over and over again. Of course, I am announcing the vote in favour of Forza Italia at all the motions of the opposition and the abstention of the disappointing majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is no horde of new barbarian obscurantists between the benches of the government and those of the parliamentary majority, who want to conculcate the right to freedom and to the circulation of information, ideas and facts. It is exactly the opposite: in March 2018 the Italians decided a change of season that goes precisely in the opposite direction to how maliciously and arbitrarily they tried to make believe about the story that is the subject of this motion. The Italians have shown us the path of change, a new path that marks the cardinal points of transparency, fairness, citizens' rights, the free movement of information, ideas and facts. It would be ungenerous and unethical intellectually picking up the historical role that Radio Radicale has played in these decades, often in absolute solitude; but it would be just as unhonest to silence that until the date of May 21, 2019 Radio Radicale has enjoyed a consideration equal to 10 million euros per year on the basis of an agreement concluded with the Ministry of Economic Development. The meticulous and systematic transmission, recording and preservation of parliamentary sessions represented an important moment of democratic growth and gives us an important archive, which will be of vital importance in the study and writing of the history of the second part of the twentieth century. The archives of Radio Radicale constitute an invaluable heritage for the Italian history of the last forty years with over - as has been recalled - 540,000 recordings that include the sessions of the Senate of the Republic, starting from June 7, 1977, of the Chamber of Deputies, starting from September 26, 1976, of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, from September 24, 1985. Among these, just as an example, I would like to remind you that among the treasures of Radical Radio there is the last intervention in the Chamber of Deputies of Mr Aldo Moro just before the kidnapping in March 1978 and its tragic end in May following at the hands of red terrorism. The archive also preserves the complete acts of the most important processes of recent decades, with 23,000 recorded hearings, and those of the congresses of parties and unions for a total of 3,300 days recorded, as well as forms of report of meetings, press conferences, conferences and cultural events. The importance of what has happened so far and of the archive available to the issuer is therefore not at all under discussion. However, the public usefulness of the services provided so far by Radio Radicale in this long period cannot in any way make us forget that a regime and transitory, for the first time codified into conventions (which let me define - to remain cautious - messy and often inconferent over the last twenty-five years), has been substantially transformed, as my colleague Nisini also said, into permanent. However, since 1998 the public broadcasting service, certainly with guilty delay, has given birth to the radio channel Rai Gr Parliament. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Council of the European Union, in its resolution of 1999, defines the issues of public service, given the cultural, social and democratic functions they perform for the common good, which are of vital importance in guaranteeing democracy, pluralism, social cohesion and cultural and linguistic diversity; this act also states that broad public access without discrimination, on the basis of equal opportunities, to the various channels and services is a necessary precondition for fulfilling the particular obligation of public service emissions. In order to return to today's case, the various passages, including extensions, new conventions, silences, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, find them in detail reconstructed in the motion that we will shortly be called to vote. It follows from the above that the issuer has received a total of about €250 million from the State over the years, between the provisions of the Convention with the Ministry of Economic Development and the contributions made by the Department for Information and Publishing of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, as a consideration for the performance of the broadcasting service of parliamentary works, fixed without any further public invitation to tender and often without any form of reporting of the activities of the costs borne by the company from their correlation to the service covered by the Convention. We believe that the annual consideration granted to the Spa Production Centre, which is the operational arm of Radio Radicale, for the service covered by the convention is excessive, given the actual costs of the service rendered in the light of the new technologies currently available on the market; not to mention the fact that Radio Radicale is owned by a public limited company, 25% of which is owned by a leading private entity in the large distribution sector. In order to remain on the path of change, transparency and fairness, which I recalled at the beginning of my speech, I believe that it is necessary to adopt a new reference legislation relating to the radio and multimedia service of general interest, intended for institutional information and communication, which provides for the allocation of the service by invitation to tender, through a coherent, reliable and transparent framework of its obligations, criteria, duration and financing mechanisms. I have also heard the leaders of the Romeo and Patuanelli groups, as well as the President of the 8th Commission, and I have had extensive assurances that there will be no interruption of the service in the near future. We will look for a quick way to ensure that this service is maintained while waiting for the future race. It is also necessary to activate a separate agreement with the Spa Production Centre, of non-renewable duration, aimed exclusively at the continuation of the activities of conservation, networking and digitization of the archive compendium of Radio Radicale, with the protection of the independence of the editorial line in the choice of the events to be recorded for the next three years and for an amount that covers exclusively the cost of the personnel, necessary for the carrying out of such activity. This heritage cannot but be kept at the Unique Library House and Senate, accessible online, classified by sectors (institutional, judicial, political parties and movements, associations, unions, cultural events) and be available to all those who, for reasons of study or cultural interest, want to deepen the Italian history of the last forty years. Ladies and gentlemen, the new invitation to tender can only involve several public or private entities and will have to take place in a coherent, secure and transparent framework on the obligations and criteria for sustainable allocation and will define well the financing mechanisms. That is why the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of this motion and ask the other parliamentary groups, even if they have already spoken differently, for the same signal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u104	Mr Marcucci (PD). I would like to speak on the order of business: since we have difficulty in understanding the complete meaning of the remodulation of the text of the motion that was made during the suspension, let us try to understand - and we have also been very clear in the explanation of vote - whether the revised text presupposes a commitment of the Government to avoid interrupting the service existing in the mores of the legislation and the new race to be done quickly and everything that has been said. We would like the government to kindly give us an answer, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u105	Mr President, I am speaking in the knowledge that the debate could be reopened, but there is no problem, I am here all day long. I'd love to. FADELI (PD). I just want to know what you vote for! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It is not possible, to date, to renew in the absence of a law. I have already told the people we spoke to during the sitting. The commitment - the two majority leaders also confirmed this to his representative who was present at the meeting during the suspension - is that in the shortest possible time a law will be made in Parliament to do this. Since I have the opportunity to speak, I would like to represent an objective fact that I would like to be known to everyone. In the year 2019 - i.e. this in progress - Centro di Produzione spa received, or guaranteed for Radio Radicale, a public intervention of 9 million euros, compared to the 12 received in previous years. So, I don't accept the accusation that this year you're starving, until closing, Radical Radio. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I'm saying this to give you certain numbers. This concerns the year 2019. The public service provided by Radio Radicale with the Convention is limited exclusively to the transmission of parliamentary sessions. Everything else is different. That is the object of the convention that in twenty-five years, with right and left rulers, no one has ever changed. So, if the solutions were there, you could even take them first. We take the time to find solutions in the shortest possible period. I also say - and well come - that for the first time a government has interrupted and brought about a change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Change is a shock to the system, so that it can then be regulated well, as rightly said in the interventions that have been made before. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u107	About what, Senator Marcucci? You have the floor, although of course we do not reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u108	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I do not agree with your reference to the reopening of the debate, in the sense that we would have the right to reopen it. I do not intend to do so - I committed myself not to reopen it - but the Undersecretary had to give an answer. Instead, he wanted to conclude the general discussion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to point out that the change that Lega and Movimento 5 Stars propose to this country is the closure of Radio Radicale. We therefore confirm our vote against the majority motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u110	For what, Senator Gasparri? I'll give you a minute to par condice. There was a request for clarification following a rewording made in this House and it seemed right to accept the request. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u111	Mr President, I know the Rules of Procedure, so I have the floor. I will not abuse it, because I have no provocative, nor reckless intentions. However, I would like the will of the Undersecretary of Crimes and of his Group (it is useless for Di Maio to distinguish himself with statements of the last few days) to close Radio Radicale. I have ideas at the antipodes, for many events, from the radical world, but I think I am grateful to Radio Radicale. Thanks to Radio Radicale, I discovered something. In 2008 I made a very hard and hard controversy against the CSM - you think - with very serious words that were published on the front page the next day in all the newspapers. Palamara replied to me in 2008. Anyone who wants can go to the Radio Radicale archive. So, Radio Radicale has rendered a service to democracy, which Crimes and others want to cut off, and it is an absolute shame. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u112	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Mr Rauti and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion 109. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 110 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Steger and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 111. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 112, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 139 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marilotti and Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Senator Rampi approaches the government desks and delivers a radio to Undersecretary Santangelo. Ironic applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] I should like to inform the House that the planned Presidency Council convened at 2 p.m. will be convened at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u115	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the dramatic case that took place a few days ago, last Sunday, in the Netherlands, with the death of a 17-year-old girl who had suffered violence at 11 years of age, then at 12 years of age and again at 14 years of age. From all this pile of facts she had become ill with a syndrome that we could say of anorexia, accompanied by a serious depressive form, that actually led her to death, in a context in which she lacked the real aids that could have helped her to get out of the first violence suffered, avoiding the transition to a pathology so serious and widespread at this time, as is anorexia, and avoiding to make her fall into a crisis like depression, which according to WHO is the second cause of disease in the world. There was a whole series of steps where the girl asked for help and didn't get it. We know that at Christmas he had published a book, "Win or learn" in which he described the situation of health and social health facilities in the Netherlands, describing with extraordinary clarity its inadequacy to respond to needs. In all this it seems to me that, just as Parliament is preparing to reflect and discuss - on 24 September next - a measure on euthanasia, there is a call to absolute responsibility for what we do for women who suffer sexual violence in some way; how we accompany them; what is the psychological support service that we put at their disposal; how we try to avoid saying "don't think about it anymore," but rather: "how you can process this mourning"; how we take into account the cases in which these disorders of dietary behavior, such as anorexia, occur. Mr President, I would like to point out that in the Health Committee the draft law on eating behaviour disorders has already concluded its procedure - we are waiting for some opinions, which I do not know where they should come from - and could help us to take care of these people and, subsequently, the cases of depression. We have a path in which the metaphor is very well known in psychology, which is the complex of Pollicino: this girl left a series of traces, each of which was a request for help. I wonder what we do. I wouldn't want to get to September 24th with someone standing up to say that the simplest thing, at this point, is euthanasia, a beautiful state death, served and revered. I believe that we need to intervene first, to consider first all the necessary instruments - I insist - starting with the violence that is also suffered by teenagers and girls, with the psychological and psychotherapeutic accompaniment prolonged over time. It is urgent that our law, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Rizzotti, on eating disorders be adopted as soon as possible and only later we might ask ourselves what we have done for this person, especially to avoid the dramatic and superficial conclusion of those who, in the end, say that there was nothing else to do. There were a lot of things to do long before, and they weren't done. I hope that Parliament will learn and legislate point by point with all the seriousness, responsibility and solidarity we are capable of. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u118	BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, to the many forgotten disputes in this country, used only for electoral walks by the Minister of Labour and Economic Development and his colleagues, in recent days there have been very serious events for the lives of workers, workers and the productive system. I am referring to Mercatone Uno: 1,800 employees, plus the employees of the company, have learned about the company's failure and its dismissal from social media. They are workers who are humiliated twice, because of the loss of their jobs and because they did not have the opportunity to discuss why they were fired. How could this happen? How did it happen that the workers informed the Minister of Failure? How could it have happened that a procedure that is not immediate was not known to the Minister? What did the Minister do in a year to see if they were making the investments? And now, the Minister, has asked the court of Bologna, since there are thousands of workers without salary and without a cashier, for the 55 points of sale to be part of the extraordinary administration in order to activate the extraordinary cashier? Whirlpool by letter to the RSU communicates the dismissal, for cessation of the activity of the site of Naples, for 450 workers. Has Minister Di Maio this year listened to the company and the trade union organizations on investments, market developments, innovations that had to be made? Yesterday, at the former ILVA-Mittal, 1,400 workers from Taranto were placed in the ordinary integration fund. How many meetings has the Minister had over the past year? The Minister trusts the company so much that he cancels the monitoring meetings, where trade unions, local authorities and the company compare and decide whether to make innovations? Have you had confidential meetings and failed to inform workers' representatives? Mr President, through you, we ask, as President Marcucci has already asked in the last Bureau, that Mr Di Maio come to the Chamber or to the Commission - he decides - because he must know that we do not let ourselves be enchanted by the high tones, by the threats and by some swearing. This behavior of hers is a bad theater. What strategies does the Minister intend to adopt to solve the problems and give serenity to the workers? Come and tell us if he is autonomous, in his choices, from the company or is informed and does not tell people what the situations on which he produces the agreements are. Why don't you answer our questions? It is good that the Minister knows that his function is not to do upholstery, but to solve the problems of men and women, starting with those who have the most difficulties. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u121	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, yesterday in the prison of Capanne in Perugia there was yet another tragedy of the prison system: a 60-year-old prisoner committed suicide in prison, who was also detained at the end of his sentence. There is no use in trying to rescue, however timely, the health and safety personnel of the institute. A man with serious psychiatric problems, who reopens a fundamental question about the presence of prisoners who would need specific places of detention and management methods that ordinary institutions cannot guarantee, especially in the face of the deficiencies both of staff of prison police, as well as psychologists, social assistants and other specialists of the treatment area. Tragedy of a sad budget that sees 2018 as a record year of suicides in prison: 65. We need a law to prevent loneliness and discomfort that guarantees staff, but also treatment activities of educational and social recovery, starting from vocational training courses, especially today that we are on the threshold of a new state of prison overcrowding: 60,439 prisoners with an index of 120 percent overcrowding and in 42 institutes well of 150 percent, of which 12,000 condemned not definitive and 10,000 waiting for judgment. New problems and management issues that have worsened with the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals (OPG) waiting for the well-known system of Residences for the execution of security measures (Rems) to be completed. The malaise also affects the external criminal enforcement offices, with as many as 100,000 dependent persons, as well as 55 children under the age of three who live with mothers in our institutions. Tragedy, that of the prison in Perugia, to which must be added the least known tragedy of suicides among prison police operators, 35 in the last five years. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the issue of the working well-being of the prison police, in a context of overcrowding, of institutions in need of maintenance, with frequent events of aggressions and internal disorders, working hours with shifts well beyond the six ordinary hours. It is urgent to intervene in order to recognize this situation with useful initiatives, rapid initiatives and enhancement of the work carried out, often silently, with self-denial, in a context of profound human and organizational discomfort. Recent statistics show that 35.45 percent of agents would be at risk of suicide. There is therefore an urgent need for decisive intervention by the Government, because security must not be promised in the electoral campaign, but must also be guaranteed to the operators themselves of the security system, even in that hidden world that is that of criminal execution, the prison, where a silent humanity lives and operates. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u124	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, the so-called unblocking decree was adopted at first reading in this House today. On 6 May, during the debate on the measure, Mr Inail was also invited to hear about her experience. In this place, INAIL has told of an example that he has wished to emphasize as a good example and good practice, that is the realization of a school compared to the projects INAIL, that it was a strand party within the field of the scholastic construction during the last legislature, emphasizing how the school of Vaprio d'Adda, that is a small town in the province of Milan, is a project that can be considered as a flagship for the way in which it has been carried on and for the results that it could also obtain in the future. The school was presented as a model as an innovative school, designed according to criteria of environmental sustainability and able to offer services to the community even at the end of the lessons, with spaces that have been studied in order to make the school the center of the country. Among other things, INAIL has just contracted the works to the company that won the ban, so the work should begin. This is an important undertaking, with a commitment of almost EUR 7 million. Why this report? Because there was an electoral round, the administration that had followed this project changed and throughout the election campaign, those who have been candidates to represent the other party and who have won, have repeatedly declared their perplexity with respect to this project. We're worried about that. We are alarmed, because it would not be a positive signal to the community that has been waiting for this school for a long time. We are alarmed because it is a project that can only bring benefits. We are also alarmed because the strength that democratically won this electoral round is one of the forces that today approved the unblocking. Then why are we alarmed? Because we wouldn't want the unblocking, so launched and praised on a national scale, then find its blocks on a local scale. We think that common sense can always be a winner and we hope, therefore, that this school, according to all the phases that had been studied and according to the care of an administration that is no longer there, but that has always been confronted with citizens and teachers on this point, can instead flourish and find its right space. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-119.ana.u126	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 June, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.43 p.m.
