ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on March 19, seventeen years ago, a vile brigatist ambush struck an extraordinary servant of the State: Marco Biagi. A mild man, a educated man and a good man, who was returning home on a bike after spending another day working for his country, because in reality this is what Marco Biagi did incessantly, since the very young had completed his studies and undertaken the academic and professional path. He was listened to as advisor to various ministers, as well as a valuable consultant for local authorities and the European institutions. His studies in the field of justice were always inspired by the possibility of encouraging the adoption of active policies that could reconcile economic development and social development, competitiveness and security, flexibility and well-being. In his memory he continues a fruitful and qualified activity of scientific deepening, carried out by the universities of Modena and associations and study centers that are inspired by the reformist culture of Marco Biagi, with a significant commitment in the formation of the new generations of social researchers. To the family of Marco Biagi and all his students yesterday and today I would like to renew our gratitude, our closeness and our mourning. I invite you to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u4	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: On 8 March 2019 Mr President, I inform S. V. that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, accepted the resignation resigned by Professor Paolo SAVONA from the post of Minister without portfolio. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 12 March last, the Presidency received a letter with which Senator Marco Marsilio announced his resignation from the Senate following the election as President of the Regional Council of Abruzzo. Since the resignation was based on incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Assembly can only take note of it. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene for the identification of the successor Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u6	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u7	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, established at the request of certain Groups that, in the context of communications with a view to the European Council on 21 and 22 March, on the agenda of today's sitting, the President of the Council of Ministers would also report on the Memorandum of Understanding between the Italian Government and the Chinese Government in the context of the Via della Seta economic project. The President-in-Office of the Council will make a single introductory speech, followed by a single phase for discussion and explanations of vote, with the possibility of tabling separate resolutions for both issues under discussion. After the President-in-Office's communications, the sitting will continue with the reports and the start of the general discussion of the Junta's document on elections and parliamentary immunities concerning the authorization to proceed with the Minister of the Interior. The general debate will continue at tomorrow's sitting, followed by replies and explanations of vote, with a view to reaching a roll-call vote by electronic ballot at 1 p.m. Senators who have not taken part in the vote will be able to communicate their clear vote to the Secretary Senators until 7 p.m. Then the result will be proclaimed. Tomorrow afternoon will be dedicated to the inspection union. Motions of individual distrust of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport remain confirmed for Thursday 21 March: two calls will be given for votes. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers of the economy, agricultural policies and health.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u10	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Before your speech, Mr Conte, which we will listen carefully, in which you will tell us what you are going to say in Europe, I would like to tell you that Europe is also wondering whether Italy, with this Government, is losing those values that have marked it in its millennial history. You cannot fail to say anything today, for the umpteenth time, about what is happening on the Ionian ship off the coast of Lampedusa. It's not the exploitation of a single case, President. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] She didn't say anything about the Sea Watch. She didn't say anything about the Diciotti ship. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , a ship that is not of an NGO, but is a ship of the Italian Coast Guard, where people...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u11	Senator Pinotti, you don't have to answer directly, just answer me. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u12	Mr Pinotti (PD). A ship where people in uniforms - uniforms that the Minister of the Interior puts on all the time, but respect for people in uniforms proves otherwise [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - they have been forced to remain offshore with the persons on board the ship having no indication of what to do. The ports do not depend on the Minister of the Interior, Minister Toninelli: you are here and as Minister of Infrastructure the ports depend on you. President Conte, this is also up to you, because I heard Mr Salvini's interview on the NGO ship (the social centre ship). Well, if there are responsibilities they will be prosecuted, the judiciary will do so, Mr Salvini cannot do so, but today you cannot allow people once again to be held hostage in order to face up to, in fact, immigration policies that are lacking in terms of return. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Get those people off the ship, Mr. President, let them down for the dignity of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u15	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Again? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yeah, again. I have every right to speak in this House and to ask, since we have the President of the Council today, for responsibility, at last, for this matter. For the umpteenth time, we are faced with a conflict, which is somehow ratified, between saving people, and therefore between the primacy - President, I address you - of the salvation of human lives and the rules and counter-rules (we could discuss for a long time the directive recently issued). We want once again, President-in-Office of the Council, a word that does not refer only to Europe, but to our responsibility. You have waged a war against all NGOs. We are now facing the Ionian Sea ship, an Italian ship, which has done its duty, namely to gather 49 people who were in a very serious situation, for fourteen hours at the mercy of the sea. That's the point. We ask you, therefore, once again, Mr President, now that we have communications on the European Council, not just to tell us what you are going to say in Europe, but to assume your responsibilities. The assumption of a responsibility, President Conte, that at this moment is to let in the ship, that it is Italian territory. Then, once and for all, on this story of the closure of the ports, we have never seen any trace of measures, despite then you do the cover to the Minister of the Interior. There is Toninelli: from time to time someone comes to explain and show us the measure on the closure of territorial waters. Have you declared war on anyone? Is there a war going on? Is there an epidemic problem going on? This story continues to go on, but the problem is only one: for pure purposes of blackmail, as it was for the ship Diciotti we will discuss shortly, or for media purposes, you continue to pursue a policy that has only the interest of propaganda and, once again, tramples on the right of the sea and all international laws and above all, which we press, does not take into account the primary value of belonging to the human species. Then we will also talk about climate change, but belonging to the human species implies human solidarity, which is primarily the duty, the instinct, which should be natural, to save human lives. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u18	ENDRIZZI (M5S). In what capacity? CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise to understand what is happening in this House, because I did not quite understand whether we opened a debate on Italian immigration policy, on NGOs, on combating illegal immigration. In this case, we ask to review the time of discussion and extend the time available to the Groups, because we would have many things to say on this topic and on the story of the ship Mare Ionio, on who the captain, on the characters of the social centers made protagonists, in a past not too far, of episodes of free violence to the detriment of the political opponents. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Now they have become the new champions of immigration, reception, humanitarian policies, which they did not practice when they were active in Padua, Veneto and other parts of Italy, President. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] If we are to discuss this, we are very happy to discuss it, but we want to have enough time to do so, to argue, to talk about naval blockades and a thousand other things. Otherwise, I would ask that the debate be limited to what is envisaged by the Conference of Leaders: European Council, trade policies with the Chinese and Via della Seta agreement. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u19	The next item is: Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2018 and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Italian Government and the Chinese Government in the context of the economic project "Via della Seta" and subsequent discussion of the matter. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, following the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, there will be a single stage for discussion and explanations of vote. The timing of the debate was divided between the Groups for a total of two hours. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u20	Mr President, kind senators and senators, I am here, as planned, for communications with a view to the European Council on 21 and 22 March. However, I cannot help but make a few remarks. I was urged, as head of government, to intervene on this last emergency case. In this respect, I would like to say that there has been talk of taking responsibility. Whoever speaks to you, on behalf of the Government, has always assumed from the beginning the responsibility that belongs to the Government and will continue to do so. Tomorrow this House will be called on to comment on the matter concerning Vice-President Salvini and the President of the Council of Ministers, who is speaking to you today, tomorrow will come back, because on this matter - as I have already said - there is a clear political line on migration that this Government subscribes and the head of the Commission subscribes first. It is a policy that can please, it can be questionable. Several political guidelines have been expressed in the past and it is not up to me today to assess the results. For our part, we have judged them unsatisfactory, starting from a conceptual and practical reality: the concept of reception is different from that of disembarkation. Allowing indiscriminate landings without limits does not amount to providing reception. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups. Comments from the PD Group]] I say this without taking away anything from those who thought differently and made different assessments. We felt that a different approach was needed for what I like to call not the phenomenon of migration, but the political, legal, economic and social problem of regulating and managing migratory flows. The assumption is that this overall problem must be tackled with a structural approach and so as not to be overwhelmed by the emerging case. Of course, I cannot dedicate my communications today to unraveling the emergency case, because we are dealing with it with the relevant offices and ministries. To reassure you - because I understand the concerns and have also been evoked fundamental interests of the person - I would like to remind you that, in all the emerging cases (even the most dramatic ones, which have had the honors of the news in the media for several days), we have always protected the fundamental rights of the people and we have always intervened promptly to ensure health care for the needy. On the contrary, since we are talking about this emergency case, I would like to point out to you that a medical aid (which has proved superfluous, because there are no pathologies) has also been provided to one of the migrants of the Mare Ionio ship. And so we will continue to do also because - be careful - we believe that discouraging landings not only more effectively counteracts the trafficking of human beings (which is unworthy of any civilized country), but - of course - also avoids danger. In fact, apart from the fact that, when these paths begin, the dangers begin from the country of origin, the greatest danger - alas - as has been demonstrated in recent years, is precisely when people cross the Mediterranean. Coming to us, I would like to focus on the next European Council, which is the fourth to which I will take part since I have the honour to chair the Italian Government and the fifth if we also consider the extraordinary Council which took place on 25 November, during which we approved the withdrawal agreement with the United Kingdom and the political declaration. This fourth European Council takes on a particular political significance because it takes place two months before the elections for the new European Parliament and at the same time faces crucial challenges for Europe today and tomorrow. There is a link between the main issues on the agenda at the European Council. I refer to the European Union's ability to tackle together, as global leaders, issues that are on the agenda: the Brexit Summit, the European Union's relationship with China, the priority of growth, employment, industrial development and innovation, in the face of the international slowdown in the economy and, finally, climate change. If the European Union is unable to remain united, it will not be able to be strong or competitive, first of all politically, in defining and pursuing its position with regard to the priorities just mentioned, with respect to which it is clear that no national state, moving in isolation, will ever be able to ensure and guarantee a complete and effective protection of its national interests. In this sense, Italy fully recognises itself in a European approach, as the only forerunner of a better future for our citizens and for the citizens of the whole continent. The need for a Europe that is united within and strong in the world must be borne in mind even more in the present phase of the end of the European legislature. With a view to changing the European Parliament and the European Commission, the role of the European Council and therefore of the governments is even more important - if you will allow me to do so. This primary body of the Union must therefore have discussions and take decisions with a true European spirit, capable of keeping the Union cohesive, which has now expanded - we have reached 28 Member States - and which needs, now more than ever, unity of intent and a spirit of solidarity within it. In order to be strong in the world - I will return to this point when I reason for relations with China and the United Kingdom - Europe must be a global player already within it, developing appropriate strategies for growth, work, industrial development and innovation. Unfortunately, I see that I am very concerned about a procyclical and procedural European approach, which in the last few years has clearly proved inadequate in relation to the challenge of growth and the need for a balance between reduction and risk sharing. The global economic slowdown is having an impact on the economic situation in Europe and needs a European response, with a strengthening of domestic demand and a boost to growth through increased investment and more courageous reforms. In particular, the need for a revival of domestic demand is supported by new empirical evidence, authoritatively produced and argued, that in this revival identify the right response to the need that European economic growth is not too dependent on external demand, i.e. e xport, and the risk of a possible structural trend of the world economy to stagnation. In this perspective, in particular, Member States with fiscal or trade surpluses should use them to support public demand and investment, so as to enable Europe to grow to full potential and react to tensions caused by others, strengthening and making its economy more resilient. The constant urge for growth and competitiveness is to be welcomed if it is aimed at increasing the standards of living of European citizens, but it is to be rejected if it hides a mere mercantile spirit: it is forbidden by European rules, which cannot be invoked only when deemed convenient. To be more explicit, we believe that labour productivity growth must feed workers' wage growth. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , rather than encouraging the accumulation of trade surpluses, which, moreover, beyond a certain measure, are prohibited by the same European rules. These aspects must be at the heart of the discussion of a European Council that looks at the reality of a continent that still suffers from too many asymmetries at work (I say this especially with regard to young people) and on growth and still has to complete that social pillar adopted in November 2017 at the informal summit in Gothenburg. It is a European impetus to growth, work and social security that I hope will be oriented towards the debate that the European Council will have on the market, against which we must promote the removal of unjustified barriers, particularly in the service sector, with calls for the Commission to present and implement a long-term vision for Europe's industrial future; greater investment in research and innovation; fairer competition within it and globally, with an ambitious trade policy and protecting the European Union against unfair practices. The European Union, also with a view to the new legislature after the elections to the European Parliament, must work on a genuine European industrial strategy, capable of creating growth and jobs through the support, with adequate resources, of new technologies, research and innovation and capable of protecting European companies and markets from aggressive strategies of third countries. These commitments and the primary objective of supporting growth, work and social inclusion are at the heart of the Italian Government's action, but the challenge of an economy that grows and creates jobs requires a European effort, as demonstrated by the recent controversy about communications technology. We should ask ourselves why an economic space crowded by half a billion people, with levels of education among the highest, with standards of living among the highest in the world, has not been able to develop on the subject of telecommunications an infrastructure at the frontier of technology, capable of fully satisfying all its own and new needs. I do not believe, frankly, that it is due to lack of intelligence or research resources; rather, I believe that this inefficiency reveals another manifestation of the lack of long-term vision of Europe that Italy can remedy by relaunching the idea of a Europe that is the protagonist in the world. This is a path in which Italy, the founder country and the European and global industrial power, intends to play its part and to work to ensure that industrial policy, including in support of small and medium-sized enterprises and in regulating State aid to European companies, is accompanied by a balanced approach and convergence policies, without which only some Member States will be able to bear the costs of this industrial policy. As far as trade policy is concerned, it is essential to preserve the European Union's cohesion vis-à-vis other global actors, from the United States (with which the Union must continue the dialogue and the positive trade agenda that was established between President Juncker and President Trump on 25 July) to China, on which I will of course focus shortly. Before doing so, I consider it necessary to recall Italian support for an ambitious EU approach to climate change, which I consider to be an essential component of a modern European economy and which will be the subject of a short paragraph of the European Council conclusions, aimed at consolidating a unified language with respect to an intense agenda of the EU Environment Council. The European Union must dedicate the best of its ability to adapt to global change to the challenge of climate change. Here too, national efforts alone are not enough to ensure a better future. The theme of sustainability is also central to the growth of the continent. Europe's growth potential - and this is often overlooked - could return to the levels experienced in the past if we only decided to speed up the transition to a decarbonised Europe. A large public investment plan, aimed at this purpose, would also give a great boost to private investment, ensuring robust eco-growth for the whole continent. This vision is consistent with the recent call authoritatively made by President Mattarella on 12 March last in Belluno, on the occasion of the commemorative ceremony of the flood that afflicted the Veneto Region last October. The economic session of the European Council will not have, unlike last December's European Council, a consideration in the form of Eurosummit; it remains no less the subject of our attention to the path towards the Eurosummit in June which, with a partially attenuated legitimacy, following the elections for the European Parliament at the end of May, will have to implement, prepared by the Eurogroup, the decisions of the Eurosummit last December. However, there are issues at stake - and it is appropriate to dwell on this for a moment - which are of fundamental importance to the future economic and financial framework of the European Union. I merely refer, among others, to the issues of the eurozone budget, the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme (EDIS) and the amendments to the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism. In particular, the discussion on the definition of a fiscal instrument for competitiveness and convergence, the eurozone budget, within the next multiannual financial framework, is currently open within the Eurogroup. The issue is very sensitive to our national interests: as always, any new instrument can be useful and effective to strengthen our economic and financial system, but, on the contrary, it can also be very insidious, depending on how it is conceived and concretely structured. For Italy - and I want to clarify this now - it is a priority that this instrument should be of adequate size, including its ability to borrow on the financial markets, which offers real support for investments and reforms, which have anti-cyclical and stabilisation functions and, above all, that it should not be subject to cross-compliance that will penalise those Member States that most need structural reforms and investments. The discussion on external relations, scheduled for the working dinner of the European Council on Thursday 21, will concern relations between the European Union and China, in view of the European Union-China Summit, scheduled as you know for 9 April, which could follow by a few days - and the subject, you understand, is not to be overlooked - the conclusion of the ongoing economic and trade negotiations between Washington and Beijing. The European Union-China Summit in Brussels will also take place just over two weeks after the conclusion of President Xi Jinping's State visit to Italy. I can therefore repeat to the European counterparts on Thursday the full coincidence between the Italian vision of the relationship with China and the strategy followed by the European Union, which will even be reinforced by the Italian approach. I trust that on 9 April our memorandum with Beijing on the Belt and Road initiative - one of the many agreements that will be signed, I would like to point out - will not give much more attention. In these days, however, the public's attention is high and clearly also yours towards the contents and purposes of this document. I have already had the opportunity to point out and state publicly: this is not an international agreement. It does not create legal constraints. If we really wanted to define it from a technical point of view, we could, more correctly, reason for a mere programmatic understanding which, I repeat, while not giving rise to legally binding commitments, outlines objectives, principles, ways of collaboration within the Belt and Road initiative, which is a great project of Euroasian connectivity and which, since its launch, in 2013 (so, not yesterday and not even the day before yesterday), has attracted the interest of Italy and its Governments. Our economic-commercial attention to these infrastructures and China itself is fully legitimate and is justified precisely in the light of our national interests. By this way - let us be careful - we will be able to increase our exports to a huge market. Our companies will have the chance to participate directly in the realization of new and important infrastructural investments. Our peninsula, and in particular our ports, our commercial ports of call, will not be so bypassed by the new traffics, but they will also be able to fully enjoy the economic advantages and enhance their geographical position as natural terminals of this new Silk Road. Attention: the perimeter of the memorandum on the Belt and Road is exquisitely economic-commercial. It does not call into question our Euro-Atlantic position. Its content, which has been negotiated for long months with Beijing, involving all the administrations concerned, presents no risk to our national interests and is fully in line with the European Union's strategy, promoting it, indeed, as no Member State has done so far in its dialogue with Beijing. Indeed, the memorandum sets out very clearly the cooperation on the Belt and Road, in line with the principles expressly recalled by the 2030 Agenda, the Agenda 2020 of European Union-China Cooperation and the European Union strategy for Euro-Asian connectivity, which are the cornerstones of the European Union's approach to China. It also strongly promotes shared European principles of mutual benefit, reciprocity, transparency, sustainability, protection of intellectual property and provides for the creation of a real level playing field. I can therefore well claim, and rightly so, that our approach to Belt and Road is among the most forward-looking and effective that has ever been applied in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I would also like to point out, because the issue is not negligible and, therefore, I also offer it to the public debate, that other Member States, although they have not entered into similar agreements with Beijing, already cooperate much more than we do on this initiative. The truth is that Italy has chosen a transparent approach, formalising collaboration with China in a well-defined framework, thus preferring to make clear the fundamental pillars of the European matrix from which we let ourselves be inspired. Compared to the memorandum of understanding signed by other countries, outside and within the European Union, ours establishes a much more explicit link with the lines and norms of the European Union and more strongly promotes the values and interests of Italy. And if you will allow me, this is a great advantage for Europe itself. On this last point I would like to point out that the attention of the Government has not been exhausted with the negotiation of the memorandum. As in collaborations with other countries, the Italian Government will, within the framework of the Belt and Road, monitor closely the individual collaborative initiatives that will be launched downstream of the memorandum to ensure that they too are promoted with attention to the defence of national interests, the protection of strategic infrastructures, also those in the digital field, and preventing the transfer of technologies in sensitive sectors. The debate at the European Council, at the European Union-China Summit on 9 April, will be followed by my participation (I have already anticipated my accession) in the second edition of the Belt and Road Forum in Beijing on 26 and 27 April. The Forum, which will bring together a large number of countries, will offer me another opportunity to promote, in a spirit of cooperation with Beijing, what must be the Italian and European vision on the Belt and Road initiative. At the debate on relations with China, the European Council will come after a session - the opening session, Thursday 21 afternoon - in which, in format 27 (without the United Kingdom obviously), the latest developments relating to Brexit will be discussed. Despite the additional negotiating efforts on the Irish issue and the agreement reached by May and Juncker on 11 March, last week - you know - there was a second negative vote by the British Parliament on the ratification of the withdrawal agreement. This decision took place a few days after the date set for leaving the European Union, which I remember is 29 March 2019. Despite the limited time available, we must seize the positive messages that emerged from the votes following that on ratification, with which the British Parliament expressed its will to avoid a Brexit without agreement, and we must work together with European partners to ensure a clear and friendly exit, calling for a postponement of the exit time from the European Union. It is therefore very likely that the 27 Heads of State and Government at the European Council will be called upon to discuss an extension of the date of exit. As anticipated by the British Government itself, however, it will not be a blank extension but, if necessary, a functional postponement to the objective of ensuring an orderly withdrawal. As we have always done during this laborious - let me say this - negotiation, with very complex dynamics, we will continue to work for an orderly Brexit, in full respect of the will of the British people and the decisions of the London Parliament, but also reaffirming the need for greater responsibility and greater clarity in the interests of our citizens and our businesses. The hope is that these days' decisions in London will ensure that the United Kingdom exits the European Union in an orderly manner so that we can build a future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom that is equal to the deep, special relations we have built with the British in more than four decades of common participation in the process of European integration. In a context that still maintains strong elements of uncertainty, the Italian Government will continue to work to ensure the protection of the rights of citizens, our businesses and financial stability, even in the hypothesis, which is really not desirable, of a non-agreement exit (the famous no deal) for March 29, 2019. In addition to the above-mentioned issues, a brief paragraph is added to the conclusions, which are reserved for a state of the art on actions against misinformation, with an invitation to online platforms and social networks to ensure high standards of accountability and transparency. In June, the European Council will receive a report on the elections which the Presidency will prepare with the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mogherini. For Italy, a coordinated European effort on a phenomenon now perceived in many European countries as a threat to democracy is necessary, precisely because of the complex and plural nature of the problem and its pitfalls. Disinformation, coming from a multiplicity of state and non-state actors, requires a multidimensional and broad strategic approach, which alongside enhanced international cooperation also includes a long-term investment in the formation of young people and, of course, does not neglect the delicate profiles of the necessary guarantee of freedom of information, which is the essential foundation of our democracies. It is precisely the full protection of democracy, including in terms of the right to work, security and well-being, which makes it necessary for European leaders to have a strategic vision and a boost to broader European policies. In this spirit, the European Council will be able to address the transition to the post-election phase of the European Parliament, in line with a demand for change that - be careful - crosses the whole continent and deserves urgent answers, that can fulfil the conditions for a better future for our citizens. I am very grateful for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u21	Motions for resolutions must be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u22	Before we begin the discussion, I would like to greet on behalf of the Assembly the teachers and students of the State Institute of Higher Education (Caduti della Directissima) in Castiglione dei Pepoli, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u23	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u24	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, frankly I do not like the controversy over the controversy and you have made a reflection which, in a large part of your speech, is hard not to share. When he says that no national state, moving in isolation, will ever be able to ensure a complete and effective protection of its national interests, and that in this sense Italy fully recognizes itself in a European approach as the only harbinger of a better future for our citizens and for that of the whole continent, Mr President, the Group for the Self-Governments, which I have the honour to represent here certainly subscribes to these declarations in full. I could mention others, for example you are, of course, complaining about Europe's lack of perspective on certain issues: I think that this too is difficult to share. The real point, however, is one, and on this, if possible, I would like to make you think: you say things that are broadly acceptable, but the perception that exists in Europe and in general of our Government's European approach is totally different. There are two cases then: either you - legitimately, as a reasonable person - can somehow make a facial plastic of the government's real policy or, second, there is a revision, which I would personally like to hope, of the government's European policy. In this period, the Government, with all its ministers, has shown a fierce face towards Europe every other day, but perhaps today most of the Ministers themselves begin to understand that this approach is wrong. Let me give an example: we know that France and Germany have signed the bilateral cooperation treaty of Aachen. France and Germany have always been, for good and for bad, the driving force behind Europe. But where is the place of Italy? Is Italy's place in criticism of these countries or in sharing, complicity and collaboration with these countries to give new enamel to a Europe that certainly has problems that it cannot solve? Mr President, we feel very sincerely and hope that there will be a critical review of the government's policy and that Italy will resume the place it has always had. You have said a lot of things that are acceptable and, moreover, we do not have the elements on Brexit not because you do not provide them or we do not have them, but because the British do not provide them, because they have a very difficult situation. However, you have highlighted the controversy about One Belt One Road and all the controversy that has arisen on the Silk Road, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the controversy that has occurred a conspiracy against Italy or is it the result of something different? Let me say that in international politics acts, words and polemics have consequences. The United States of America is in a trade war, particularly China, and they want to create a situation of contrast precisely because of the fear of commercial penetrations, but what is the real problem today? It is that if you question the Atlantic location of Italy - and you did very well to explain that this location is not in question - this is because there are some backgrounds. We had a Minister of Defence who, from morning to evening, without having asked the Foreign Minister who had declared himself completely unaware about this, explained that Italy withdrew from Afghanistan; then we have a polemic on the F-35 issue, which is not only a set of negotiated orders, but also a set of commitments made at international level. Let us move on: the European community has taken a stand with the United States on Venezuela, and we, here too, have distinguished ourselves. So, there are reasons that are at the root of a distrust that is growing towards Italy by the international community. You yourself spoke of the need for a more united Europe in terms of trade. We know that this is the specific competence of the European Union, but we hope that the conciliation that your Government brings to the table of European partners is to work together on the issue of the Silk Road. We do not need any further escapes, although the Government has obviously worked in these hours to clear the treaties and you can rightly tell us that this memorandum of understanding does not have legally binding commitments. We are well aware that other European countries have a trade penetration and stronger relations with China than we do. We are friends of China and we believe that the Government is doing very well to work for trade agreements in the right direction, but we ask you to be part of a European plan because we are not even able to do them - frankly - because others, if they want, do them better than we do. We are the country of Europe most interested in a Europe that takes off. If your words in this House today are a sign that there is a revision of this first year's evil polemics against Europe every other day by the Ministers of your Government, we do not look back. Between the glass half empty and half full I keep the glass half full because I am a patriot and because I am interested in Italy going in the right direction, regardless of who governs. Governments pass, but Italy remains. The real point is that I strongly hope that the management will finally correct itself and that with this report there will be a discontinuity between a first part of its government and a second part. We know that there is an election campaign, there are European elections, there will be a thousand polemics: we hope that they do not pollute and poison the wells of politics. We need to find a conjunction of common intentions and destiny with other European countries, because we are completely irrelevant; in fact, this also applies to France and Germany. When we think that in the year in which I was born, 1955, the European Union represented 45% of world GDP while today it has 20%, we realize how we cannot afford to proceed in scattered order, so that we all become irrelevant. But our government must recover that European spirit that we have not seen in these months. Other considerations will be made by my colleagues. I just want to say that I hope that this European Council can be productive and good results. I would also like to express my wish with regard to the United Kingdom: we have a common destiny with the United Kingdom; I personally believe that it was a huge mistake to vote on Brexit, demonstrating that there are no lonely escape routes, and I say this to all the sovereigns. We should be sovereignists, but we should be European sovereignists. For us, our true sovereignism is to return to identifying ourselves in a common destiny with our European partners: this is the positive sovereignism that I want to evoke. And I hope that the United Kingdom will recover, with these negotiations in the Cesarini area, a sense of a common destiny that inevitably has with the rest of Europe. I wish you good work and we hope that the European summit will be positive for all the citizens of our continent. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u26	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his report. The issues that will be discussed at the next European Council are a summary of the issues that our European partners have been discussing for a long time. The issue of economic recovery, the environmental issue, the issue of EU relations in this case are on a multipolar international scenario, the same applies to the issue of disinformation. I will concentrate, leaving some elements of discussion, only on some of these fronts, particularly the economic one and the environmental one, very dear to me. First of all, it is essential, Mr President, to act in the face of economic change. As we know, the rules imposed by the European Union on the budgets of the States have inhibited economic expansion and, with the labour reforms approved in recent years, they have also increased precariousness and unemployment. That is why we need to do what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have called an effort of collective responsibility, and to tackle the issue of employment and youth unemployment by pursuing effective protection of the dignity of the person, which protects both the wages of citizens and the unemployed, for example by providing European unemployment insurance, as well as the introduction of a minimum European wage. The Government of Change has already shown that it is a viable path through the introduction of citizenship income and related reforms, such as the 100th share. These are measures which - as I recall - in addition to supporting the weakest sections of the population, also allow new liquidity to be introduced into the internal market and thus increase employment. But this is why we need to overcome the dogma of budget balance, which strikes with the need to re-launch a public role of the economy with investments and infrastructure works. That's why it's time to get out of the growth-stability dilemma. This does not prevent Italy and the European partners from carrying out courageous reforms of the Union's political functioning, starting from the centrality of the European Parliament, which today, as we know, has a relatively significant impact on the internal decision-making processes of the European Union. It's not enough. The European Union must have an industrial strategy to support common research and innovation, while respecting the peculiarities of individual realities. One example of all is 5G technology, on which the European Union is unable at this time to produce a technical-economic response. I would like to end with a few comments on climate change, another very important issue we will be discussing. On climate change, it is necessary to go beyond the obvious limits of so-called sustainable development, and here too a common line is needed, making the European Union a global player in the promotion of decarbonisation and renewable sources. I would now like to leave another consideration to the acts, but I do so more freely, because it is an issue on which I have been thinking in recent days. Ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly have noticed, because we are all very careful, that last week was marked by a fact, that is, the great mobilization by an important population group, especially the youth, in support of the fight against climate change and to require a greater effort from governments. There is a character who has catalysed public attention and is the young Swedish girl, Greta, who has become the leader of this movement. Well, there was also a controversy over a photo published by this girl while she was on a train, but it was an instrumental controversy on which I don't want to add anything else. There is, however, one important element, which was his answer, in which some of the keys are read and a possible solution to the problem. The girl rightly said, in response to the useless and instrumental controversy about her use of some plastic packs, that she had to make a long journey and to face a long journey that was her only way to get food. He replied that he could not do otherwise: I think that this is a very important element on which our citizens probably confront each other every day. None of our citizens is placed under the appropriate conditions to buy and move in a sustainable way within a labour market, but also in a market for goods and consumption, which all too often force us not to follow sustainable practices. I believe that this is the direction to go, and that is what I found in your words, both in this morning's speech in the House and in this afternoon's speech in the Senate. Thank you, ma'am. Good job. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u27	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Lazio Region following the resignation of Senator Marco Marsilio, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Nicola Calandrini. I acknowledge the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities of this communication and I proclaim Senator Nicola Calandrini. [[Applause]] I warn you that from now on it will start with regard to the new proclaimed the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints. Welcome to Senator Nicola Calandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u28	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. (16.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, listening to you on the European policy of Italy is an increasing pleasure from time to time, because you are becoming increasingly familiar with it, and above all it is a relief, after the picks that your ministers give to that policy between one European Council and the other. This is painful for her and for the country, because it is a scheme that we now know well, according to which her ministers "break but not pagan", actually lucrano or they think to lucare in terms of consensus, sending fragments a European policy of Italy built over time and the "pieces" are not them but are his, and ours as Italian citizens, because despite his efforts - I honestly say - very commendable, has never been so low and so misunderstood the foreign policy of our country, in particular in Europe. I was in Berlin last week, invited to a hearing at the Bundestag on a document that I had prepared on behalf of the three European institutions on the Union's seven-year budget, and then I saw various personalities I had known for a long time and also new ones, like the new President of the CDU, and inevitably the conversation also went on Italy, even if I gave considerable curbs, because that was not the objective of my mission in Berlin. However, I have noticed their total confusion, that probably when they meet with her, being, like her, men and women of the world, they manage enough to mask. There is a really very delicate situation, which is poorly reconciled with the presentations you make to us and which, as President Casini said, are consistent - let us not say conventional - and in line with the Europeanism of Italy. I would like to conclude by asking myself how we could help her to become an architect designer of Italy's European foreign policy from that ex post restorer of Italy's European policy that she is forced to be today. Well, maybe it's not impossible. I had already allowed myself here, on a recent occasion, President, to remind you of Article 95 of our Constitution, which you know very well: looking at the last six to eight months - and we are still before the debates for the European elections - the foreign policy of Italy and the European one have been the scene of the triumph of incompetence. The line has been set by impromptu verbal - or digital - outputs of this or that member of the Government, better if unprepared in merit and incompetent in the role. You and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on several occasions, have been denied by this or that Vice-President of the Council, on other occasions you have sketched out and mended, but it is the interests and consideration of Italy that go in the middle. Now that, in my opinion - and I think many people believe - the President-in-Office of the Council seems strengthened and appreciated - I am making an innocent proposal that will seem bureaucratic to you - perhaps he could send the national and foreign media a brief statement of the following: The President of the Council recalls that any statement by members of the Government, including the Vice Presidents of the Council, which does not concern matters of their respective competence, does not represent the position of the Italian Government. If such statements are made by party representatives, they will have to indicate that the declaration is issued in that capacity. In particular, diplomatic bodies are invited not to consider the above statements as an expression of the positions of the Italian Republic. In the face of such crystalline innocence, I want to see who might differ from you in the government you chair. This is scholastic and eager, but excuse me, President, why should we Italians accept that our country and our flag are smeared and often covered with ridicule precisely by politicians who every day call us to the values of the nation, of the country, of sovereignty? You, in my opinion, are on the right track to put an end to this fair of incoherence and contempt for Italians - you call on Italians first, but first the Italians in the sense of ridicule, often - to give dignity, coherence and again with regard to Italy's foreign and European policy. In this work too, Mr President, good mission to Brussels and then to Beijing. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of discussion over the past few weeks about climate and the rise in temperatures and the negative, environmental and social aspects of the problem. A special IPCC report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has shown that one of the negative consequences of global warming will be the decline in food production in the world as the population increases. The document clearly shows the possible risks associated with food shortages and the possibility of conflicts arising due to an increase in the number of people suffering from hunger and thirst. The areas most affected will be those where they already insist and there are food safety problems. Various analyses have shown that the Mediterranean is a hot spot for climate change, where variations in temperatures and water conditions will be more evident. As far as agriculture is concerned, the figures show that there will be supply problems: for each level of heating, the harvest of cereals (rice, maize, wheat) will fall from 3% to 10%. This will result in a reduction in the amount of feed for farms with reduced meat, eggs and milk. There will also be an increase in diseases and parasites and the catch will drop by 10 percent. In view of this, the path towards human-sized agriculture is the key to a future in which the protection of the environment and health and respect for the primary rights of communities must return to their priority in our scale of values. The choice of sustainable solutions is now imperative, bringing first the real needs of the communities and the protection of the environment, undermining the interests of increasingly aggressive forms of business. It is therefore urgent to return to agricultural practices that should not be supported by the use of pesticides, focusing on food crops, production commensurate with the real needs of the communities, organic fertilizers derived from aerobic composting, agronomic techniques that increase soil fertility, encourage biodiversity and preserve the quality of water and food; in particular, actions that go towards reducing the consumption of soils for food production, a measure that we are already working on at national level in the relevant Commissions. But that is not enough: choices must be made worldwide to remain below the threshold of 1.5 degrees Celsius of temperature increase. That is why we must take strong and decisive action. The current climate change, in fact, for speed and characterization, are only and exclusively linked to human interventions and this position has been recognized by the major international scientific agencies. The states and supranational organizations must first and foremost heal the great gap between scientific findings and the political world and precisely by science to be guided to find remedies for the serious and irreparable damage that we are causing to the planet and to mankind. We also call for agriculture to proceed in the direction of changing all those practices that currently favour, determine and accelerate climate change irreversiblely. We must proceed on this path, otherwise we will arrive at the disappearance of mankind and at the end of the planet. In this scenario, Italy can and must be an active part of all these climate and environmental protection policies. The European system initially saw as the only solution to the issue of climate change that of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for which agriculture is also responsible, to an extent of 15%. In recent years we have realised that a whole range of adaptation strategies must be associated with these mitigation strategies. We must ensure that agriculture can adapt to these climatic changes. That is why we expressly call for more and more measures in the new rural development programmes to be linked to the possibility for farmers to adapt in the short term to these new climatic conditions. At the same time, however, a number of policies should be promoted to reduce the percentage of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere for which agriculture is responsible. President Conte, thank you for your precise, timely and clear report. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u32	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u33	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the mission you are preparing to carry out on Thursday and next Friday, the issues are certainly of great importance. I want to send you three messages. The first has to do with what President Monti said earlier. You, President Conte, have, even recently, measured in European fora the distrust of Italy, sometimes marked by stereotypes. I do not want to fuel a debate that risks being exaggerated, but that distrust must be dissipated, because the main challenges pass through Europe. Therefore, the first invitation that we want to make you, President Conte, is to try hard to sew up the rift that happened with some countries historically allied with us in the main challenges. If there is going to be a lot of talk about Venezuela or Russia, it is important to maintain the European consensus, to be compact and to give the idea that we are investing in the Community dimension. It is important because, if we do so on those dossiers, it is easier to address also the issue of the management of migratory flows. Mr Conte, I listened very carefully to you when you said that the problem is not to allow unlimited landings. Nobody here wants to allow unlimited landings; we are all convinced that a structural solution must be found in Europe. But you must give me an answer. On 7 and 8 March, when we discussed important issues in Brussels such as the reform of the Dublin Rules of Procedure, the reettlement and the redistribution of refugees (where in the past we had obtained compulsory redistribution, today it is on a voluntary basis), where was our Minister of the Interior in this fundamental and important step? He was making a meeting in Potenza. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's where you have to go. I understand your ambition and this - legitimate - desire to be a policeman, in clothing, in clothing and also in asking to arrest people, but your job is another: it is to participate in international summits. On six meetings of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, he attended only one. I think that, as President of the Council of Ministers, it should be your interest that the Minister of the Interior participates in the forums where we discuss and decide on that approach, which we share and which you said before should be structural. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, there can't always be an emergency and it's not with muscle tests that the problem is solved. The second theme is that of Brexit. I agree with you: no blank extension, no blind extension. We agree. However, in addition to saying this, we want to know very quickly and we want the Government to report, after the European Council on Thursday and Friday (which will address the issue of extending the time limits provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union), on possible contingency plans in the event - which no one wants - that Britain decides to leave without an agreement. We are talking about 23 billion exports, more than twice as much as we import from Britain. They risk taking the MAC clauses and we can't afford it. We would like to understand - I know you are working on it - what are the emergency plans in case of no deal. This is a crucial point for us. The other point concerns a warning for sovereignists and Eurosceptics. Attention, when you scream at our slogans, and you campaign, you have to be careful, because the case of the United Kingdom shows that - then - it is our own people who pay. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They would risk paying for economic operators and citizens working within the United Kingdom. Then there is the theme of China. I heard your words, President Conte. You even spoke of a more far-sighted operation by the Italian Government. I remind you that in recent years, thanks to the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments, the Italian-China business forum has been established and the trade deficit has shortened, bringing it under 15 billion euros. Therefore, the sectoral agreements: let's increase them and allow our country system to be competitive and present with small and medium-sized enterprises, because the bigger ones do it themselves. But do you know what we're worried about? We are concerned about joining a global project without an in-depth intercourse with our historical partners within the Atlantic Alliance and within the European dimension, because this is not just an economic-commercial project, but an alternative vision in geopolitics and in the construction of a new international order, in which China legitimately aspires to be a reference point for developing countries and non-aligned countries. Therefore, be careful: we can stay within this project, but first we need to define the European framework. There is a summit on 9 April between the European Union and Asia: let us define the European framework, let us speak with our historical partners within the Atlantic Alliance and then move on along this path. I say this because China has built a series of strategic points in that maritime way that contrast with the main ally we have within the Atlantic Pact. We see the investments on the main Straits, in Malacca, in the new port of Gwadar, in Pakistan (with 60 billion dollars of investment), in Sri Lanka and in Djibouti (in which it has built in a short time a huge base, right next to the historical base of the United States, to guard the strait of Bab el-Mandeb). There is therefore the construction of a new geopolitical vision, which contrasts with the main reference of the Euro-Atlantic Pact. So this is a fundamental point: have we discussed this with our historical partners? This is the fundamental question, and gradually, with the declarations more than with the concrete facts, we give the feeling that with the current Government we are moving away from historical references, i.e. from Atlanticism and Europeanism. We, from the opposition, will not allow it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u34	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Technical-Commercial Institute of Francesco Viganò, Merate, in the province of Lecco, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: 'God is dead, Marx is dead, and I too do not feel very well', with these words Ionesco noted, and in some way weakened the death of ideologies, greeted by many as the opening of spaces of freedom and political action free from preordained conceptual schemes. In Europe, the death of ideologies has resulted in one ideology being accepted: Europeanism. The death of ideologies is becoming the murder of pluralism and the weapon of this murder is the criminalization of propaganda. What propaganda? Obviously that of others, of those who do not adhere to liturgical Europeanism, in a manner that is often celebrated here. This evidence is required for the reading of JOIN (2018) 36, one of the documents under discussion in the fourth item on the Council agenda. The stated aim is apparently noble: the fight against misinformation. Who would want more misinformation, as well as who would, for example, want more pollution? Nobody, of course. The devil, however, is in detail and I allow myself, Mr President, to draw your and the House's attention to some of them, although there are also other priorities on this agenda. I would point out three: the document explicitly proposes to combat the so-called legal content of misinformation, underestimates the role of traditional media and is totally opaque on the recruitment and evaluation of so-called independent fact checkers, the alacrous officials of the European Ministry of Truth. Let's get to the first point: why should legal content be combated? In the world in which you and I grew up, the communists were propaganda for communism, socialists for socialism and liberals for liberalism, unless they made mistakes. A socialist may legitimately find questionable the idea that markets heal every evil in the world, but he will not consider it disinformation: he will consider it either nonsense or propaganda. Personally, I am pleased to have lived in a world in which no one had yet thought of criminalising propaganda, which is legitimate in a context of political dialectic. Criminalizing propaganda to ensure democratic elections is a contradiction in terms, one of the many that has accustomed us to liturgical Europeanism. With regard to the role of traditional media, there is no such thing as false information from traditional media, i.e. newspapers and television. I would like to give three examples: on 13 March, Massimo Nava, a journalist in a prestigious newspaper, told us that Italy is a net punter of EU funds; it is a fake, but they have all been silent. On January 27, 2015, during "Dancer" another journalist, Massimo Giannini, said that Greece's public debt was 125 percent, then rose to 300 percent, but with the Troika's care it fell to 175 percent. Too bad that 300 percent never got there and that cure actually brought the debt from 125 to 175 percent. It was a traditional media fake news. Going back again, the "Corriere della Sera" of 2 April 2014 wrote that there were as many unemployed as in 1977; a pity that in 1977 the unemployed were half. The propaganda on traditional media is more and no less insidious than that on social media for two specific reasons: meanwhile, because it is filled with an aura of misplaced credibility (usually those who disinform on traditional media are enrolled in a register or something like that) and then because it is addressed to groups of population that are intrinsically more fragile, such as the elderly, just because the distance from the web does not allow them to access the primary sources. Moving on to the next point, we have to ask ourselves who the fact checkers are. If the morning is seen from the morning there is to shudder. Just think about who is on the European Union's high-level committee to fight misinformation: Gianni Riotta and Federico Fubini, two journalists who actively promoted a political propaganda hostile to this majority, even with falls in the fake news. Just think of when Gianni Riotta denied that the second paragraph of the first article of the Constitution mentioned popular sovereignty, a fake news with the aggression of ideological hatred. I would therefore urge you, Mr Conte, to analyse the issue of countering misinformation starting from the serene observation that this task, the contrast, is entrusted to people who have actively campaigned against your Government and this should arouse some attention in you and throughout the Executive. As an Italian citizen, I reject with indignation the idea that our country needs external protection in order to live a complete democracy. You who have declared yourself our defense attorney will be able to defend not only the interest, but also the dignity of the Italian people from those who implicitly assimilate it to a mass of decerebrates which can be influenced by algorithms on the [[web (Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to this new European Council with the usual spread between declarations, facts and results that now distinguishes the action of this Government and its shareholders. Italy presents itself to this event once again as a special observation, both from the economic point of view and for its international determinations that build a sort of Tower of Babel that casts a disturbing light on the country. It is said that diversity is a value. It is true, but when it becomes confusing, when it takes on contours of inconsistency, adventure and improvisation, all the more so in a delicate field such as foreign policy, a country loses credibility, puts its alliances at risk, which are cultural rather than political, and undermines its international role. Unfortunately, this is what is happening with a certain and worrying constancy. There is no strategy, but you can't even navigate on sight. Keep talking about a stronger and more competitive European Union, which does not need trusted supporters. It is a right and sacrosanct thing that we subscribe to, but we do not understand the contribution that the Italian Government intends to make in this direction. There are only generic declarations of change that are equivalent, as in the best literature, to changing nothing. And of change, also on the subject of immigration and the necessary European approach, frankly little has been seen. Yet it is repeated that everything has changed. The Council will address, among the many issues - from Brexit to climate change - the issue of the economy. It's not really a chapter of joy for us. It will have to approve, or not, the strategic policy priorities of the Annual Growth Survey to be included by Member States in their programmes. I wonder, and I ask the Government, with what strength and credibility Italy will sit at that table and say its own on this and on other issues. But above all, since the Government is critical of the Community's economic recipes - let me add not without reason - will it be consistent to vote against this dossier, or perhaps to change its intended content? I fear that, as in previous cases, the current will follow, except then declare to camera favor the exact opposite. But, in doing so, we do not do the good of Italy, nor of Europe, let alone become credible actors. The only thing that has really changed in this period of time, but worse, is the economic forecasts, which announce for Italy dark times and this thanks also to a Government - yours - that has launched a manoeuvre all in debt, without investment and development. It is no coincidence that last February's country report, which is the basis for the economic debate that will take place at the European Council, notes Italy, together with Greece and Cyprus, among countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances. Thanks to you in the Council, we will talk about our Italy as an "anointing" country, which risks overwhelming the entire European Union with its bald economic policies, which is also not free from serious responsibilities on the issues of growth. Of all the recommendations to the summit, the Italian Government has not received one in its action: it does nothing about debt, nothing to support productivity and does nothing to deal with what is called the specific challenges in the European dossier. In this context, the issue of the memorandum with China represents the icing on the cake. We have witnessed - in this case yes - a change of course, but epochal, for our foreign policy, a change that will end up displeased so much our historical allies (Europe and the USA, to which we are linked not only an economic-commercial relationship, but above all civilizations and values), so much the new "compañeros" of adventure. With regard to this, too, I wonder how credible the Government will be talking at the next European Council, which should be in favour of further steps on the digital issue, when you want to deliver our infrastructures, including digital ones, in the hands of a foreign power. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But do you know what national interest is? It is not a theme for declarations, but it is the freedom of a people and a country. Frankly, I do not know whether to attribute your statements on the signing of the memorandum to intent or incompetence: in both cases it is serious and demonstrates improvisation and inadequacy. It is worrying that the horizon is not clear, as it is a necessary precondition for a conscious sitting at the discussion table, with clear objectives, risks and strategies to be adopted. Therefore, dear friends of the Government - and I conclude - more seriousness, more coherence, less declarations and less adventures. We are on the eve of a delicate economic and geopolitical phase and, to put it in the words of Dante, with a Government of this fact we are more and more ships without a knuckle in great storm. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Monti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u39	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School of Swabia Federico II of Altamura, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I then greet, on behalf of the Assembly, a delegation from the Lions Clubs International in Bressanone, in the province of Bolzano, who is following our work. [[Applause]] Our stands are very popular today.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u40	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u41	Mr Conte, your presence at the European Council as a representative of Italy is an added value for this Parliament, which clearly stems from your personal credibility, firmness, vision and balance, attitudes you have demonstrated on several occasions, as today. These qualities will enable the European Council to demonstrate, without hesitation, the profound conviction of this majority of the urgency of a change of vision and political direction, not only for Italy but also for Europe. Since the debate will also focus on the future of the single market and the capital market, I am sure that you will find it useful to recall that the origin of the word "market" comes from Latin, from the word "market" meaning "buy" and "buy." And the Latin language is not only the substratum of the Italian language, but also of many European languages. Here, merchants: buy, buy; I ask you to remember, in Europe, that buying cannot be at the center, as the only theme, because not everything is for sale. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as little as it is worth, let the European Council say that not everything has a price, but that there are many things that, on the other hand, have value. Say, for example, that the dignity of the workers is no longer on sale, nor is the price that the planet has to pay for the profit of an unvisioned economy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This also applies to the programming of digital policy, for which urgent measures will be necessary to protect and defend the rights of new digital citizenship, in order to allow people to remain digital and not to become, which are already partly becoming, a product to be sold off. That no longer applies the paradigm, already applied (and bankrupt, among other things) in the past, of an industrial policy aimed at measures exclusively for profit. It is not rhetoric, it is not a matter of mainstream talking about environmental sustainability and people's rights: and for us deep conviction, which comes from afar, from the beginning of our political action. We are sure, President Conte, that she will be able to indicate the new path, that Italy has already begun to go through thanks to this Government, not because it is the easiest way to go or that brings consensus, but because it is the right and urgent path, the only one that can, despite the growth will we need, reduce the irreversible damage that has produced the action of the men who up to now have governed. We are aware that some actions and some measures have not brought media consensus: how to stop drilling in the sea, how to stop incinerators, how to have imposed the ecotax on cars, such as the decision to invest 11 billion euros to prevent hydrogeological disasters. These measures, however, that did not bring consensus, we did the same, and before environmental sustainability became a mainstream topic. They have often approached us in this House to the happy decline, quoting, in my opinion, Latouche: the Movement has never been for a happy decrease, but for a happy, balanced growth in relation and in relation to the rights of men and the environment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A quote, you know, is not denied to anyone and, therefore, we let them say "happy decrescita" several times. At this point, I too take the time to quote, because I am sure that you will bring this reflection into Europe. King Midas, quoted in the "Metamorphosis" of Ovid, wanted everything to become gold, that is, profit to understand us. He wanted gold at all costs and the gods, who often, in order to punish us, satisfied us, through Dionysus made sure that, actually, everything that King Midas touched became gold. Alas: even the food, which he wanted to approach the mouth to eat, became gold. At this time when we often talk about the sunset of the West - many intellectuals talk about it also referring to Europe - I am sure that you, on 21 March (we are practically in the spring), will bring a new European spring, desired by Italy for a united and stronger Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u42	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, the European Council is an opportunity to bring our country's demands to European level. We have been accustomed for too many years to see the Italian interests set aside by our rulers in the name of a Europeanism that was nothing but submission to Brussels. With this Government the air has changed: the relationship with Europe has returned to being an equal and the voice of our country does not remain unheard as it happened in the past. At the next Council, these will be key issues for the future of the Union: employment growth, the major issue of climate change and the European Union's external relations. On the subject of economic growth and employment, we strongly reiterate the Italian Government's commitment to overcoming European austerity policies, which is the cause of the failed economic recipes adopted by previous executives. Italy's commitment to Europe must seek to overcome the model of promoting competitiveness based on wage deflation and to focus decisively on policies that can stimulate domestic demand. Particular attention should also be paid to one of the main challenges that will open in the short term: the challenge of digitalisation of the business market, able to start a real new industrial era, an essential element that will enable Italian and European companies to stabilise themselves as primary players in the international market. With regard to economic growth and the protection of Italian employment, the issue of combating counterfeiting must be brought to Europe, a phenomenon that causes tens of billions of damage to our economic system. The protection of Made in Italy, a guarantee of quality and recognizability for our companies operating in the European and international markets, must be a primary objective of Italian commitment in Europe. A second point that will be taken care of by the European Council is climate: it is important to reiterate the centrality of the Paris Agreement, which must be the framework within which to work towards achieving concrete objectives, which are well aware of the overall scope of the fight against climate change. Action must be taken by promoting measures to support innovative technological alternatives that not only allow a real contribution to environmental issues but also represent an instrument for economic recovery and an opportunity for Italian and European companies. On external relations, the Council's focus will be on the EU's relations with China and the Brexit situation. Both are of course important but we must not forget, especially in Europe, the importance of the situation in North Africa, a geographical area of fundamental importance for Italian interests in terms of security, immigration and energy supply. It is our duty, Mr Conte, to highlight the importance of promoting an inclusive peace process in Libya in order to meet the essential requirements for the holding of new elections and thus to end the difficult process of political transition. The aim is to avoid a new escalation of violence in the country that would be harmful in terms of energy interests and security. The level of attention must remain high and must also be extended to the monitoring of the political crisis in Algeria. It should be remembered that the North African country is the second largest gas supplier in the European Union and that it shares 2,500 kilometres of borders with Niger and Mali, where some of the main African migration routes transit. The European Union must remain vigilant on the issue of the stability of North Africa, so as not to risk increasing the migratory waves we have witnessed over the last eight years. It is precisely on the phenomenon of migration that I would like to stress that this Government has denied all the falsehoods that we heard at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We were told that migratory flows were uncontrollable, while the latest data from the Department of Public Security show an extraordinary result: in the period between 1 January and 18 March 2019 348 people landed compared to the 6,000 in the same period of 2018 and - attention - 16,000 in 2017. This is a 95% reduction, which is not the only one in Italy, but the whole European Union. Finally, there is still a long way to go, but the route is the right one. The change in Italy also represents the hope that one will happen in Europe, because our objectives are the same in Italy as in Europe: to ensure that political actions and decisions are really for the benefit of citizens and to protect their interests and their security. A government close to the needs of citizens who make their voices heard in Europe is the best guarantee of a real change of the Community institutions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u44	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u45	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once again we are discussing the issues of the European Council behind it: and then, once again, we propose to you that these discussions, if we want Parliament to actually perform its role of direction, take place in good time so that the work of the Government is able to speak on the construction of the European Council; otherwise, this becomes a rather formal rite which does not allow Parliament to play its full role. The timing at my disposal, recalling the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, does not allow me to address all the issues. We are, however, discussing very important issues for our country and for now, Mr President, we are not in a beautiful year for Italy, but at least we are in a technical recession. In his speech he said that there is a slowdown in growth: it is very true, but Italy, compared to all other European countries, is substantially far behind in economic terms and is in serious difficulty with regard to unemployment as well; we are concerned that the dynamics of new recruitments are linked to a figure of precariousness, since the average recruitment is below twelve months. It will be the Government of change, they will be realized and you will be realizing great things: however, the concrete data of the country - not ours or our propaganda - go in a whole other direction. Here is the point that I would like to propose to you more than any other: as you will know, since we have said so many times in previous debates, we are very convinced of the need for a profound change in European policies. Austerity, credit and banking policies have caused damage and not solved problems for our country. However, the question that other colleagues have already asked you is also mine: to implement change in European policies, how do you intend to relate to other European countries? What is your relationship policy? How do you intend to relaunch a different Europeanism? Every day, we do not miss the statement by a representative of the Government or a Vice President of the Council who questions what you have said here, from yellow vests to the fact that the foreign minister of our country has learned from the press the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It must solve this problem; otherwise our actions to try to change European policy - I repeat that is essential - will fall into the void as it has happened so far. When you came out of a Council meeting and stated that there had been a change in immigration policy, we were faced with a worsening change in Italy's affairs a few hours later. Mr President, from this point of view you really have to raise the problem. You use Parliament because there could be a common commitment here to work to change that European policy. Use it; ask your Government for more consistency; be consistent. Since I have run out of time - President, thank you for not having called me back yet, but I call myself back - I just want to put two problems at this point. I am referring, first of all, to climate policies. There have been - they have been evoked by other colleagues - great demonstrations. We have to give an answer. Will you take a position to say that the Commission's gas reduction programming is too shy? Are you going to ask that we succeed in achieving - as is essential - half-life for 2030? Otherwise in 2050 we will never get to zero. President, will you also make an energy plan in Italy that will allow us to manage this policy? Finally, on China we are in favour of the memorandum - I say this without inflaming it - certainly within the framework of European alliances and policies, making it clear that there are, however, aspects that do not concern European trade policies. The ports, in fact, in Europe are made competition and we have the right to protect the Italian interests and to make sure that the Silk Road finds an important interlocutor, fundamental and strategic in our Country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u47	Mr President, at 9.30 a.m. this morning, the discussion of the subject of the Treaty - memorandum of understanding (MOU) - was on the agenda, which, together with fifty strategic agreements, are about to sign Italy and China. And it was not by chance inserted alongside the communications of the President of the Council with a view to the European Council. Mr President, you have not spoken about this, but at the European Council, central issues are precisely Europe's position towards China, and a number of measures - I have listed at least ten - which concern the new EU policy to protect business and the security of the European Continent with respect to the new China. Mr President, I was in China dozens of times when I was a trade delegate in the early 2000s; I was also in Doha at the WTO when China was welcomed. But that China wasn't this China. Since Xi was appointed president of the Chinese Communist Party - his friend Errani is not present in the Chamber now, but I understand and agree with what he said from his position - the Silk Road, which you have been debilitating from an economic-commercial fact, has nothing commercial anymore. As you know, trade policy is the exclusive responsibility of the European Union. There is none of these agreements that are commercial; however, they are quite different. Several policy areas are mentioned in the MOU. Infrastructure, energy and telecommunications are mentioned in the MOU because they concern this matter, which may not possibly have legal value for us, as the bans of the TAV do not even have it, for legal dissolution, and as the government contract does not have it among you; I repeat that it has no legal value, but for China it has a fundamental strategic value. In 2017 Xi imposed a reform of the statute of the Chinese Communist Party which set the Silk Road as the strategic goal of the aforementioned Party to change the fate of the world. In 2018 President Xi, who in second order, as second step, is also the President of the State, imposed in the reform of the Chinese Constitution, in the preamble, certainly not the concepts of Leninism, but the Silk Road as a strategic tool to impose China's rule, overturn the framework of alliances and make the West succumb. Immediately afterwards, not by chance, the Silk Road became a relevance of the Ministry of National Security. At the same time, from 2015 onwards, with four legislative reviews it has been imposed that any citizen and any Chinese company in the world have the obligation - not the faculty, but the obligation - to respond to the Security and Military Services, to provide them with information and assistance. So you are facing a power of this kind that has the monopoly of transport between Asia, Africa and Europe, and you will have the keys to transport. And if someone sneaks away, just delay his goods by one day, and he succumbs. And this the government already does after seven months: you have been going to China for seven months; the Deputy Prime Minister has gone twice. The Undersecretary for Trade has lived more in China - not in the last ten years, which has always lived in China, but in the last eight months - than in Italy. And you bring the document here, after all the secret negotiations, and I would also say obscure, to the extent that, Prime Minister, the same majority presents you with an abnormal document. The majority document states that the Government undertakes to confirm that the necessary verifications have been carried out. Today? You must confirm that the necessary checks have been carried out: so you did not inform either the Ministries or the majority? The Government undertakes to ensure that the related agreements do not affect economic-commercial aspects of strategic importance. Does the majority ask the Government to do so? So, you first know and you are aware that it concerns the strategic policy framework of our country! In the same majority document it says that it is necessary to ensure that each of the bilateral instruments being signed is compatible with the maintenance of traditional transatlantic relations. Guarantee it today? Haven't you examined them in these seven months? And then there's the last commitment that concerns new relationships. Well, Mr President, there are ten points in the document at the European Council, the first of which was brought to the attention of this Parliament by the Security Services report which you signed a few weeks ago. There it says that one of the key actions to protect national interests is the regulation - you signed the report - on screening foreign investment in Europe. I wonder, then, why did your Government strongly oppose the regulation that the same report to the Security Services Parliament considers essential? Do you already have a pro-Chinese posture that contradicts your own documents and reports on national security in Parliament? Why has the government placed itself in a position with Greece, in fact, on Venezuela? Why did the Government oppose, unlike what it says - because this is what I see - that transatlantic relations are resumed, starting with the reduction of industrial tariffs of priority interest of our Government? Why doesn't the government know what their representatives do in Europe? I would add that the European Council's list talks about key issues: the digital economy, the taxation of the digital economy, new rules on cybernetics, national security and foreign companies investing in Europe and having to comply with the State Aid Act; new rules on artificial intelligence with a Europe-wide plan to finally become the first global power on artificial intelligence. We are also talking about the sovereign fund to protect European industries from China. You don't tell us anything about this. We would like to know how Italy will behave in Europe in this context and on these vital arguments for national security and for the protection of our industrial system. In the last two reports of the Security Services in Parliament, both the one signed by Gentiloni Silveri and the one signed and shared by you, there are two threats to the security of the country: the first threat is cybernetic - and you tell us nothing about this and we have at the door the ban of the 5Gs that is instead protected in the European - and the second is the predatory action of some countries that are buying the strategic structures of our country. If we read those reports - obviously there is no name, but there are two - it is our supposed ally neighbour and our global antagonist, namely China. Well, in the face of all this, we sign an agreement with fifty others... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Urso. Mr Urso (FdI). ...but it is the same majority who ask you: have you checked whether this corresponds to national security? Have you checked that the country's strategic interests are being protected? You have not verified, or, if you have, it is because you share China's imperial and predatory strategy in Europe. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u48	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u49	Mr President, for the first time I will read a written speech. I have never done so before, but I believe that the issue of climate change that we are dealing with today is so important that, at the end of my speech, I would like to leave the text of the same to the President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the second item on the agenda of the European Council meeting there is the issue of climate change. The Council will have to provide guidance on the Directorate-General and the political priorities that will serve to define, by 2020, the long-term strategy that the European Union will have to pursue in order to remain in line with the parameters set out in the Paris Agreement. Italy arrives at this appointment to say the least with an unclear position. On the contrary, we can certainly say that it is an absolutely contradictory position on many aspects. On the other hand, the premises were unequivocal and left no hope for a reversal of trend. The League led by Matteo Salvini voted, not later than two and a half years ago, against the Paris Agreement, which is the presupposition of the European Council in the coming days, and rejected the first universal and legally binding agreement signed by 195 countries. In the European Parliament, Mr President, the law, which is your key government partner, also voted against the Renewable Energy Directive, energy efficiency measures, CO2 emissions from cars, the greenhouse gas accounting regulation for the 2030 climate targets, as well as the directive for the reduction of disposable plastic. It does not end here: on 14 March last, the European Parliament has already expressed itself in the content of the next European Council and on the issue of climate change it has approved - as I suppose you know - by a large majority, with explicit reference to the mobilisation of Fridays for future, the resolutions on climate and clean air. Well, Mr President, in that case too, particularly on the most important resolution, which is the climate resolution, the League has once again voted against what the text describes as identifying a prosperous, modern, competitive and climate-neutral economy in accordance with the Paris Agreement. The League and its Government, in this way, have objectively placed themselves in a paralyzing situation in the international context and - we can and must say this clearly - outside history. The result, Mr President, is that we have done nothing with the operation of the European Parliament and we risk doing the same on 21 and 22 March on essential points that were present in that resolution. I am referring, for example, to energy policies, industrial policies and research and innovation policies. Zero is not only an algebraic reference to mean the nullity of the choices and actions taken to face the global context and therefore climate change; but zero, President, is the vote that this Government and this majority deserve for the absence in such important and decisive issues for our country. Mr President, your majority says yes one day and the other also wants to focus all policies on social justice. Well, Mr President, there is a fundamental link between the question of the environment and the question of social justice: most of the migrants who press at our gates are environmental exiles fleeing from drought, dry lands and cataclysms. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are 24 million environmental exiles in 2016, compared to the seven million caused by wars, more than three times as much. If you have Mr Costa explain it, if you have the grace to come and answer a few questions in this House or at least in the Commission. This data has been provided by hundreds of scholars gathered these days, until 15 March, in the report I signed and presented to the United Nations Assembly in Nairobi. Now, President, if you do not want to listen to scientists, at least listen to the President of the Republic you mentioned. I was lucky enough to be present and welcome the President last Tuesday in Belluno. He brought the testimony about the Vaia storm, which had never been seen in Veneto. Look, President, on December 7, in the heart of the Dolomites, in Pieve di Cadore, there were speakers, scholars and administrators and everyone agreed that that cataclysmatic phenomenon depends fundamentally on climate change; yet, there are still negationists. The city council member to the environment of the Veneto Region League, in a debate with myself, said a few days after that cataclysm that there is no scientific evidence linking climate change with human action. That's what we're talking about. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u50	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u51	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I have always been very attentive to respect for the environment, the ecosystem and the common home that hosts us. You say that you too, especially the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, but it is not with the slogans, with the lies and with the balances that prove it, but with the facts. Mr President, the energy and climate plan is totally inadequate for 10,000 reasons and, when we have the grace to discuss it here or at least in the Commission, we will explain why. We need action, Mr President; we need to understand that it is not enough to come here and speak well of Europe and of climate in those very few seconds - by the way - in which you spoke about it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, we're already three more minutes. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). I'm almost done, ma'am. Incentives for fossil fuels need to be reviewed; consumption of petrol and diesel needs to be reduced; work needs to be done on reuse; work needs to be done on renewables, urban regeneration and soil consumption. Last week millions of young people around the world gave birth to an extraordinary demonstration. They were joined by the courage, the example, the determination of Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old girl. Mr President, tell Senator Bagnai that it is not Greta who left the horror film, but it is his short-sighted, dangerous policy that is bringing us exactly... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u52	Thank you and I authorize you to deliver the written text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u53	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, the issue of the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with China, also known as Via della Seta, has held a stand over the past few weeks and has involved all the players in Italian politics in a healthy debate on the future of our country's international relations, the role of Italy and within the Atlantic Alliance. For us and our Group, the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding represents an important opportunity for our country's commercial development. China is undertaking a process of internal economic and social transformation, leading to the emergence of a full-bodied middle class and an increase in demand for European products. It is our duty, President, for the good of our country, to intercept this demand and increase the Italian export share to the Chinese market. I would particularly like to point out, Mr President, that Italy exports products and goods to China for EUR 13 billion per year; a ridiculous export share compared with the trade that other European countries have with the Asian country. I would like to give two examples: France has exports to China worth 20 billion a year, Germany exports goods and products worth 87 billion a year. We wonder, then, if the European Union and the Member States which are criticising the memorandum do not in fact fear healthy competition with our country; healthy competition that sees in Made in Italy, in the agri-food market and in that of the luxury of the goods strongly demanded by the growing demand from China. The objective of the Government - and the agreement on the memorandum is proof of this - is to attract safe investments for our country. In this case, too, it is the numbers that show us a huge imbalance within the European States. In 2018, of the approximately 50 billion dollars that China has invested in Europe, Britain has absorbed half of it, while Germany has won a share of 22%, much higher than that of Italy, estimated at around 15 percentage points. This is a trend which the Government is committed to changing and which shows that the European Union is far from having a systemic approach on trade policies. It makes us smile, Mr President, at the fears which come from Brussels and which concern the possible comparison between the situation of our ports in Trieste and Genoa and that of Piraeus in Greece. I would like to remind you that Greece has been forced to sell out its public heritage precisely because it is left alone by that Europe which, with its crazy austerity policies, has devastated Greece's industrial fabric. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Italy and this Government - as reiterated several times in recent weeks - have no intention of selling off public assets and our strategic infrastructure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I would like to reiterate this on behalf of the whole Group, so that it is clear. Italy will never sell any strategic assets. In conclusion, I respond to the criticism that has been heard in the last few days and I strongly reiterate the concept already expressed during these weeks. It is confirmed by all the actions that this Government has carried out: Italy remains firmly anchored to the Atlantic Alliance, which represents the natural framework of the system of alliances of our country; it is an instrument of absolute importance in terms not only of security, but also of European military integration and cooperation. This government has proved to be one of the main allies of the United States and will not be this trade agreement, which is part of the perimeter of the principles of economic-commercial cooperation present in all European documents, to modify the natural alliance with Washington and to remove Italy from the Western bloc and the Atlantic Alliance. I shall conclude, Mr President, by confirming what has been said in my speech. The main objective of our Group with regard to the agreement in question is to invest in the revival of Made in Italy and to gain more shares in a market - the Chinese market - which is already an important outlet for exports from other Member States. Italy does nothing but compete loyally to develop its trade relations. We're sure this is good for our country. At the same time, we will keep our attention to investment and the defence of our infrastructure. Our continent, which is right in the midst of two giants, has been and will be the cradle of democracy, trade and tourism, but today we resume the opportunity not to finally suffer the choices of others. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr Conte, the single European market and, more generally, the European Union are certainly one of the greatest achievements in the history of our continent. The European space is, to date, one of the best areas on the planet to live in in terms of both social and economic well-being. Of course, it's not all roses and flowers. In fact, the challenges that the rest of the world has presented to us are many and difficult to resolve. I am thinking of the economic crisis, immigration, environmental issues and terrorism. Today's Europe does not seem to be able to give the right answers in good time to these challenges and this is causing a significant increase in feelings of scepticism towards the institution in all the peoples that are part of it: scepticism, fear or objective difficulties that, if not properly governed, lead to bad and potentially disastrous choices. I am thinking of the shameful spectacle we are witnessing in the United Kingdom, a prisoner of Brexit, which will be the subject of your meeting, Mr President, and which should be a warning to us who have the honour and the burden of representing our citizens. You don't go anywhere if you ride only fears and you don't deal in a serious and competent way with the problems that there are. Coming to the highlights of the meeting in which you will participate, representing the interests of all Italians, a prominent role will be played by economic issues, as it is right that the situation is given. Prime Minister, it is precisely on economic issues that no one who has any knowledge of the facts can think that Italy alone can achieve real and concrete results for our fellow citizens. We all still have in our eyes the ridiculous arm-wrestling that you have done and lost with the Commission for your economic manoeuvre, and we therefore hope, since this European Council, for a new phase of dialogue and confrontation with our partners, which means that we do not accept the Diktats, as you have done, as you have done, but we want to discuss serious and concerted measures. In order to do so, however, we must say credible things and - above all - put them into practice. As I asked Commissioner Vestager recently, the issue of competition must be at the heart of the debate. It is not possible for tax dumping in Europe to persist, i.e. European countries which compete unfairly with tax reductions, which are so damaging to our companies. What are you going to do about it? I ask you, Prime Minister, because your last undertaking is - apparently - to hand over the country to the Chinese. What, aren't you proudly sovereign? Chinese sovereigns, perhaps? You have to specify that, and here I turn to the friends of the League. How can our companies, our workers and our craftsmen compete against the Asian giant who does not comply with our rules and who, therefore, manages to offer low quality products at low prices? Export is more important. Therefore, it is good to open up to Chinese investment, but to do so with transparency. By the way, if you're willing to tell us more about this deal, it wouldn't be bad. It seems to me that there are bilateral agreements that you have not mentioned today (I refer to the ports of Trieste and Genoa). We must protect our strategic assets, especially in the respect of our European partners and our historic alliances. We come to environmental issues, which are at last at the heart of the debate. I want to quote Saint Ignatius of Antioch, who tells us: "You educate yourself much with what you say, even more with what you do, but much more with what you are." You see, President, we representatives of the institutions will have to set an example for our fellow citizens. But if a Minister of the Republic goes on television to say that he bought a diesel SUV, how can you expect Italians to believe you when you talk about environmental issues and ask them to make sacrifices in this regard? The alternative to diesel is and is called rail transport, but it is not mentioned in any of the 227 pages of the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union, which the former Minister for European Affairs has drafted. By the way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will you keep the delegations to European affairs? For how long? I would ask you, because we have a lot of issues to deal with, especially as regards the new programming of Community funds and the ongoing negotiations that are taking place in Brussels. I have spoken of rail transport, which the whole world, except Minister Toninelli's advisors, knows is the most ecological and efficient means. So we are talking about FTAs, which, in terms of competitiveness, job creation and improving environmental conditions, is an extraordinary opportunity that you are boycotting. How do you intend to strengthen European relations if you fail to reach agreements? We are talking about facts: in the age of globalisation and its challenges, Italy alone unfortunately has no chance, but now, because of you, it is isolated in the European context. The apparent improvisation with which you have put in place recent commercial initiatives risks compromising our fundamental alliance with the United States. I begin with the conclusion, inviting you, gentlemen of the Government, to get out of the bunker in which you have locked yourself up, to stop listening to bad advisors and to let Italy resume its role of measure and balance in the international scenario. Let us start again from Europe, which is our home, our present and, if we are able to seize its opportunities, our future. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u58	Mr President, today is Father's Day: I take the opportunity to offer my best wishes to all the fathers present in this House. [[Applause]] And I take this opportunity to wish our president, Giuseppe Conte, well for his name. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to focus my speech on the problem of employment and employment, since among the issues that European leaders will address is precisely that of employment, growth and competitiveness. Austerity policies have created social barriers between the weaker economies of the Mediterranean, where the social state has gradually been dismantled, and the economies of northern Europe, where social protection systems have instead been maintained. In order to achieve economic convergence, there have been no mechanisms and instruments of solidarity at European level, leading to the explosion of social dumping, with an intra-Community migration of workers to countries with more generous welfare systems. One of the founding principles of the European Union is solidarity: for this reason, it is necessary to create harmonised social guarantee systems in all the Member States of the European Union; income support instruments, inclusive employment policies, universal assistance services and combating poverty, in order to improve the living and working conditions of European citizens, in contrast to neoliberal and austerity policy failures, which will hardly be able to relaunch the national economy. Relaunching and European growth cannot be without the protection of labour in its broadest sense. Labour protection involves many interlinked factors, ranging from demand to supply, industrial production, economic policies, environmental conditions, protection of workers' rights in every latitude, to the preservation of the social state. The revival of European growth cannot fail to pay attention to the protection of labour and, in particular, to wage deflation, which adversely affects domestic demand in the country. A model for the development of industrial relations that sees the cutting of wages only apparently gives companies greater competitiveness, but decreases the rights of workers who are effectively underpaid. Therefore, Mr President, we ask that Europe as a whole, its institutions and its Member States, work in synergy with the objective of social inclusion for fair, shared and sustainable growth, with more employment, combating poverty, relaunching the national economy, through investments aimed at the research and development of the economic fabric. Particular attention must be paid, Mr President, to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are and are the real connective tissue and the driving force behind internal and European production. We fully appreciate and agree with the work that you have done and are doing with so much commitment and self-denial and we hope as Italians and European Union members that the conditions of happiness and social peace can soon be realized and realized, with the hope that - as the Romans said - they will come to terms with us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u59	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the House that, on the communications relating to the European Council, motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4 have been tabled by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators, Nos 4 and 4, Senator Marcucci and other senators, No 5, Senator De Petris and other senators, No 7, Senator Bernini and other senators, and No 9, Senator Ciriani and other senators. Motions for resolutions No 1, by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, No 2, Senator Marcucci and other Senators, No 6, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 8, Senator Gasparri and other Senators, and No 10, Senator Ciriani and other Senators have been tabled on communications relating to the Memorandum with China. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u60	Mr President, of course I do not speak about the debate, partly because there is a variety of opinions and it is understandable; I simply want to sum up, even for the sake of transparency with regard to Parliament, the position of the Government. I would just like to make one point. I wouldn't want to forget, but Senator Alfieri asked for information on Italy's plan for the non-deal perspective. I would like to point out here that we have taken care of this perspective: on the websites of both the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, you will find a detailed collection of information, with a wealth of details for all the citizens and businesses that might be interested. Since we do not know in the state whether we are going to go to a non-deal perspective, that is to say to an exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without agreement, we have also taken care of a regulatory instrument: we have a draft decree-law that we will already bring to the Council of Ministers tomorrow and, where necessary, we have prepared the necessary measures to ensure that we do not even have to postpone the deadline of 29 March and therefore we have also prepared ourselves to inform all citizens of this. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u61	I would ask Mr Geraci to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u62	Mr President, I am in favour of the motions for resolutions Nos. 1 and 3 and against all the others. [[Ironic applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to say at once that we will of course be voting in favour of our resolutions, Nos 5 and 6, while we will abstain on resolutions Nos 2 and 4, both of which were signed by Mr Marcucci. In the very short time available for the explanation of vote, I shall concentrate on a matter which is of particular concern to us, to which I regret that you, Mr Conte, have devoted very little space. I am referring to the issue of climate change. I think that we absolutely cannot allow ourselves - I say this to the representatives of the Government, but also to the whole House - to disappoint once again the children who have come to the streets and who are asking for the protection of the human species for the future. This means some specific things and I'm not just talking about the eco-compatibility of choices. Since we are in the mood for quotations, ecology and economics, as you know, President Conte, they have the same root, which means taking care: this means that it is possible to give support and strength to a new economy, to a new opportunity. The precise commitments, Mr Conte, are very clear. You know - as my colleague from the Democratic Party mentioned earlier - that compared to the targets set by the European Union for 2030 there has been a step forward by the European Parliament to move beyond those targets towards more ambitious targets, although part of its government, represented by the League, voted against. We are asking for one very simple thing: to ensure that Italy, at the European Council, formalizes it on a proposal, with the demand for a strong acceleration, so that by 2030 it will reach half of all the climate emissions. We also call for every initiative to be taken to ensure that at the next COP25 in New York the European Union - and it is the interest of our country and the European Union in general - finally returns to take on a leading role in relation to the failure of the Conference in Poland. The matter concerns us even more closely with the truth. Anomalous data have been recorded in the Mediterranean, also compared to the increase in temperature. The Mediterranean is therefore at the center of climate chaos, with all the consequences, from environmental refugees to issues that impact directly on our country. This, as far as we are concerned, is a matter of priority, but we have not heard, alas, clear words. So, after pointing out the resolutions on which we will vote in favour and those on which we will abstain, I am sorry to say that we will vote against all the other resolutions. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u67	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, unfortunately, we have very important issues to put forward, but only a few minutes to do so. Our Group, like the other smaller ones, is strongly penalized in the minutation, so I ask the President for a bit of understanding, even if I will try to be telegraphic. As far as the agenda for the European Council is concerned, the points are different. The first concerns employment, growth and competitiveness. President Conte, we ask you to go to Europe and point out to the European Union that while in the United States in 2018 GDP growth was 3%, growth in the eurozone was 1.2%. With a little humility, the European Union should think that the austerity policies maintained so far are wrong and that Trump's recipe, on the other hand, has worked. The recipe is very simple: public investment, tax reduction, simplification and the fight against bureaucracy. This is the recipe that Brothers of Italy asks Italy and the European Union. As far as public investment is concerned, from the first day we are asking Italy to put in Europe the question of the division of investment costs into the calculation of deficit-GDP parameters, so that Italy and the European Union can make massive investments without having the problem of budgetary constraints and without going into deficits to finance initiatives that may not be useful for growth. Tax reductions are not the responsibility of the European Union, but of individual states. However, as someone said before me, we can, in Europe, at least pose the problem of unfair intra-European competition in countries that use tax dumping for internal European competition that does not benefit Italy. On simplification and bureaucracy, we try to play our part in Italy, but Europe does not help us, having created bureaucracy on bureaucracy in recent years. Another recipe for the Trump strategy is the war on unfair competition from third countries. In this respect, one of the points of the European Council will be that of external relations with China. It will be an opportunity to raise the problem of wage and social dumping that Europe suffers from third countries: certainly, not only from China, but also from China. This means that, without what Brothers of Italy call civilization duties, European companies will have only two choices: to adapt wage policy and social policy downwards, also reducing environmental costs, to withstand competition from Chinese products and the rest of the world, or to close down, as many of our companies are doing. (18.17) (Fazzulars follow). We do not want either hypothesis, and we therefore call for Italy to pose the problem of seriously tackling the problem of wage, social and environmental dumping at this stage in the West in Europe. I will now move on to the China issue quickly. We have heard a bit of everything these days, as the danger of Chinese trade penetration in the West. I would point out to everyone that, in 1816, such a Napoleon had said: when China wakes up, the world will tremble. It was, however, two centuries ago. Now, in 2019, before talking about the Chinese danger, maybe one should go and read some data. The United States and China have an exchange of $600 billion a year; China holds a thousand billion U.S. public debt. China has become Germany's first trading partner. Germany and China have made two hundred and twenty-five agreements between them. Germany has proposed itself as the railway hub of the Silk Road. China has already closed thirteen agreements with thirteen European states. It has important percentage quotas for European ports: 35% of the port of Rotterdam; 49% of the port of Marseille; 100% of Piraeus. It's like this all over Europe. If we had, therefore, a Chinese penetration problem in the West, we arrived late. The problem, of course, is not that. The problem is how Italy has put this negotiation with China. Brothers of Italy felt that it was a missed opportunity not to put very specific questions on the table which had to be asked. The first concerns strategic infrastructure. Minister Salvini said: we keep the keys to the house. That's right. I would point out, however, that this Parliament has systematically rejected the proposals of Brothers of Italy who asked for the public possession of Italian strategic infrastructures. It is a safeguard clause of national interest on all strategic infrastructures, both in hand, tomorrow, to the Chinese, and in hand, today, to a large extent, to the French. We've asked for an overall view. Here too, I ask you, Prime Minister Conte: how can we talk about Italia hub della Via della Seta and then make problems on the high speed Turin-Lion? The most important aspect, which we would have liked at this stage to be placed, is to take advantage of this opportunity to put the problem of Chinese unfair competition at home. The Chinese companies in our home, in most of the territory, carry out acts of blatant illegality and tax avoidance and evasion that the Finance Guard estimates in a billion euros in the Prato area alone. This was an opportunity to raise these problems as well. For these reasons, Brothers of Italy will vote against the majority resolution, not because we do not understand the usefulness of dialogue with China, but because we believe that this was a missed opportunity to put these problems on the table, both at European and national level. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u70	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, someone has a very short memory or pretends not to remember what the referendum campaign on Brexit was, even here. In fact, even in Italy there was a campaign on Brexit and in favour of Brexit. So many lies. I remember well the lies about the alleged costs of the European Union, the lies about the invasion of immigrants in the United Kingdom, the lies about Turkey's entry into the European Union. As I remember very well the promises: Brexit - said my colleague in the UKIP European Parliament - will bring £350 million a week to the UK health system; we will remain in the single European market and it will be a breeze to sign new trade agreements with all the partners in the world. False, all false - ahinoi - and fueled also by the political forces that today represent the Italian Government, here in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I quote Vice-President Salvini who commented on the outcome of the referendum: "Hail the courage of the free citizens of Great Britain!!! The heart, head, and pride have beaten lies, threats, and blackmail. Thank you UK, now it will finally change Europe, now it is up to us. It was a disaster. Brexit was a disaster, Vice President Salvini! [[Applause from the PD Group]] It would be nice if you would admit it because in politics you can make mistakes but when you are wrong you must have the honesty to admit it. Now we're in a cul-de-sac. Some international media also give us the role of a Member State which would oppose a solution that would allow a referral back to the European Council. I am convinced that this is not the case: say it clearly, President Conte. The Italian Government is working together with the other European countries so that, if there are conditions, there will be a postponement if Brexit cannot be completed by 29 March. It would be insane: an unagreed UK exit could put thousands of jobs at risk. That is what my Group colleagues have said and I would stress it once again: it would put Italian companies doing business in the United Kingdom at risk and the 700,000 Italian people and other Europeans residing in the United Kingdom who would see themselves, from evening to morning, without rights. We're talking about an explosive thing, not a game to deal with enough. Mr President, the other two issues have been dealt with effectively by my colleagues, Mr Ferrazzi and Mr Alfieri. I am sorry to note that the space you have devoted in your introduction to the subject of the environment and the ecological and energy transition has not gone beyond ten to fifteen seconds. I conclude by talking about the economy: this is the first European Council, you said fourth or fifth, but in reality it is the first, with Italy - ahinoi - in recession. There is one point in the European Council concerning growth. It is right to push Europe to do on the growth side, but the Italian Government must do its part. How can we think of producing growth if we make a budget law without a euro for investment? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] How can one think of stimulating growth without special attention to the Mezzogiorno, which has been weakened by the political agenda of this Government, which has been left without investment and from which the special economic zones introduced by the excellent Minister De Vincenti have disappeared? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] What happened to them? What is the Government's response to the special economic zones? Then Salvini comes to my region and says: "But how difficult it is to get to Basilicata! "Surely, if you with your Government do not allocate 450 million for the electrification of the route between Salerno, Metaponto and Potenza, who makes it the High Speed, the Eternal Father? The Government makes it, at the request of the Region, request that there was. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Therefore, Mr President, our sincere wishes for your name, for your work and also because you are a father, since we are attached to our country, as you are, and we want your work to bring positive results to Italy and Europe, but through a clear position and with a double awareness. (18.27) (Pittella followed). The first is that the tragedy of Brexit shows that staying in the European Union is better than trying to get out of it; the second is that we need to be there to strengthen the European Union and its capacity for investment and sustainable growth: and we, like Italy, must be the first to act in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u73	BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, as you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are the fourth European Council of this Government, and I would add that it is perhaps the last, since there is little time left for the renewal of the European institutions. You also call for a genuine European spirit in this Council and we agree with you, because the issues to be addressed are certainly important, as Mr Pittella has just said. There is the painful detachment of Brexit, first of all, with the protection of our countrymen and our interests in that land and also with a look at the effects that it will produce, some of which have been described. I am not so pessimistic, however: I think that the United Kingdom, a country of very strong democratic, commercial and cultural traditions, will find a way to become an important competitor, because it will be able to move on other land and trade and international agreements that I would not want to make vain all our concerns about Brexit. Free trade is at the heart of this European Council also for the coincident action of our country and our government on the relationship with China, a European theme that is also Italian today. Beyond the controversy, I would like to recall an ancient, ancient link between us and China: it is from the time of Matteo Ricci that the dialogue and relationship with China have produced to alternate phases profitable collaborations, but they were other times, as were those of Napoleon, who were also mentioned. The time we live today is particularly difficult and delicate, because we are going through a profound evolution, if we want to define it like this, of our way of living, working, thinking and organizing, which goes under the name of artificial intelligence, of digital economy and of a total change of paradigm of our lives and therefore of our economy. I am therefore not so convinced that that time of collaboration with China, which has seen us in recent years and decades, today is so profitable for our country. Mr Bossi said the numbers first. There are European countries far ahead of us Europeans who have prevented the conclusion of the great trade agreement with the United States. I recall that that great trade agreement therefore provided for a dialogue with what would then become the new trade agreement of the United States, Canada and Mexico, what we once called the world's most important trading system. That trading system, that free trade system and that sale of things, products and services are the basis of the market. That trade agreement existed precisely in an area of the world where, until some time ago, Europe called for cultural, philosophical and political supremacy of rights, social justice and social conquests, but it is not in Europe and it is certainly not in China that the name of free trade agreement has changed. It took Trump to define for the first time - it has already been mentioned in this House - that free trade must be fair before it is free. Justly it is understood that that human capital at the basis of any economic relationship cannot be paid one or two dollars. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Right means that that human capital must have the proper recognition of its work. Therefore, in the era of that economy so renewed, that it resembles so much and perhaps more to an industrial revolution (which makes us move quickly from the soft power of international agreements to the sharp power, to which my colleague Bagnai mentioned earlier with in-depth evaluations), some wars are no longer played with traditional instruments; Today we are also playing through the use of information tools linked to the digital economy. This changes and will change the value of our international agreements. I am well aware, like you, Mr President-in-Office, that this agreement is just a simple agreement and must not be more. Otherwise, the interests of our country would enter a collision course with that historic alliance that made not only of our country but of the whole of Europe a continent freed from Nazism and Fascism. It took thousands and thousands of lives of young Americans who came to these lands to die for us too. This must be included in the economic account - let me say this - of that international agreement that sees us surrender to China important companies or, as we all hope and as you hope, conquer us important markets. Mr President, in order to return to the Council and conclude quickly, reading all the pages of this European Council, we are witnessing yet another contradiction. Before, Professor Monti used very strong words in the defense of our flag. Well, there are also two pages of legislation in this European Council which must become effective by mid-2019. It's two pages that cover all finance. There are only two small chapters which concern growth, development and employment. Professor Monti, this is the priority of the European Union, and our flag - which you and those who before you and with you have not been able to defend for our country - has lost tens of billions of capitalization of your banking system in these two pages of recommendations, directives and regulations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Of course, because the banks had to be cancelled, weakened, made harmless, just as the Renzi Government reminded us very well with its decree-law on popular banks, because there had to be arrived: to make sure that the credit system was no longer of the territories, no longer of our economic and social system, but instead of this great finance, of this single market of finance that then sees in China, and perhaps also in others, its most dangerous enemy. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution which Mrs Pucciarelli has first signed, and we wish you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the best possible work for the defence of that flag - Professor Monti - which we have in our hearts and printed on meat. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u76	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, our Group will of course support our motions for resolutions, although the Government's opinion is unfortunately negative. Before entering the main theme of this speech and this session - we have insisted on talking about China, which had not even been planned before - I must say that our Group also invites everyone to meditate on the problematic and bankrupt outcome of Brexit, because what is happening in the United Kingdom has no precedent: they have not been able to leave or return; referrals, rejections, a government that survives disastrous parliamentary results; even the presence of an authoritative, traditional and historical monarchy has managed to solve the problem so far. We say this for a meditation. This Europe may not like it, it may be critical, but getting out of it becomes difficult, if not impossible, as well as harmful and dangerous. I also want to say to the Government, on other issues, that it seems strange to us that days ago a representative of the League took an initiative also nice and shared: he said that a certain amount of space must be reserved for Italian music. I only listen to Italian music (among other things, just tune in on one of those radios that only make Italian music and the problem is already solved at the root), but here it oscillates between the defense of an Italian popular culture - also SIAE and Mogol share this battle - to the surrender on copyright that you are doing in the European Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What doesn't protect copyright is your government, one of the few. Mr Morelli is a member of the House and not of the Senate, but a middle way is needed. If you want musical autarchy, we could transmit only Al Bano and Toto Cutugno, in a sense of solidarity for the aggression they have suffered on the international level. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Instead of saying to the government: we defend copyright, copyright, which means intellectual property, it means culture and it also means fighting fake news and protecting even the correct information, the one you are exterminating with interventions on liberticidal publishing. You only want the Network of insults, threats and lies, except then complain when you come back against them in an even unacceptable way (and we have seen it). After that, there is the question of sovereignism. I did not understand it and none of us understood it; Mr Testor said it earlier: you are sovereigns every other day, because one day you want Italian and European sovereignism, and another day you want subalternity. We asked for the Chinese issue to be discussed too, and I say this because the President-in-Office of the Council, a few days ago, with an arrogant attitude in an interview on the "Corriere della Sera" had said that this of the Memorandum with China is a programmatic understanding that has objectives, modalities and principles. I have said this again today: there are no risks from this negotiation. And he added on the "Corriere della Sera": There has been no passage in Parliament for the simple reason that it is a text which does not constitute an international agreement and which does not create legal obligations. So you don't know what it is. Does he create obligations or does he not create obligations? Is it a negotiation or isn't it? It's a memorandum, but what's in it? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Is there a telephone network or isn't it? An absolute mystery. But I say personally to President Conte that he learns to respect Parliament: it was the opposition that imposed the debate on this matter too. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He had discarded it. I have to say that a few weeks ago, on Grillo's blog, such a Corrao - I think he is a European Member - had written that this with China is a sinister project to create a new world order in which China will be the dominant actor. "We are talking" - said Grillo's blog - "of a silent and far-sighted strategy of cultural, economic, commercial and geopolitical hegemony, which when it matures will be as invasive as it is irreversible." This is on Grillo's blog. Then all of a sudden it's okay. Maio makes a couple of trips to China, there is also, alas, a Undersecretary, I think he is from the League, Geraci, that I did not understand if he is Undersecretary of the Italian Government or of the Chinese Government representing Italy, because this seems to me to have done so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Perhaps it should be urged to say - as someone else does - "before Italy" or "before Padania" to the limit, that is also good, rather than China. We believe that there is something dangerous and arrogant in this attitude and since some of the 5 Stars have been at Link University in Rome, of which the former Member of Parliament and Minister Scotti is President, I remind them that today Scotti has written a nice article on "La Stampa" (let's read it), in which he says that first we need an agreement between the European Union and the United States on digital security, a European initiative that is not ambiguous and not fragmented in so many small national agreements. Scotti is a man of experience and some have also considered him to be a kind of inspiration; unfortunately, this is not the case, because if Scotti had inspired some ministers, they would certainly have done better, because Scotti has some experience. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] On the other hand, we had the attitude of the President-in-Office of the Council who did not want to discuss it in Parliament. We have the United States responding. Days ago they speculated that confidential information may no longer be communicated to our Secret Service. With fundamentalist terrorism around, isolating yourself from the international security system, I think it's a wretched choice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Senator Solinas enters the Chamber. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations). We wish Senator Solinas well too, because he has won his ally with the center-right, while allies with the triggers sell Italy to China. Better the union of the center-right. Bravo Solinas. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Returning to Italy, after China and Sardinia, I believe that excluding oneself from a circuit of international security information is very dangerous. We also invite you to read some books like "Governing China" by Xi Jinping (it's called Di Maio). Among other things Maio was in Matera, because there are elections in Basilicata, and he discovered that Matera is in Basilicata and not in Puglia. Congratulations also to Di Maio because in time you learn so many things. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, Xi Jiping wrote the essay "Governing China." As you will receive him, I advise you to read the wise man: he is a little boring and long, but you must To study it. He said that value is harmony, not democracy. Now I don't know if this is a fair principle. Deng Xiaoping said many years ago that democracy is too complicated to apply it in China and that Chinese were too many to be able to use democracy but we are of another opinion. We defend democracy and want a reciprocity of rights with a country which denies essential rights to its workers and which pollutes the environment. This concerns us with this understanding, this negotiation and this mysterious fact. We remind you that today we have a trade balance that sees imports into Italy from China for 31 billion and exports for 13 billion. Are we sure that the memorandum will improve a figure that sees our trade balance in strong liabilities or will come here other products from China? Then this Silk Road (I call it in Italian) is a connecting road (let's call it the road); you are favorable as a Government to connect the Far East with the heart of the West and then you do not want to make a few kilometers of railway connecting Italy to France. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But what is consistency? What is the vision? The Silk Road is fine, a nice train from Beijing to I don't know where it's good, but the goods arriving in Genoa or arriving in Trieste as they travel to Europe? Once we get to Chiomonte we stop because there is a pause for reflection: it is absurd. You want connections to our disadvantage to make us colonize and instead you do not want connections to our advantage in the heart of Europe. Another nice consistency. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You like the yellow of China, you like the yellow of vests: you have a form of political jaundice probably. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I want to remind the environmentalists that if Greta went to China they would arrest her, given the level of pollution and environmental inertia. We now have in Europe the phenomenon of discussion of early ecology that is fine. Then let's see what happens if he goes to China. We have the drama of Taranto, where work clashes with health, where in the Tamburi district the same families are afraid of the closure of the steel factory, which could cancel the work of their family members, but they are also afraid of cancer, fumes and residues. So we in China want to call you to respect international environmental protocols, which you do not respect, bringing here steel that costs half of ours because it is produced by polluting and exploiting without any right the work of the Chinese? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, because we also have other commitments in the evening. We do not have the cynophobia, because we have to confront China (it has been done for a few millenniums), but not even the cynofollia, which seems to have hit you. We are concerned - and that is why we are defending our resolutions - about the lack of credibility of your oscillating international policy. I also tell the friends of the League, who traditionally share more serious positions with us. We're chaosing the F-35s. They cost a lot, yes, but no longer have an air defense in the future for a country that in the Mediterranean is exposed to the threats of fundamentalist terrorism, is it a far-sighted choice in your opinion? Is this a Westernist choice? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have a government that has not yet recognized in Venezuela the legitimate government because you are friends of Maduro, the last castrists of the world sitting on those benches. What a shame! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is therefore a repositioning that takes us far from the West, one day to be waiters of the Chinese, one day to be apologists of Maduro, one day to deny NATO membership and Western alliances. We are for the real sovereignism, that of Italy and that of Europe, not subordinate to anyone. Does anyone think they have a crown in their head from the Chinese? He'll have a collar to be dragged on a leash, and we'll always say no to that. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u79	(18.48) NICOLA (M5S). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we fully agree with your view on the agenda of the problems before the European Council. Above all, we appreciate that you have explained the need for the European Union to be guided by the processes of change that are taking place not only on the continent, but also on more complex and global international chessboards. From climate change to the issues posed by disinformation practices, which involve not only individuals, but also states of primary importance, but above all on the economic and competitiveness front, which, with the failure of neoliberal economic recipes, bent on austerity, puts on the agenda the urgency of a change of approach and vision on economic developments never as today in need of expansionary policies based on demand support, the revival of investment and the fight against unemployment and poverty. A change of pace all the more necessary in the light of the changed international scenarios, which in recent months have seen the reappearance of real trade wars between countries that, due to the globalization of the markets, have quickly undermined international economic stability. More and more multilateral scenarios that impose the need to govern the inevitable processes of opening up to new markets, such as the Chinese market, which represents an unmissable opportunity for our companies and our economies. We therefore welcome our Government's decision to regulate and guide these inescapable cooperation with the aim of safeguarding our national interests and the values and principles on which our economies and our society are founded. A necessary initiative, as you can see, which has, however, provoked criticism on the part of the European, American and oppositions. Unintelligible and unfounded criticism, to see. Let's see why. With regard to criticism at European level, the Italian approach, far from being a runaway outside the common European approach, lays the foundations for better cooperation between Europe and China, formalising, also bilaterally, the European multilateral legal framework for all future economic and trade agreements. No one protested when 14 other members of the European Union entered into similar agreements with China. Think only of the Greek one on the port of Piraeus or when Germany - think, Germany - has provided China with the European railway terminal of the new Silk Road. Perhaps someone disturbs the idea that Italy is increasing exports to China, eroding important slices of other people's markets. As far as criticism of the American front is concerned, the memorandum in question is not an international political agreement, but an economic and commercial agreement that absolutely does not call into question the Atlantic fidelity of our country, nor does it favour in any way the strategies of geopolitical expansionism of Beijing. This is not only because there is no military geopolitical implications, but also no risk for Italian and allied security. But perhaps cooperation with China in the field of telecommunications is a problem for the commercial interests of large American companies (telecommunications, however, excluded from this memorandum). On the criticism of oppositions, far from opening the doors to invasions, colonizations and sales, we are putting rules and stakes at a Chinese economic penetration in Italy that was initiated by former presidents Renzi, Gentiloni Silveri and Berlusconi, also in strategic sectors. Let's think about the port of Vado Ligure, the Chinese participations in Ansaldo Energia and Autostrade, leaving out the participations in fashion and football. Finally, the memorandum explicitly guarantees economic and commercial cooperation with China for Italian companies; for Made in Italy it represents an unmissable opportunity to increase exports to a growing market such as China, from which - let it be said without inflaming - we expect, in a reasonable time, the ability to be in line with the best European standards in terms of fair competition and guarantees at work. Of the many other fundamental themes covered by the European Council, I would like to focus, in the short time left, on economic and social equity; a fundamental theme for the 5 Star Movement and for the action of the Government of change that you have led. Reforming, redistributing income in fairer forms: these are the watchwords that we can and must bring to the heart of the European debate. The Council meeting that will see you busy in a couple of days' time is certainly the right opportunity to expand and strengthen this new course. Yes, a new course for Europe. We must have the courage, the pride to say and to invoke it; a new course in which Italy can become a midwife and guardian, allowing those who want to continue to maintain true faith in Europe, to return to believe the spirit of origin, ideals and the cornerstones of the Ventotene Manifesto, to renew the commitment of peace and social justice among peoples, freed from the misunderstandings of the market plague that has seen idolized goods and capital and their free movement and increasingly sacrificed and trampled on the social rights of citizenship, as well as the levels of life and the income capacity of millions and millions of citizens. In the name of competition without rules, Mr President, of the myth of unbridled profit, for companies and companies that are losing more and more sight of their social function, we see how things are going in our country (in fact, how they have gone so far), where this unfair competition, which needs more and more cost reductions, has finally fallen above all on the weak part of its economic components, that of work and its value; a component which, complicit trade unions and the lack of political representation, continues to pay the highest prices. A situation aggravated by the introduction of the euro, due to the agreements of absolute disadvantage negotiated by our then government representatives, with those dramatic final effects on the salaries mentioned by the President of the Council, as clarified a few days ago a report by the Giuseppe Di Vittorio Foundation, which compared the current average wages of Italian employees with those of the past, comparing them also to the other major European countries. Moral: in Italy, in the period between 2010 and 2017, annual wages have suffered a loss of 1,059 euros, while that of the German employee has risen - on the contrary - by 3,825 euros per year. That being the case, Mr President, we are wondering how long we can hold the unbalanced picture of global competitions of a system of rules which prevents the countries of the Union from using traditional instruments to revive the economy in crisis. Because of the absurd budgetary constraints deriving from the fiscal compact, there is no longer the possibility of relaunching the deficit economy, all the more so in our country, where the past knot of the public debt risks to mortgage even the fate of the next generations. It is for these reasons, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we expect a blow from Europe, the famous new course I was talking about earlier. With the commitments you have made today in this House, we are sure that you will be able to carry out our requests with determination both at the bilateral summit and at the European agenda for 9 April with the Chinese Government, whose content will also be the subject of the next European Council. For all this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I announce the support of the Movimento 5 Stars for the majority's motions for resolutions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u80	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Colleagues, today, due to an accident during a motorbike competition taking place in Algeria, Giovanni Stefani, father of the senator and minister Erika, failed. This is therefore a completely unexpected news, and I would like to express the condolences and closeness of this House to Senator Stefani and all his relatives. In the certainty that the senator will be able to overcome this difficult test in the spirit that has always distinguished her, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u81	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation for each of the two subjects. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 7 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 9 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 10, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u82	The next item is the debate on document IV-a, No 1, which contains: "Report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorisation to proceed to trial, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore, for the offence referred to in Article 605, paragraphs one, second, number 2, and third, of the penal code (sequestration of aggravated person) transmitted by the Attorney General of the Republic to the Tribunal of Catania on 23 January 2019." The report has been printed and distributed. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the refusal of the request for authorization to proceed in court against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior protempore, waiting for the subsistence in the case of the case of the exigency of the pursuit of the pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government referred to in Article 9, paragraph 3, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. I inform you that two minority reports have been submitted by Senator Grasso and Senator De Falco. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u83	Yes, Mr President, thank you. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities proposes to the Senate Assembly the refusal of authorization to proceed with respect to Senator and Minister Matteo Salvini, because, as it illustrates and motivates my report, we believe that there has been the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government, as stated in the Constitutional Law of 1989, to which the Junta of course referred. As we will illustrate, there are many reasons that have led to this choice, which the Junta has taken with a large majority. Of course, the last word on this case will be for the Senate Assembly, but as rapporteur I trust that the Assembly will also confirm the favourable opinion on the proposal that I put forward in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. For reasons of time I will not explain all the progress of the facts that we are dealing with: the arrival in the port of Catania of the ship Diciotti of the Coast Guard with immigrants on board. The report, which is for your attention, punctually describes all the events, times and all that has happened. I would also like to stress here, not because the Senate is not aware of this, but for those who should follow us, that these works are of some importance, because in recent times we have no precedent of this importance and the debate is certainly important also for the future. I would like to remind you that until 1989 there was the investigating Commission, which in Parliament dealt with the events that the members of the Government invested in judicial terms; there was a referendum in the autumn of 1987 that abolished the investigating Commission. As a result of that event, the 1989 Act No 1 was passed, which, to put it in a contemporary language, reduced the protection of the caste, did not extend it, then other forms of immunity were abolished; those provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution, which should not be confused with those we are discussing and which relate to the opinions that we parliamentarians express in the exercise of our activity. On the other hand, this is part of the forecasts set out in Article 96 of the Constitution, another chapter. By abolishing the investigative Commission, a sort of special justice - let us call it for simplicity - for the members of the Government, these were entrusted to the judgment of the ordinary judiciary, precisely for a sense of greater balance in the relationship between the institutions. However, in order to rebalance this reliance on the ordinary judiciary and to prevent pretentious complaints or unfounded initiatives from hindering the action of a Government, a filter has been introduced which is made up of the court of Ministers, composed of some magistrates drawn by lot in the various territorial realities, among those who have five years of experience in the courts, who are entrusted with an evaluation. In the present case, this court of ministers has decided to delegate to the House of Membership, i.e. to the Senate, the evaluation of the behaviour of Senator Minister Salvini. I must say that the prosecutor of the Republic of Catania, as is well known, had asked for the dismissal of this matter, not considering that there were no ordinary crimes or ministerial crimes, but the court of ministers, as was its power, had a different opinion and that is why this debate opened. First, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and then the Assembly must not make an early trial; Parliament's task is to verify whether the requirements laid down in Law No 1 of 1989, a constitutional law which introduced this procedure, are met. I am now going to read the part of this law that, in article 9, paragraph 3, states that the Shareholders' Meeting, in this case of the Senate, may, by an absolute majority of its members, deny the authorization to proceed where it considers, with indispensable evaluation, that the inquisition has acted for the protection of an interest of the State constitutionally relevant or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. I would like to make this premise clear to the public that we are not faced with the privilege of absolute immunity and that we are not voting only politically, on the basis of belongings; There is also a legal assessment, as the report clearly justifies much more than I can do in my speech. I therefore call on my colleagues, as an important act of this parliamentary term, to read the 16-page text of a parliamentary act (it was necessary to argue and motivate). We must therefore find these reasons why the Junta considered there to be a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. The first decision the Council had to make was whether it was a ministerial offense or not. It is certainly a ministerial offence, because it is linked to the functions of Minister of the Interior; after that it is not that any ministerial offence can be entrusted to this procedure. There are examples in the report: if a minister takes money to authorize a public work, it is a ministerial offence, because it is the status of Minister that allowed him to carry out that illegal action but could never claim a prominent public interest, which could never exist in the face of the appropriate money for private illicit interests. There are also insurmountable limits that we have identified and on this the Junta has discussed a lot, asking itself, in particular, whether the compression of rights - as we believe it has happened in this case - is a value that can prevail over other aspects, while an irreversible injury of rights (the death of a person or other effects that are no longer recoverable) could not have allowed to apply the claim. We therefore considered that there was certainly a ministerial nature of the crime, and I believe that this is quite obvious, but we felt that the conditions for the allegations were there. We have also discussed in the Junta that, I repeat, not everything can be covered by the reasons set out in the 1989 law: there must be a balance of facts. I would like to draw your attention - I repeat for the second time to those from outside who say that Parliament wants to be self-absolved - to the fact that the prosecutor of the Republic of Catania Zuccaro had asked for the dismissal, not considering that there were common crimes, nor ministerial ones. The court of ministers has thought differently, but with respect to what will be the opinion of the Senate, which will be decided by tomorrow's vote in one direction or another, I mean that we must not have the whole illegality of our choices, because the judiciary has also discussed within it with different orientations. Palermo's attorney had stripped herself of the affair, considering that Catania was territorially competent, but in any case constituting the possible offence as a ministerial. There would be a lot of things to say, and I will perhaps respond to them in response to what will be said in the debate. We believe that, in this case, no irreversible injury can be seen in relation to fundamental rights. There is no doubt that, due to the lack of authorisation to land, the immigrants in question had to remain on board the Diciotti vessel for five days. However, this ship could be considered a safe place, being anchored in port and being constantly assisted by doctors and supplied with the essential necessities necessary, therefore with the necessary safeguards. It should also be mentioned that some immigrants who were in precarious physical or unaccompanied minors were landed during that stage. In other words, there is no known irreversible damage that has been suffered. Then it must also be said that the immigrant who arrives in Italy in these ways does not have total freedom of movement: he must go to the hotspots, he must be identified, so the concept of free movement also has limitations that the same international conventions have safely considered practicable (I think of Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights). So there were no irreversibly damaged rights. As far as the other issues are concerned, it has also been said that, for example, there was no collegial act of the Government. The government wouldn't make a decision and there wouldn't be a piece of paper that records this. Apart from the fact that we all followed in those days the chronicle of events, the meetings that followed, the representatives (technical or political representatives) sent by the government to Brussels at various meetings to try in those four or five days to divide the reception of immigrants, with a negative result that then, when there was no sharing, led to the landing of the same immigrants, who were led against their will near Rome, to Rocca di Papa, in a place chosen by the Government and agreed. Then, from there, not being held, they took the thousand roads they chose. But also the transfer from the Messina hot spot to Rocca di Papa did not happen by their choice. They were put on buses and brought there. To those who dispute the collegiality of government decisions, however, the report reminds that the President of the Count Council intervened in this Chamber on the Diciotti case on 12 September 2018. And I do not quote, for the economy of time, the phrases of total sharing of the government's immigration policy in relation to the Diciotti case. Those who say that there are no acts of collegiality, say a castronery, because there is more than one public intervention in the Parliament of the President of the Council: recorded intervention, transmitted, verifiable and that anyone can, from here to eternity, trace in parliamentary records, in written, audio and video forms. Therefore, there is a very clear statement by the President of the Council, of full and total collegial sharing of the Government. I would stress this because it is important for the reasons that constitutional law No. 1 of 1989 requires. President Conte's remarks are found in the report, but I would also like to remind you that the President of the Council has spoken on many occasions on immigration in government policies, and he has also spoken about it today, in truth. He had spoken on June 5, 2018, when he was installed here in the Senate Chamber; on June 27, in view of a European Council; on October 16, 2018 and on December 11, 2018. He has intervened many times on immigration policies, reaffirming stricter guidelines than those of previous governments. On the Diciotti case, he spoke on 12 September, and not before, because the Senate Chamber did not hold meetings in the last part of August. Otherwise, communications could have taken place even earlier; however, they were carried out within the fifteen days following the events. Turning to the conclusion and having to refer to the written considerations, I note that the memory of Minister Salvini contains important considerations, including the concerns that the National Committee for Order and Security (in August, in August, in August, a traditional meeting was held) had emerged about the risk of infiltration of people, not all well-intentioned, in the various shipments of illegal immigrants. A general and general concern, but which had been expressed in good time. Everyone remember the debate that has taken place on the role of NGOs, including in the previous parliamentary term. Therefore, we believe that all this (the statements by the President-in-Office, the memory of Mr Salvini, the examination of the facts, the circumstances that the law invites us to look at) is very clear. In the memoirs and documents that the Junta has examined there is also the mandate, given to those who represented us at the meetings in Brussels, where immigrants were to be divided and where no understanding was reached and therefore, in the end, the landing took place. In conclusion, Mr President, we will try to add other arguments to the reply, responding to doubts, but we believe that the principle of balancing and compressing rights with respect to other pressing requirements has been fully respected. In some other reports I see cited judgments of the Constitutional Court concerning Article 68 of the Constitution. I have seen illustrious lawyers confuse in the newspapers Article 51 of the Criminal Code, which has nothing to do with Article 96 of the Constitution. But we will have time to write and talk about this. We have collected a number of truly phenomenal legal gems, which show that the specific issue has not been evaluated. But we'll write this in literature when it's time. Now, however, we must judge the existence of these requirements, as the law imposes on us. Therefore, this is not a purely political decision, as someone has said and written, but an assessment that must be based on respect for that grey area, where there might be a crime, if there were not, however, a principle of primary interest that balances the behaviors aimed at implementing a security policy. Needless to give examples of the future. I've read about everything: for example, "if all the young people were to lock up in a school..." But we judge concrete cases, we don't do science fiction. Therefore, the Council has judged this case for how it has been expected, for its detailed case-law, with long meetings where everyone has been able to take the floor several times so that, then, the investigative activity arrives in the Chamber carried out with great seriousness and precision. I hope that there will be no future cases, but they will also be judged with the rigour that each case must have. Mr President, I have concluded and thank you for your patience, but the case is of great importance. We have written this report, for which I very much thank the offices which have given great cooperation in terms of competence and legal wisdom. I would also like to say to you, Mr President, with the pride of the Senate, that, in addition to us senators, who do our part, the Offices, which do legal research and in-depth research, are valuable. We believe that we have written a report which will make the Senate proud of its work and assessments even for the sake of the future. I therefore trust that my colleagues will approve the proposal of the Junta, which I have explained to you as rapporteur, to refuse permission to proceed with regard to Senator and Minister Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u84	I would ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u85	Mr President, I wish to supplement it, and I hope that I have given the majority rapporteur the same time to explain it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Ministers of Catania has found in the facts of the Diciotti case a possibility of crime and on that it asks this House whether or not to authorize criminal proceedings against Minister Salvini. The conclusions of the majority report, in my opinion, present errors of assessment and constitute a precedent which, for the benefit of all, is not to be created. The contested crime is the seizure of a aggravated person, Article 605 of the penal code which protects, in accordance with Articles 2 and 13 of the Constitution, as the inviolable right of the person, personal freedom, which cannot bear any restriction \ if not by act motivated by the judicial authority and in the only cases and methods provided for by law }. In particular, the judges consider that Minister Salvini has committed a kidnapping against the shipwrecks of the Diciotti ship with the verbal order not to land them, in violation of international and national regulations on rescue at sea, more widely cited in my written report. (The sitting was suspended at 7.23 p.m. and resumed at 9.23 p.m.) From this regulatory framework, it is clear that the Italian State is obliged to assist people in distress at sea and to complete the coordination of the event with the indication of a safe place or a place on land where rescue operations are concluded. In his report, President Gasparri made arguments in support of the refusal of authorisation, with all due respect, in my view unfounded, to justify the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in relation to the deprivation of personal freedom. In the Diciotti case, there were no pre-conditions for any international dispute justifying the blocking of the landing and in any case any dispute between Italy and Malta should have been dealt with in accordance with the rules and customs, for example through arbitration or recourse to the International Court of Justice. Well, it does not appear that Italy has undertaken any of these initiatives. In fact, the Italian authorities ask the Member States of the European Union to implement a redistribution of migrants on board the Diciotti and the report of President Gasparri identifies this as the objective pursued by the Government, that is, the attempt to overcome the Dublin Regulation in favour of policies that foresee different logics of distribution at European level of migrants. This is acceptable and legitimate, but keeping human beings on board an Italian ship to put political pressure on Europe in order to change the regulations, well, it is completely illegitimate. The proof of the intent to exploit the Diciotti case is that the contacts, at European level, began even before the ship was moored in Catania, since August 16, as the acts show, in order to obtain forcefully the voluntary redistribution, without being able to do so. Only on 25 August, when Albania, Ireland and the IEC were acquired, was the landing authorisation given. It therefore appears from the acts in an incontrovertible way that the order not to land the shipwrecked has been issued in order to exert pressure on the other States of the European Union. A form of moral coercion that could lead to the criminal offence of kidnapping for the purpose of coercion provided for in Article 289-b of the Criminal Code. Unlike President Gasparri, who qualifies it as the pre-eminent public interest, Minister Salvini uses in his defensive memory precisely the thesis, already denied, of the international dispute, but to justify the protection of an interest of the constitutionally relevant State. How can this be done when, precisely through the conduct of the Minister, the international obligations of rescue at sea have been violated, which assume a higher rank than internal discipline, precisely in accordance with Articles 2, 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitutional Charter? Even admitting the thesis of the dispute, the fact remains that Italy was the owner of the SAR event (search and rescue), i.e. the rescue of the sea, and had to complete the operations precisely with the indication of the safe place and the consequent landing. The refusal of the release of the POS (the place of safety, so called) and the consequent prohibition of landing cannot therefore be constituted as a political act in the strict sense, but rather as an omission interrupting an administrative procedure, put in place by Minister Salvini only on the basis of political assessments and purposes. The Minister should therefore have neither been able to interfere in the determinations of the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration, except for serious reasons of order and public security, which fall - yes - into his duties. Yet he did so, without any written act or clear motivation, in the absence of any national security emergency or terrorist infiltration. Why did you do that? What led him to allow the landing only on August 25th, after ten days from the rescue? The aim, which failed miserably, was from the beginning to show the muscles in Europe, to hold the shipwrecked as hostages to affirm the political turning point in the management of migratory flows. The fundamental rights of persons recognised by the law can be limited, but only if they impose unbearable demands of constitutional rank and not any form of political strategy, in addition to the medium and long term. On the ministerial nature of the crime the rapporteur Gasparri proposes a bizarre thesis and without precedents jurisprudentiali, that contrasts frontally with the entire body normative. In order for an offence to qualify as a ministerial offence, there must be two circumstances: the offender at the time when it is committed must be a member of the Government or the President of the Council and there must be a connection between the conduct that constitutes the wrongdoing and the duties exercised by the Minister. It is therefore paradoxical to argue that the pattern of ministeriality of a crime is stopped on the threshold of the injury of fundamental rights, when the property protected by the norm that is assumed violated is just one of those rights such as personal freedom. It cannot be justified that for a political end a member of the Government can deprive someone of his personal freedom or freedom of movement for a time appreciable, even if not irreversible, without then facing a trial. The rapporteur's argument seems more motivated by dialectical-political opportunism than by legal reasons, to which the Senate must adhere strictly. It is up to the Assembly, in defense of the principle of separation of powers, to assess whether the conduct of the Minister who in abstract constitutes a crime (if it is in practice then it is the prerogative of the judicial authority to decide it) is justified by a public interest of pre-eminent constitutional rank, i.e. prevailing over that violated by conduct. This is by no means the case because it has been shown to be amply that the interest in border security that has been intended to protect is not at all at stake when the choice is whether to have an Italian military ship - State territory - 177 desperate and instead to cannonize an invader that is landing on our coasts with tanks and artillery. The risks associated with a misassessment by the Senate are very high. Would the same assessments have been made if the case were not for some foreign nationals on a ship, but for a school full of students? Those are the assumptions that we have to make. To subtract Mr Salvini to the judgment of the judiciary - take good care, to the judgment, not to the sentence - risks turning into a precedent, in my opinion, very dangerous. We do not know, we cannot know who and for what purpose in the future will use this precedent, which generates a substantial immunity to justify similar or even worse actions. Personal freedom - I repeat - is an inviolable right and as such pre-eminent of any political purpose. For these reasons - just mentioned here, but dealt more broadly with in the report before us - I propose that my fellow senators give permission to proceed with Mr Salvini. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u86	I would ask the minority rapporteur, Senator De Falco, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u87	Mr President, I would like to supplement and briefly explain the report that I have submitted. President and colleagues, the debate and the vote on the request for permission to proceed are a crucial moment in the institutional and political life of this country, not so much and not only as regards the assumed legal responsibility of Minister Salvini, as the previous rapporteur said, that it is not up to the Senate to declare, but for the very principles and foundations of the State that this case calls into question. Constitutional law No. 1 of 1989 - to which Senator Gasparri also referred - has profoundly modified the system of the so-called investigating Commission by means of a procedure which totally excluded the intervention of the ordinary judiciary. With this amendment, Parliament now takes on the role of defending the ministerial function. The Senate is called today to decide only if the behaviour of which the Minister is accused is covered by the criminals provided for in article 9, paragraph 3, of the Constitutional Law n.1 of 1989, i.e. if it has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a preeminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. In order to recognize the existence of the claim, a comparison must be made, as has been said, between the sacrifice of the rights compressed and used as means with respect to the purpose pursued, verifying in concrete the prevalence (if there is) of the latter. Only in this case does the subtraction of the natural court constitute a derogation compatible with the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. The comparison must be carried out in accordance with reasonableness, rationality and proportionality and for a period of time limited to the strict essential. It is a matter of carrying out, as it were, an objective weighing of the interests at stake, which, however, in the majority report, in fact, does not exist at all. The report suggests that simple government action is in itself a preeminent public interest; and it was even clearer in this sense the first version (but the concealment is very modest). We are faced with a conception of power which would tend to be released from all objective criteria and therefore from any legal control, not subject to the principle of responsibility. This principle is the cornerstone of every rule of law, in which the rules count more than the votes. No one, not even the Government, not even the pro-tempore parliamentary majority that supports it, is above the law. The criminal policy is aimed at defending the ministerial function in relation to a concrete, specific public interest, provided that it also happens that this interest is prominent. For the majority report, however, any action put in place by the Government would create a public interest, even always prominent, with the paradoxical effect - one of the many paradoxes of the majority relationship - of having the Government, which is the summit of the State-equipment, the general interest of the State-community, with a clear twist of sense that does not seem to be able to hold a barely attentive examination of the letter and the spirit of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. In fact, a new concept, that of government interest, would be introduced, completely disenchanted by any comparison and comparison that might allow to determine whether or not there is the necessary primacy. The desired conceptual and terminological confusion reaches the extreme consequences, in fact dissolving not only the concept of "preminent" but also that of the public interest, which is assimilated without any legal or logical support to a government interest, that is, a partisan interest, with the ability to compress even essential rights, without making any balance between compressed rights and, so to speak, governmental interest (they mean it in this sense), public and preeminent pursued, in substantial violation of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. The majority report, if approved, would in essence allow a Minister in government activity not to have to take account of the laws and act according to his own will even seizing perhaps up to 177 people, forced to stay under the sun for days in the hottest period of the year on a military ship not equipped to accommodate so many people for such a long period as the ship Diciotti. This despite the meritorious interest, among other things, of the command on board, which has tried in every possible way to alleviate the suffering of the shipwrecked. With regard to the question of the collegial responsibility of the Government in the matter of the ship Diciotti, affirmed by the president of the council Count, the vice president Di Maio and the minister Toninelli, I observe that the Constitution considers collegially responsible the President of the Council and the Ministers in the Council of Ministers. The Ministers are, in fact, collectively responsible for the acts of the Council of Ministers and individually for the acts of their Dicasteries. There has been no Council of Ministers in the days of the Diciotti affair. Senator Gasparri believes he can support the argument - it seems to me rather adventurous - that a formal Council of Ministers would not be necessary to say that there is a collegiate responsibility of the Government, but it must be taken into account that, however, the possible political responsibility of the Government would not detect from the criminal point of view, and the possible political responsibility can also be of the only Minister of the Interior, in the case of acts of his Dicastery. In short, it is not a question of censoring a political act of the Government, but an illegitimate use of a technical administrative power, delegated moreover from the competent structure of the Ministry of Infrastructure (Italian marine rescue coordination centre) to the Department for civil liberties and immigration of the Ministry of the Interior in order to a decision, not free but obliged, to indicate the place of safety (POS) in order then to make the disembarkation of the shipwrecks. It is therefore an internal act to an administrative procedure that, as all the testimonies show, Minister Salvini has blocked in order to have first denied the authorization to indicate the POS already decided, and then, after the entrance of the ship in port to Catania (where there were fifty police men, thirty for the reception and twenty for the public order to wait for the disembarkation from that ship), for having arranged the prohibition of disembarkation always and only informally. The President-in-Office's statement makes it clear that this is a question of disguised trust. The President of the Council, but above all the political leader of the Movement, also through the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movimento 5 Stars of the Senate, are threatening to warn the senators that they should consider voting in favour of the authorization to proceed, making them feel unduly responsible for the government's holding. This is serious, very serious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This political threat is an inappropriate weapon, unlike what the majority report suggests. In fact, we are not judging the Government, least of all its immigration policy or its relations with the European Union. We're not even judging the minister. We only need to check whether immunity should be granted to the Minister, since we are in the presence of the criminals who have legitimised the compression of the right of freedom of 177 persons, men, women and children, detained on board between 20 and 25 August 2018. Moving the question from this bitter concreteness concerning the useless violence suffered by 177 people (------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ I shall confine myself to the written report for the detailed examination of the conventions governing rescues at sea, recalling that the obligation to save lives at sea is a specific duty which is incumbent on all States. Senator Grasso has already said this: he prevails over any other rule, having joined the international conventions that regulate the matter and which, moreover, result in customary practices. Therefore, they are already, beyond the convention, customary public law, therefore inescapable. Nor can the ordinary legislator, as we are, possibly derogate from those obligations. No one can derogate from those obligations. The rescue operation, which includes rescue, must be brought to the further and ultimate consequence of landing in a safe place, which means landing in a place from which people can then be taken to subsequent destinations. The ship is not a safe place: international conventions expressly exclude it. It is not true what the majority report says about this. That's just not true. Here I would just like to remind you of the key point of the matter, namely the failure to grant the POS and the subsequent imposition of the landing ban. Initially, the POS was rightly to be identified by Malta in its territory, being a safer place closer to the area where relief operations had started, as provided for in European Union Regulation No 656 of 2014. However, the Maltese authorities did not in any way intend to accept the Italian request. Since the IMRCC, the General Command of the Harbour offices, had received the news and coordinated the rescues, it was still required to identify a POS in the national territory in compliance with the principle of the necessary integrity of the SAR services. There can't be an empty area. On 15 August and following 17 August POS requests were repeated by the General Command of the offices to the Department of the Ministry of the Interior. In the inertia of this Department, that it is a delegated technical agency, the same IMRCC - it seems at the disposition of the minister Toninelli - has arranged that the ship Diciotti docked in Catania, in fulfillment, in fact, of the obligations placed from the resolution MSC 167(78). Minister Salvini responded to this decision with one of the many social measures, imposing the prohibition of landing from Diciotti. Diciotti, as Senator Grasso has already said and it is important to repeat it, is a military ship, it is Italian territory, even more so in the inland waters of a port like Catania. Those people were already in Italy, banning landing didn't make any sense. Once again the majority report is wrong when it says that the rescue from the sea ends when the shipwreck is on board. That's not true, we said it and I want to repeat it. The shipwrecks were used as improper trading goods in a double confrontation with Malta and the European Union, which, among other things, has seen us losers in both cases, obtaining neither that Malta indicated a POS, nor that there was a redistribution of shipwrecks. Minister Salvini had also initially argued that there were shipwrecks on the Italian ship taken on board possible criminals or terrorists. This thesis was soon abandoned by the Minister, but it was briefly taken up by anonymous officials of the Ministry on 29 January, officials who had even supported, in a press release to Adnkronos, that investigative magistrates would not take into account the statements made by them to this effect. The same Minister Salvini then, on the 31st of the same month, answering the questions repeatedly repeated by a journalist, could not claim that there were specific elements related to Diciotti and he had to limit himself to speaking in these terms: On the boats there is of every... According to the constitutional order, subtraction from ordinary jurisdiction constitutes a derogation compatible with the fundamental principles of the State only if, in practice, the behaviour that complements the criminal case is intended to protect a constitutional legal asset pre-eminent of the compressed one, on the basis of a comparison carried out according to criteria of reasonableness, rationality and proportionality. It is not possible, in the absence of these criteria of assessment and comparison, to remove Minister Salvini from the investigation of the judicial authority. Moreover, President Gasparri's report, with its fluidity and uncertainty, certainly seems suitable to create a really very dangerous precedent since the compression of the rights it claims may of course not be limited only to the case of this case or to the unscrupulous action of a Minister protempore but be invoked in future, in different but similar situations, by other Ministers who have the will to justify decisions, not necessarily related to shipwrecks or migrants (even if migrants and shipwrecks, it must be remembered, however, are people and also they have full rights and dignity), which involve temporary limitation of personal freedom. It is therefore desirable for the Senate of the Republic to reaffirm that Italy is still a rule of law and to grant authorization to proceed, allowing Minister Salvini to defend himself in the trial and not from the trial, before the judge pre-established by law, a circumstance which, as he himself explained, does not frighten him. So let's move on. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u88	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u89	Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask you whether there is any news of Vice-President Salvini. I think it would have been respectful of the Senate Assembly if it had been here to hear President Gasparri's majority report and the two interesting minority reports. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not know, perhaps there is news, perhaps there is an impediment, a delay or a request to postpone work until tomorrow morning. I ask you, Mr President, because I think it is important for Mr Salvini, but also for us all, and also for the authority of the institution we represent, for him to be present. I would ask you, therefore, if it is possible to suspend the work pending that Minister Salvini can reach us or at least that the presidency of the Senate can be activated. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Or I would ask the representative of the Government, with respect to this point, to tell us what commitments have prevented Minister Salvini from being present with us this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u90	The Presidency will certainly be in breach of its demands. In the meantime, I would ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u91	Mr President, I will make my speech, but I repeat: I believe that it is primarily in the interests of the presidency of the Senate, but also of the whole Government, to ensure that Vice-President Salvini can listen to the speeches on such a sensitive subject, in political terms, in terms of constitutional rights, in terms of the function of the institutions: of the Government, which does and carries on the political line, but also of Parliament, which expresses its votes on this matter. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr President, I continue my speech, but I ask you, kindly, but in strict and institutional terms, to make contact with Minister Salvini and to make a heartfelt appeal for him to be present during the debate on this issue so important for our country, for our Government, for our Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not the only note of concern on this matter, Mr President and representative of the Government. It is a very serious matter, which concerns us all: not all of us Members of Parliament, I believe it concerns all of us Italians. I listened carefully to all the reports: the two minority members appeared to me much more convincing than the majority. As it seems to me that the debate within the Council has had the right tone and the right tone, but that President Gasparri's conclusions do not take account of it. The right, but also the political logic and the institutional respect should have brought the majority rapporteur to very different conclusions, respecting, moreover, the initial will of Vice President Salvini, who had, in the immediacy of the matter, declared his willingness - rightly, I say - to submit to the judgment that was required. We are concerned that this is a complex political phase. Some spoke of an exchange vote, of the proximity between the vote on this sensitive issue and the request for individual distrust of Minister Toninelli. It may be a coincidence, Mr President, representatives of the Government, but this contiguity makes us a little worried. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We take note of this, but it is certainly not our main concern, because - alas - we are now accustomed by this majority to mechanisms of dout des, i.e. exchange of appointments, armchairs and political choices, between the League and the 5 Star Movement, although I note that today the majority, on such a politically important issue, has actually expanded. The main concern, for example, is respect for our Constitutional Charter, Mr President. The Constitutional Charter on this issue has been upset and I would say offended more than once; it was, for example, on Article 67. The protagonists of this offense were all the MPs of the 5 Star Movement, because they agreed to a choice that goes clearly against the constitutional dictates. Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation and shall perform his duties without a mandate. We wanted to re-introduce the bond of mandate and we did so without even entrusting it to the choices of a political party with democratic mechanisms but to a mechanism linked to a web platform that no one validated, controls and knows in depth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since the Movimento 5 Stars had political difficulties in voting on this issue, it decided to follow this path to impose on individual parliamentarians a painful, difficult and against the fundamental nature of the movement itself, which has always stated on many occasions its opposition to the mechanisms linked to the authorization to proceed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It seems to me that these days the slogans as "one is worth" are no longer adequate: today it decides Casalegio with the platform Rousseau and all the MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars have the obligation to respond to that order on time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Not only that, my fellow Parent Company, just because too many days have passed since that consultation, just a few hours after the vote, wanted to remember that if someone were to decide to vote, as the Constitution provides, according to science and conscience, respecting the papers that have been presented to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, they should pay the political consequences. Mr President, this is unacceptable. We must all work together on these issues and defend the Constitution, the Senate of the Republic and our role in protecting democracy. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Moreover, the offenses to the Senate and Parliament have been done on several occasions, in the last few months of government, by this majority. I don't want to go back to the very sad affair of the frauds linked to the election of the President of Rai. Nor do I want to go back to the matter of the last budget law, which has been voted on without the Members knowing what it is. It was about violence against Parliament, the Constitution and democracy. On the ship Diciotti there was worse: it was built - ex post - a path to give credit to a line of defense that was simply not there. The crime we are talking about, the kidnapping of persons (in this case) is very serious and harms the availability of the heritage of the most precious asset that each individual has, that is his or her individual freedom. This was an unprecedented affair in a democratic country. Article 13 of the Constitution reads as follows: "No form of personal detention, inspection or search, or any other restriction of personal freedom, except by a reasoned act of the judicial authority and in the cases and manner provided for by law" shall be permitted. These cases and ways provided for in the law are not here. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In those five days Minister Salvini has decided not to respect the law of our country and to reduce to prisoners a substantial number of people, and I add: in addition to the people who are staying on that ship, also the crew of the same, who has been kidnapped in a way and with an attitude of unprecedented violence. Mr President, the government's immigration policies are not under discussion today. Today there is a different question: whether Minister Salvini should be tried or not, whether or not the judiciary has the right to judge him, whether he has the duty to face a transparent, clear and clear process in front of the Italians, whether or not the Italians have the duty to know what happened in those hours, whether the truth of the Minister's Cabinet is in the first or second version (which has been changed) whether the positions taken by the President of the Council and Minister Toninelli have been the result of successive political forcings or not. These are the things that Minister Salvini should respond to before a court of law. He decided not to do so, he decided to blackmail the majority and he decided to involve Forza Italia in a delicate passage like this, forming - alas - a new majority in Parliament. The Democratic Party will speak with all its parliamentarians tonight to show that we need firmness, transparency and clarity towards the country. The Government has the right and also the duty to pursue its policies, including on immigration. These are policies that the Democratic Party does not share, but the government has this right. He does, but he has to respect Italian law, the Constitution and our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A dark page of our Parliament is being painted and I appeal to all my colleagues, their sensitivity and their attachment to the institution they represent. There is time: everyone looks inside himself, takes time to look at the cards and will know what decision to make. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u92	Senator Marcucci, regarding your request, as you know, the Minister may not be present. However, the Presidency is obliged to represent its politically motivated request for the Minister's presence in the Chamber. However, he can follow the work and know it through the forms of publicity provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the point you represented was different. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask the majority rapporteur a question. It is true, Senator Gasparri, as you have read, that the aforementioned article 9 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 provides that the Senate must assess whether the Minister has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant State interest, i.e. for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest. But may I ask what are these interests? In his very vague - in this sense - report I did not find any justification for the constitutionally relevant interest and even less of the pre-eminent public interest. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco]] It is clear, however, that, in accordance with Article 52 of the Constitution, if the defence of the State and the defence of the Homeland were to be identified, the constitutionally important and prominent interest in respect of the constitutional rights of migrants and Italian officials detained on board the Diciotti was not in any way a threat to the security of the State and of Italian citizens and therefore their seizure on board the Italian military vessel was not at all functional to achieve this objective. The revenge is then the counterproof represented by the escape of some of them after the landing. Isn't that behavior proof of the looming threat of some - perhaps dozens? - of migrants, but only the evidence, perhaps, of an inefficiency of the security equipment that had not been prepared. You see, I am not a Martian and therefore it is clear to me the context in which this debate takes place and what are the interests that have surrounded and surround this story, and that perhaps will surround also the current one, of which the chronicles speak in these hours, of the ship in view of the port of Lampedusa that has not been authorized to dock, with inside fifty - I say fifty - between men, women and children. Do they also pay attention to the interest of the State? Are we sure we're not being ridiculous, that we're not becoming ridiculous without wanting to? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco.]] Is the preeminent national interest at stake? No, it was and is at stake a political-diplomatic armament with other Member States of the European Union. And we simply wanted to use those people and those of today as lever or scapegoat or human shield - or as you want to call it - for this purpose which is therefore not, Mr President, a constitutionally relevant interest. It is simply a government reason, which is not even the most questionable state reason. In this case it is precisely a simple reason of government, for which everything is actually sacrificed, even personal freedom, not only of refugees but also of military Navy officials, held hostage for an end that, moreover, has not even been achieved. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Are we starting again today with the ship in view of the port of Lampedusa? All this leads me to say to the Minister - I believe also for good education and for the dignity of the Senate itself - that from what I remember - and I have had many debates about parliamentary immunity - there was at least the decency and decency to attend such debates. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Falco and Monti.]] I'm talking about decorum and institutional decency. This tangle of interest is clear to me and there is only one chance in it of saving oneself: following the law. Since the Minister is not here, I hope that you, Mr President, will be able to report to him that the appeal to arrest them, which Mr Salvini has just made today, is not in accordance with the law. It's not up to the Minister of Police to decide who's arrested. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] This is a power of the judiciary. Today we must not suffer such interference in such a heavy way, because maybe tomorrow we will hear him say words like: not only do you have to arrest them, but I want to see them rot in prison. Someone reminds the Minister that in Italian prisons you must not rot. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger.]] We must not rot, because prison is the deprivation of freedom, not dignity. Today we are faced with a situation - in my opinion - very important as a precedent and from this very dangerous point of view. Mr Minister - someone will tell you - regardless of the stentoreum he proclaims a few days ago - they also process me - that he has quickly turned into a trial that does not change my opinion - it has become not only a sign of wisdom, but also a rather extravagant sign - I think that you will have all the rights and possibilities to defend yourself in the trial, but I also think that there is no reason for this privilege to be used, this shield that exempts an Italian citizen in government function from the procedural road that millions of Italians, perhaps even for minor crimes, face every day and perhaps for many years. I think it was at stake - as it will be these days - an arm wrestling with the European Union which, for the moment, you have lost, because it started from an unacceptable point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Vice President of the Council, the one who has told us throughout the election campaign that he would kick out all the 500,000 irregulars, between a fair and an exercise has also passed to the Viminale and someone must have told him that it is not possible to proceed because there are no return treaties, so much so that he himself had to admit that it will take eighty years. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger.]] And in these eighty years we want to move forward with those sagas that, of course, if they really honor the Coast Guard, certainly do not honor our country? You see, Mr. Representative of the Government, 500,000 are the irregulars and we are increasing them, because it is a banality that the landings have ended: in fact, perhaps they have decreased from us, but the medal is that they have increased the prisoners refugees in Libyan prisons, both private and public, all people subjected to rape and torture and you know it as well as I do. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] Don't tell me you saved his life: you only handed them over to torturers, which you are aware of and aware of. So, gentlemen of the government, if we want to avoid another frankly undignified saga for the citizens of this country - I hope it doesn't happen again - let those fifty migrants down and don't keep them another five or six days at the mercy of the waves. Mr SANTANGELO, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. They're down. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Did they come down? Great, great, it took this strength test. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani]] But you didn't say to arrest them all? In fact, the Vice President of the Council said: If they forget it, they will never go down on the Italian territory. It is a bit relative, since fortunately it fell after twenty-four hours. So let's make a policy a little more serious, a little more reasoned, of integrating the irregulars that we have. Let's stop foraging dictators of all prints and rhymes. And you, Mr Vice-President of the Council, go defend yourself in the process as happens to millions of Italian citizens; do not use the privilege of being exempted from it, because this is really only a privilege and speaks of someone who, in the defense of the rule of law, has never yielded anywhere to any kind of judicialism, and is guarantor for history, culture, for life, for struggles, from the Tortora case onwards. There is none of this in my words: there is only respect for the law and, if possible, also for common sense. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Falco and Grasso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u94	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we are called upon to express is not just about the fate of Mr Salvini, nor is it simply about the exchange of favours and armchairs between the League and Movimento 5 Stars: it is very serious and very dramatic about the maintenance of the democratic guarantees provided by our Constitutional Charter. We are not only called upon to decide whether or not to refuse permission to proceed with a minister. Rather, we are called upon by our vote to clarify the boundaries between the political direction and the Constitution. The stakes, therefore, are much higher than the fate of a single man and are much higher - let me remind the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars - than the safeguarding of political balances within the current majority or perhaps I should say to the continuation of the political seizure of the 5 Stars by the League. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Diciotti's is not the only kidnapping in this House. We are witnessing once again, in fact, the disturbing metamorphosis of a political force that had entered Parliament with the cry of honesty and that appears to us, today, prisoner of political conveniences that push it to deny everything for which it was born. But the Italians and Italians, dear colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, elected you in the Senate illusory by your false promise of change and not to undermine constitutional democracy. Citizens see what is happening and I am sure they will remember it. Today's vote is a dangerous precedent. The risk is to demonstrate that politics can everything, that there are no limits to the power of the majority, that the Government can break at its will values and constitutional principles, even putting into being conduct of criminal importance, as happened in front of the port of Catania; questions of criminal importance, where done means conduct. And the conducts of the minister Salvini have been deplorable, criminally important, in particular a conduct that has as subjective element of the crime the desired delay of the communication to the Diciotti of the equipped safe port for the disembarkation and the reception, as they preview the international conventions undersigned from our Country. It's happening again. It is happening, in these minutes, in these hours, a similar fact, in Lampedusa. We have witnessed the usual spectacle, depressing for a government, of directives issued via tweets, of responsibilities and, even, the threat of having those who have only respected the law of the sea arrested, which requires to welcome passengers on board of boats in difficulty, relocating them in the nearest safe harbour. What is at stake in this vote of ours, ladies and gentlemen, is the identification of the boundaries of government action, of the point where politics can go to pursue its own ends. These boundaries must be dictated by the parameters of reasonableness and appropriateness of the act and by the real defence of national security; elements all missing in the conduct of the Minister of the Interior; a conduct dictated only by motivation and consequent political advantage: an unlawful conduct, perpetrated by a Minister in perennial electoral campaign and I repeat in perennial electoral campaign! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Article 96 of the Constitution and Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 are very clear on this: the derogation from jurisdiction is exceptional and the Minister's immunity is viewed with disfavor. So much so that the parliamentary vote can only intervene to hinder the normal process of judgment on the conduct of the Minister by the judge. As Leopold Elijah pointed out - I would like to quote the great professor Elijah - precisely in this Chamber on 27 January 1988, that reform was the result of an egalitarian push, which Elijah himself even traced back to the great Tocqueville. Like any other citizen, the Minister is subject to jurisdiction and only in exceptional cases the authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings can be denied; exceptional cases, which have nothing to do with the trust relationship between Parliament and Government. As Leopoldo Elia always said, that of the Chambers is an assessment not on the work of the Minister, but on the existence of the extraordinary assumptions that exclude the ordinary competence of the judiciary. On this I want to hear you: I want to hear the speeches of my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars and the League on this relationship between ordinary and extraordinary. These assumptions - we know this - are the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State and the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government: not the electoral interest of the League and its head Salvini. In both cases it is the Constitution, not the policy, that must guide our assessment. The interest of the State must be constitutionally relevant and the pursuit of the public interest must take place in the exercise of a function of Government, a function of Government that is ab origin contained within the limits that the Constitution itself places on us. He said well again, Leopoldo Elia: to guide the evaluation of the Chambers must be not the reason of State, but the reason of Constitution and in this case it is not so. That is not the case here. We must beware, ladies and gentlemen, of the temptation to interpret from a party point of view interests that are collective, that are of the State, that this Parliament should represent, because with our vote we risk calling into question the ethical foundations of democracy; reason for the Constitution, therefore, and not the realization of electoral promises, as Minister Salvini has even claimed, trying to justify the opacity and gravity of his work; reason for the Constitution that - as once again in the House another great of our constitutional law, Gianni Ferrara - is also identified - and I say above all - with the protection of human dignity and fundamental rights. That dignity and those rights were denied by Salvini not only to the crew of the Diciotti - all Italian soldiers and sailors - but also to those 177 desperate people who have been broken down for days and days at sea, treated as rejections, by an unworthy political behavior of a Minister of the Republic and I urge myself to say - with great respect, unmistakable as usual - unworthy of a believing political man, who has even waved the Gospel and the Rosary in his meetings several times. But perhaps, for our sovereigns, solidarity is only in one sense, it applies only among them, whites, Catholics, better if married and certainly heterosexuals. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Shut up! CIRINNA' (PD). Today we are all called - or perhaps you are called because we have never had doubts since the first day - to choose between politics and the Constitution, between the interests of a political majority and the protection of fundamental rights guaranteed by our Charter. A precedent of this kind tomorrow would, in fact, justify increasingly serious violations of the rights and dignity of people, because it would be infinitely easier to justify them again. To affirm that the exercise of the function of government can go as far as breaking impunity - because you will save it from the trial - criminal legality means denying centuries of constitutionalism; it means hitting our Republican Charter to death. No wonder such a serious act comes from a self - defined populist and sovereign majority. Since the first day of its mandate, the Government has demonstrated that it does not have a culture of constitutional guarantees. How can we forget that President Conte had the courage to say in front of the United Nations General Assembly that our Constitution is sovereignist and populist, because Article 1 states that: Sovereignty belongs to the people. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That'd be funny, but I'm crying. How can we forget all the times when we heard from Salvini and other representatives of the Government that everything is granted to those who have 60 million Italians on their side. It's not like that, it's not like that. I'm telling President Conte, because Article 1 doesn't end up with that sentence, and he should know that as a jurist. Article 1 says that sovereignty belongs to the people, and it is true, but also that the people: "It exercises it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution", those limits that you will violate with this vow. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's not like that. I say this to the absent, to the fugitive, to the frightened and fleeting minister Salvini: you never have and will never have the consent of 99 percent of Italians and, even if it were, you would not still be an omnipotent majority. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Laugh, laugh: I remind you that democracy is not the will of the majority, but it is the government of the majority within the limits of the Constitution, which limits the exercise of power to guarantee the weakest and the political minorities with respect to the arbitrariness. For this reason there is the guarantee of fundamental rights, the separation of powers, the certainty of law and the principle of equality before the law, which the Italians outside of here know well. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u96	What's going on, colleagues? We are only at the beginning of the evening, therefore, holding back the enthusiasms and comments in that part of the House, also because the subject is very serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u98	Mr President, I wish to express my solidarity with Mr Candiani and my mother for what happened on Sunday, with deep personal emotion and, I believe, also on behalf of my Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Puglia and Rizzotti.]] The proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Gasparri, from a legal point of view, is, in my view, impeccable and we can summarize it as follows. The crime of which the Minister of the Interior has been accused is serious (aggravated in person, ex Article 605 of the Criminal Code). But Senator Gasparri's report, approved by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, argues that it is a ministerial crime and that the government's direction - it is well explained, recalling the facts - repeatedly expressed in Senate by President Conte and also in contacts with Europe, has been clear: the Government has provided for a different regulation and management of migratory flows; the responsibility is shared with Europe, for which those who land in Italy land in Europe; there is a redistribution of costs and migrants. Therefore, and in any case, it was the act of a whole Government and, therefore, the motive is governmental and Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 excludes the responsibility of the Minister. However, I believe - and I will return shortly to strictly legal reasons - that, below, this debate concerns other aspects, as I have heard from the speeches of my fellow Members. In fact, we are talking again about the issue of immigration, which we have dealt with several times in this House, clearly with very different political visions, which correspond to historical, intellectual and even religious visions in the broad sense, in a very delicate contingent period on the subject, since the warning of terrorism is always in place and immigration has been followed and managed by previous governments in a way that is too lax. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Furthermore, I cannot deny that in these concepts there is a reference to the electoral programmes of parties and coalitions, in particular that of center-right. The issue of immigration, like other hot topics at the moment, normally generates very deep discussions and divisions and debates in which there are also doses of malice, cynicism and excessive verbal violence. On this issue, as on others - and I am referring to the Congress of the family in the coming days in Verona - we have heard unsolicited statements, as counter-marcs organized on the spot by other parties. I think, however, that everyone has the right to make their own congresses and that people will do theirs, because there is talk of gender, uterus for rent and other very serious things that will have future deleterious consequences, because they are against nature. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti and Group L-SP-PSd'Az.]] In my opinion, God, home and family is a motto of life for the majority of Italians and not that other thing we have seen written on signs that have circulated. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] All this is because of relativism and prevailing nihilism. I am an admirer of the lectio magistralis of Regensburg by Benedict XVI. With relativism and, above all, with nihilism everything can be true and everyone can do what he wants and this destroys the possibility of Western Nations to survive as a community and civilization by denying its rules, history and truth. As for the facts of Diciotti, 177 migrants would remain five more days anchored in the port of Catania, but on the ship there were also the crew, food and medicines. Is it possible that the women and children who arrive are always sick? Men don't? Were the services on board? Were they in exact numbers? Did those people at home have services? Before coming to express such an opinion, in recent days wandering in my college in Cuneo, in the city of Alba, which I frequent most, and in my country called Priocca, I asked the people who met what I must vote and how to behave. They are countries where there is a Christian tradition, a sense of duty and a love of work. I would like to sum up, translating from the Piedmont dialect what I have heard because, if I said everything, the ceiling of this House would come down. It was and is time to change; politics must understand this and decide to protect the weakest citizens, who pay more for the reduction of the funds and the system of the social state and share with more and more masses the same treasure; they must divide the spaces, the work, even in black, with piles of people who arrive here, stop in inappropriate places and behave incorrectly. Not all of them, but the percentage is very high. The weak Italians do not live in the center, they do not have intellectual professions and someone must defend them and strangely the defense comes from the center-right. The operation Sophia was accepted by the Government of the previous epochs and with it established that the ports of disembarkation were always those Italian. I believe that this decision has been made in exchange for something, such as a greater financial gain. But is this protection of our interests? If we do so, according to the Sophia plan we must accommodate everyone: the migrants pursued, the economic ones, the terrorists to give job opportunities and profit to NGOs, cooperatives, Italian entrepreneurs without scruples. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Rizzotti]] That is the truth I have the courage to say. Is this work? Some say it is. It is a dirty, useless and harmful business for taxpayers and for the interests of the few and for future possible votes. In 2019, and in part of 2018, applying a government policy - we are in opposition, but where you can tell things as they are - there have been fewer landings - a drastic fall of 90 percent - and, therefore, less dead. The expulsions began in significant numbers. Fields of violence and filth of all kinds have been cleared. If we go back to legal reasons, we must talk about the division of powers in order to decide on this issue. The judiciary is an order that exercises an autonomous and independent judicial power under Articles 106 and 107 of the Constitution - we also mention it - guaranteed by the nominations for competition and by the immovability. This is the protection of the judiciary, but how does the executive power operate? It operates according to discretion. Then it is the interpretation of discretion that makes the difference. What is the discretion of political action? Before the government decides, do you have to ask the judiciary? What are the higher interests that must protect Italians? However, this has happened: politics in recent years - as serious scholars recognize it - from clean hands and subsequently accelerated, has given way to the right - someone also says to the market - because of their own fault, due to their own weakness in large part. He decided not to decide; he narrowed his boundaries in favor of other powers or orders (magistracy, bureaucracy, technocracy) that, by a physical principle, occupied those spaces. Today public opinion wants a policy that decides, that governments, that does not disappoint, and that judges it in real time on these aspects. If politics cannot do this, it does not want, it is not capable, who defends national interests? But then someone says: we might as well abolish politics; national and international courts decide. As this is not the case, he resumes politics - in this case through the vote of the Senate - his prerogatives in favour of a way of working that protects the citizens, protects the Italians. Forza Italia is always guaranteed and will act accordingly, with these and other reasons that will be expressed by my colleagues. I would have said: Minister Salvini, hold on to the Ionian Sea ship, but perhaps it was different; I do not know the reasons, it had to be so. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u99	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are deciding on an issue - I would like to remind you - which has no precedent. For the first time a court of ministers asked Parliament for permission to prosecute an interior minister who, for abuse of power, with the effect of being a public officer in the performance of his duties, deprived 177 persons, some minors among other things, and deliberately violated national norms and international conventions. It had never happened in the history of our Republic that a Minister of the Interior and his majority who supports him demanded that they deny permission to proceed in the name of a supposed and preeminent public interest, thus denying themselves to a principle of responsibility and to the principle of legality, fundamental principles of the constitutional state of law. Today's vote therefore has only as its object a judicial affair, which is also relevant, but also a vision of the State, of our Country, of Italy. The obligation to save a human life at sea - as I recall - is a specific duty that rests on every State and on any other rule. Italy has acceded to the international conventions governing the matter, which, in addition to deriving from customary international public law, constitute an insurmountable limit for the state legislator who, in compliance with Articles 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution, cannot derogate from it because they enter into the legal system through constitutional norms, and thus assume a hierarchical rank superior to ordinary law. That's what happened. The 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea states that each acceding State must require that the master of a vessel authorised to fly its flag, whether of the State or private, assist anyone at sea in danger. Well, today, in the name of a supposed superiority of the public interest, all this has failed; everything that has been built in all these years for the credibility of our country has failed. Everyone recognizes how much we help in international missions as well. Yet, all this has failed today, and to save what? To save the Minister - and I address in the majority those MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars who deny even the evidence of things - in order to remain in the government with the League. They were the ones who cried out to honesty, and they said that everyone had to submit to justice. They said "You are all investigated": we heard it for the five years continuously in the ears, we couldn't anymore. Now what? Quiet, nothing, you accept everything. If you wanted to change the rules of immigration, you had to do it where it was right to do it and where it was right to intervene. In the European bodies there was the Commission to change the Dublin Rules of Procedure; it is a pity that there was never the current Minister of the Interior, who was always around to make politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He was the most absentee. There have been twenty Commissions to regulate the Dublin Rules of Procedure, but no one from the League was ever present: this is what our MEPs have said. That is where things were actually to be regulated, not as they are now. It happened that our country is being isolated from everything. We were not in the places where Italy was supposed to be represented. Today, fortunately, the problem of the Ionian Sea has been solved, where we risked the same conditions. There was no reason to stop those poor human beings from staying at the mercy of the sea force 7. There really isn't any kind of criterion and I didn't understand why you show such a inhumanity, with the "me no care" and with the desire to move on, so you don't care. You don't think that life is the most valuable value for every person; person: I also want to say it, because people really have their importance, whatever color they have. The Minister had to have courage, but the courage he had in bringing the Gospel and swearing on it does not mean respecting it. He's absolutely not respecting him with his actions. But what Christian charity? Truly acts of inhumanity are being carried out here. Italy has always been respected, but we are losing all the values that have always marked us. It is not identifying every day an enemy that you can win the election. Sooner or later, you'll come to the reckoning. This is not the case and in any case the protests of the last few days - I remember - as the great demonstration of 2 March in Milan were a great response to everything that is happening and to all the actions that the yellow-green government is doing: an insensitive government, which even denies the protection of human rights, frivolous and trampling them. Unfortunately for the survival of this Government, the Minister, if he had courage, had to defend himself in the trial and not from the trial. Ours is still a rule of law, as my colleagues have said before. Like all citizens, he should have brought himself to justice and defended himself, just as he was right if he thought he was right. These are the reasons why we shall be voting in favour of the authorization to proceed with Mr Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u101	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Senators Augussori and Emanuele Pellegrini who, together with me and Senator Tesei, in Junta have examined the matter in detail and studied the papers that are being brought to this House today. We must not and do not want to go into the substance of the matter, because it is not up to us to do so. It is not for this House to judge anyone. We must limit ourselves to certain strictly legal assessments provided for in Article 9 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989. Basically we have to answer three very simple questions. The first: was Minister Salvini or was he not in the performance of his duties as Government when he brought the conducts today under the scrutiny of this Assembly? The answer is peaceful: certainly yes, he was acting as Minister, he was in the performance of his duties as Minister and even he was in the context of a decision taken by the entire Government, as has been confirmed to us over and over again by President Conte's statements in this same Chamber, even before the news came out that Minister Salvini was being investigated. So, we are peacefully in the beehive of ministerial conduct. We must then answer two other questions, namely whether Mr Salvini, in his conduct, has protected the constitutionally guaranteed interest of the State or whether he has protected a public interest. These are the questions we need to answer. As far as the second and third questions are concerned, perhaps we need to make an assessment which is of limited merit, as I said, to these questions, and then methodical. The first assessment of merit: there is - and this is my statement - a constitutional standard (Article 52 of our Constitution) and there is also legislation linked to the ordinary law of article 4, paragraph 3 of the single text on immigration, which regulates the entry into our country of citizens of other States. It is not possible for a rule of law to allow indiscriminate access to its territory of citizens from other States. This is peaceful and it is therefore peaceful that anyone, starting from the Minister of the Interior until the last of the public officers in service in our country, has a precise not only right, but I would say duty to enforce the law and to demand compliance with the regulatory provisions that provide that entry into our country must take place under certain circumstances and according to certain conditions. On the substance, therefore, there was definitely an interest, which is to be evaluated as a public, on the contrary I would say a duty that the Minister had to exclude foreign citizens who did not have the right to enter our country. In the method, however, we must also consider whether this exclusion has been balanced by circumstances and this leads me to denounce a misunderstanding that has been widely spread for years, because friends and colleagues, the concept of rescue at sea is legally very different from that of perennial asylum in our country, perpetual and indiscriminate. If I meet a wounded man on the street, I have a legal obligation to help him, not to adopt him. On this confusion of concepts has been inserted the work of the traffickers of human beings, who over the years have built a well-tested system that forced our country to misunderstanding between these two concepts and therefore to welcome people indiscriminately. What was this system? I would like each one of you to have had the opportunity to read those four card faldons, because from those four faldons it emerges clearly this tried system, that now finally has been disarticulated, so these people were loaded on unsure boats that no authority in charge of the control of navigation would ever authorize to use in the sea, were brought in the middle of the Mediterranean with a precise route on Malta, were received in front of the Maltese waters by two motorboats and a plane of the Coast Guard, who was careful to give them the new route to Lampedusa (it was a precise route to the millimeter, to the nautical grade) and when they arrived near the territorial waters, these boats immediately removed the cap and declared the emergency so that they could be rescued. With the emergency, then, they were landed and as soon as they landed, of course, these people fled. This type of operation forced the Italian State to be with its back to the wall, i.e. to choose between the shipwreck and the loss of human lives at sea and indiscriminate access to our country. This system has been disarticulated by a precise policy which, without making a single death, rather saving human lives - I am talking about the decision taken by the Minister - has allowed us to distinguish the two stages and this not because there is a political will of who knows what character, but simply because it is the same international conventions that I have heard quoted in this House in support of the the thesis of those who would like Mr Salvini at trial, who expressly declare when the SAR and SOLAS Conventions do not apply. I read the text because we must remain in a strictly legal area: The issues other than rescue related to asylum seekers, refugees and the status of migrants are beyond the mandate of the International Conventions and beyond the purposes of the SOLAS and SAR Conventions. In other words, what is the duty of the Minister of the Interior? Saving human lives and it has been done, because the place of safety does not mean safe place, as someone has said; it does not even mean safe port; it means place where people are safe. Always the same conventions that are assumed have been violated by the Minister (resolution MSC 167(78), paragraph 6.14) say verbatim that the place of safety can be either the earth or even on board a rescue unit, which was exactly the ship Diciotti. I read: may be aboard a rescue unit. The migrants who, despite them, were on board the ship Diciotti were already safe and their lives were rescued, they were secured, they were guaranteed medical care, psychological assistance, there were on board cultural mediators and they were refreshed and followed in everything. Therefore, on the one hand we have the legal interest that the Italian State has to allow only people who can do so to enter the country, and this, forgive me, but I believe that we all have to agree that it is certainly a public interest; on the other hand, we cannot afford to lose lives at sea. But the question is: do you lose more lives at sea by authorizing and closing your eyes on these anti-human ways, used for years by traffickers of human beings who, counting on the emergency, were trying in that way to make their paying load land, even at the price of people who have sunk in the Mediterranean, or pay more, precisely in terms of safeguarding the dignity of the person and of human lives, the fact that we will make it clear from the beginning that we will help anyone (as opposed to what Malta does) and will not accompany anyone in territorial waters of whoever without having first guaranteed life and safety? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] But then we will also ensure that the laws of our state are respected. Ladies and gentlemen, the file is littered with formal acts of our Government, which have tried, I would say, to deal with the crisis. There is a letter from the President of the Count Council dated July 14, which alarms Europe supporting the impossibility for Italy to continue to accept this smuggling of migrants; there is a note in the minutes of August 19 that, precisely in relation to the ship Diciotti, asks that Europe be involved in the affair and that it gives place to the redistribution of migrants; there is a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of August 21, that asks again a meeting; there is a preparatory meeting of August 23, always of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; there is a meeting for the relocation of August 24, the day before the disembarkation. All this in the most complete shipwreck - this yes - of a Europe that has disappeared from the horizon, leaving Italy alone, except then - I ask you one more minute, President, because I am the only one who intervenes today for our party - suddenly reappear on 6 September, with a note that I put to the attention of this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I read: "We have been very clear in recent months in pointing out that, of course, when necessary, detention can be used to facilitate the identification of migrants and to prevent them from disappearing even during asylum procedures. We have asked all Member States, including Italy, to provide adequate reception centres for this purpose, including detention. Thus Tove Ernst, spokesman for the European Commission for Migration. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). What's that got to do with anything? PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). But how? Cornuets and mischiefs: first they disappear, when migrants are to be relocated; then when we take them in charge, they complain because we did not hold them and they obviously left in Europe. This is the situation faced by Mr Salvini. I am convinced - and I believe I have demonstrated this widely - that the Minister's task was exactly what was carried out: in the pre-eminent public interest and in the exercise of the functions of Government, to ensure compliance with article 4, paragraph 3, of the single text of immigration and to guarantee respect for a political line agreed with the Government, decided with the Italians, voted by the Italians, established by the Italians as a line to address the issues of immigration. It remains in the background - I have concluded, Mr President, and I thank you for the extra time you have given me - a question. Today we are here with a Minister - indeed, an entire Government - on the bench of defendants, under trial for having applied Italian legislation. One wonders why there are not other ministers of previous governments who, on the other hand, have in fact disapplied the single text on immigration and allowed that mass deportation which could perhaps have been avoided already a few years ago, as we have shown to be possible today. Maybe they should go on trial. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u103	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can anyone in Italy today put the law on top of it? That is the question that we are called upon to answer in this House with tomorrow's vote: a vote that does not only concern the judicial destiny of the individual Minister, but also pertains to the same legal system as the country. In fact, voting against the authorization to proceed against Minister Salvini means in fact saying: yes, in Italy today there is someone who can insinuate the law and this someone sits in the ranks of the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Tomorrow's vote will be a watershed vote, which risks marking the passage between being a rule of law, in which everyone (including Government) is called to respect the law and become a country in which someone may feel authorized... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Garavini, I'm sorry to interrupt, but there's a buzz. Colleagues the discussion is continuing. Anyone who wants to leave the Chamber should do so, please, in silence. I also ask my colleagues to leave the cabinet, even if we all express solidarity with the Undersecretary Candiani. Please, Senator Garavini. Garavini (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that this is a watershed vote by which we come to decide whether we remain a rule of law in which we are all called to respect the law, or whether instead we want to become a country in which someone considers himself authorized to violate the laws, perhaps claiming to be legitimized by the popular vote. That is why, Mr President, I join my fellow Members from my previous group and the minority rapporteurs in asking clearly and clearly that Mr Salvini should not be inappropriately shielded by parliamentary immunity and subject himself to trial. This, Mr President, is not just any trial: Minister Salvini is being called into question by the Court of Ministers of Catania, which is the constitutionally responsible body to monitor any crimes committed by the Government. The request that we have received is an expression of that system of weights and counterweights that our country has constitutionally endowed itself with, precisely as a guarantee of the democratic exercise of powers, because nobody is obliged to abuse their role, not even the Government and less than a single Minister. So, it's not a whim or a splash of the one or the other magistrate. The Court of Catania is doing nothing but its duty: to verify in the course of the trial, as provided for in the Constitution of our country, whether or not the Minister of the Interior has abused his role in the exercise of his duties. In fact, the minister Salvini first prevented an Italian military ship - it has done well the rapporteur De Falco to detect of what type of ship it is - from landing in an Italian port. In addition, this would not have been the responsibility of the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport either. Mr Salvini, insofar as he was forcing the ship to stay off Lampedusa, was forced to retain 177 people on board, carrying out a real kidnapping. This is not because these people were putting the security of the country at risk, but because the Minister, as he himself said in those days in a whole series of interventions on the media and social networks, did so in order to make political leverage and essentially to threaten and put pressure on other Community countries, to force them or to induce them to take charge of these 177 migrants. It is clear that it is not our job to replace the judges and venture to make judgments: this is the competence of the judiciary. It is, however, our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that this process is maintained. It is precisely the duty of this House to ensure that whether Mr Salvini is innocent or not is established in the appropriate forum, which is that of the trial. Among other things, Parliament's permission to proceed could only be denied if the Minister had acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant State interest, or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest, which the Minister, within the defensive memory presented, claims to have done. The judges who have sent us their request, however, make opportunely point out that in this case Minister Salvini cannot invoke the defence of the security of the State, just because on the ship Diciotti there were no subjects that represented a danger to the State, but normal refugees, most of whom have the right to international protection, because they came from Eritrea. Do this blessed trial: what fear is there? If the majority is convinced - as I imagine and as the speakers from the previous majority attest - that Mr Salvini is innocent, let us proceed in the process, without preventing this from happening. Mr President, there is obviously another concern. Here there is awareness in the majority of colleagues and unfortunately also in those of Forza Italia and other political forces, which are flanked by the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, that if Minister Salvini actually went to trial, there would be a guilt, whose automatic effect would be the fall of the Government. In short, if there were the trial, colleagues who now claim that they do not want to grant permission to proceed would simply go home, there would be the fall of the government and the legislature would be over. That is why we do not want to give permission to proceed. Mr President, the unfortunate thing is that those who hide behind parliamentary immunity are the same political forces who have demonized parliamentary immunity for years, even theorized its elimination and, above all, allowed themselves to insult and sully those who, such as the Democratic Party, with wise choices sometimes voted to deny permission to proceed. However, we have always done so with good reason, because we believe that parliamentary immunity is an important instrument in the protection of democracy. Similarly, in this case we say that it is absolutely important for this process to take place. Suddenly, those same political forces that for years denied and demonized parliamentary immunity now completely deny their statements. That's because, as I said before, it's LaPalissian that the government would fall compared to a conviction. This is even more embarrassing for our five-star colleagues, Mr President, because they do not even have the courage to put their faces on it. They basically invented an escamotage to admit that they had changed their mind: they don't even want to admit it, so they invented this totally nebulous consultation on a non-transparent platform, a real stage stage built to create a scapegoat to which they attributed the responsibility of being turncoats; all to pretend not to deny what they have always filled their mouths with. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, as President Gasparri well knows because he was already a leader in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity in the previous legislature and he is an authoritative member of the Junta also in this, in all the votes in the various decisions of the Junta many of these colleagues have always recited the part of the forkmen, of those who called for handcuffs and even the gallows for some parliamentarians in turn. They are the ones who always shouted: "Honestness, honesty!" They have now lost their word, because in the meantime, out of interest, they bow to any dishonesty; moreover, those who said they wanted to open Parliament as if it were a can of tuna, now they have bent and are becoming the shoeshoe of their government allies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today to decide which country we want to be and which country we do not want to become. What happened with the Diciotti case offered an unworthy spectacle of our country to the eyes of the world. I understand that the majority does not want to return to their choice, but obviously wants to defend Mr Salvini from the trial and not in the trial and even pushes to the threats. There are political forces that push to threaten their components if they do not land on this pseudovote expressed precisely by the platform Rousseau. This is very serious. As the rapporteur, Mr De Falco, said, what is being done to Members is serious. I hope that we can rethink each other again and I also appeal, like our President, Mr Marcucci, for some Members to reconsider their decision. Mr President, we probably will not know whether the judges would have decided to absolve or condemn Mr Salvini, but it is certain that if this House tomorrow claims to entrench him under parliamentary immunity, it will mean to endorse the principle that the powerful on duty will feel that he can do what he wants and this is a serious injury to our country and to democracy. I hope that does not happen, but if it does, it would be very serious. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Grasso and De Falco. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u105	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u106	Mr President, I will be back in plenty of time in the ten minutes that have been allocated to me and I will try at the same time to follow the trail that President Gasparri and before him the Constitutional Court from 2012 to a few months ago have suggested: to stand on the subject carefully, not to wander over the policy of migrants, Salvini here, the Minister there, the President Conte somewhere else. The subject has been dealt with in a number of quarters, but the question mainly follows a response to the content of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. There's the point and there the donkey falls. A naturally antithetical vision has already been dubbed, so much so that we have two minority reports and a majority report on the assessment of the pre-eminent public interest and, of course, the constitutionally relevant act. If this is what we have read, my opinion is, of course, that there are very good grounds for believing that the two minority relations are absolutely excellent in supporting the view that the authorization to proceed concerning the Vice-President of the Council can be legitimately and consistently conferred and granted. The weakness of Minister Salvini's defence, which he has repeated several times over time, is as follows: Salvini argues that the choice made in implementing the policy is in itself an expression of a public interest to protect national security. There is no memory of a consideration of this nature: not only does there exist no memory, as is evident, in minority relations, but I also find very weak the opposite memory present in President Gasparri's report, and this is because it is not written anywhere that political motivation takes on importance in Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. What is certain, however, and it is absolutely unequivocal, is that the constitutional guarantees protect the freedoms and safety of people against the abuses of governments. Political will, neither at this time nor at any other time, can run counter to the Charter and the international treaties and the political direction - it is clear - must be governed by the principle of legality, having in the Charter and respecting the inviolable rights its natural counterweight. Those who cited the habeas corpus did so legitimately, recalling the mother of a history of the right that over time, over the centuries, we have made yours, starting from the municipal Statutes of many Italian cities in the medieval period. There is, however, a political point that supports, indeed, it must necessarily support the thesis provided for in the majority report and it is the justification of the behavior of a part of the majority, the one that belongs to the Movimento 5 Stars, which revolved completely not in relation to the position held in the previous legislature, but to the one provided for in the founding act of the Movimento 5 Stars. Not that I share it, but there is no doubt that in the founding act lies the soul of the Movimento 5 Stars, forced to rotate to defend the Vice President of the Council. For this reason we needed, citing and organizing a certain interpretation of the law, plausible arguments, starting with the literal invention of collegial responsibility. I have listened to the series of meetings mentioned by Senator Pillon, as I recall seven, but unfortunately none of the meetings mentioned was followed by a measure by the Council of Ministers. It would have been better to have a single meeting, perhaps of the Council of Ministers, in which to support the argument put forward by a single Minister, who is also the Vice-President of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I also recall a few tweets on the network - but these do not belong to the administrative act on which the Council of Ministers is moving - which are in clear contradiction to the position taken by the vice-president of the Council, Matteo Salvini. Therefore I do not understand the difference between the chirping of Minister Toninelli or Vice President Di Maio, whom I have sent to memory, and meetings on meetings or statements on statements, with neither of the two positions supported, however, by an administrative act, by a collegial measure such as to make the act of a minister consider reckless as the act of an entire Government. That act does not exist; if there is, it must be brought out. That the Diciotti affair has taken on a prominently political importance is a fact, and as such we consider it. It is a fact that two positions have been overturned: that of Minister Salvini, first inclined to be judged and, subsequently, with a clear example of chameleonism, I am inclined, instead, to be protected by the Assembly. The real point, however, is to have denied, by the Movimento 5 Stars, a substantial part of their soul about the judgment on immunity. I also have a possible string of quotes and, if requested, I hand them over to the record for reasons of time. Opposing permission to proceed is a dry reversal of your position over the years. It has been said, President Conte has also done so, in this case as a jurist, and I am concerned about it, that the person who brings up immunity does not know what he is talking about. But he knew what his teacher was talking about. And since the generation of myself and of President Conte is the same, we have formed ourselves, albeit in different faculties, on the same text, which is that of Constantine Dead. Constantine Mortati included in Article 96 of the Charter everything relating to political justice. And Article 96 of the Constitution is the article that is a pendant to the discussion in which we are now fixed. The case we are examining today, Mr President, is a classic model studied by the science of politics. It is the problem that arises to populist movements when they go to the government. In fact, it is one thing to promote permanent electoral campaigns on the basis of effective slogans, another thing is to assume institutional responsibilities and, to do so, to move within the constitutional framework. It can happen, as in this case, that a short circuit has also hit it; that behaviors from the opposition are once denied to the government; that Mr Di Maio must perform in acrobatics as a funamble. Of course it can happen. However, if one renounces the founding principles of his own history, if one contradicts one of the flag ideals, history always takes revenge. And, before history, the voters definitely avenge themselves. Today we must record, however, a new fact. In this Parliament there are two types of different majority: a large majority, based on Article 96 of the Constitution, and a majority based on Article 94 of the Constitution. I'm done. I have read the papers several times, to ask myself if my guarantee would conflict with the vote in favour of granting permission to proceed. The answer was not easy, but there was no conflict. And there is no conflict because individual freedoms, the safety of people, fundamental rights prevent, that is, come first. Moreover, since this is a time when 19-year-oldism is rampant, we cannot, when 19-year-olds are rampant, make civil rights pig meat. You can't waver. In fact, I am surprised that the liberal soul of Forza Italia has not rebelled. I turn to Senator Perosinus, who quoted Pope Ratzinger of Regensburg and the dialogue between Manuel II Paleologist and the Persian scholar. Instead, I suggest to Senator Perosino to read Pope Wojtyla who accepted, as an evolution of science and rights, such Darwin and Darwinism, that Pope Ratzinger, of course, in Regensburg denied and forgot. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u107	She is registered to speak Senator Bellanova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u108	Mr President, the Minister, who is not here on 16 March in Basilicata, said: For the umpteenth time, on Diciotti I will head high in the Senate. They're doing what they think they're doing. If they try me, I'll be proud. The same display of strength has been replicated over and over again in recent months, carefully orchestrated by a communication group that the Minister proudly defines as the beast. The question of the Public Prosecutor of Catania - of this we are discussing today - is simple: on what happened in August last off our coast, there are or not the extremes for a crime that has nothing to do with national security, carried out with total contempt of any institutional practice and without any collegiality, as evidenced by the documents analyzed by the Giunta for the authorization to proceed? Minister - who is not here - did you or did you not decide to hold 177 people, immigrants, yes, people hostage? [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is for a calculation which does not concern national security at all but its political fortunes. It has since become a practice, I should say aberrant, of this Government: to orchestrate in art on any serious issue only of can-can media, subtracting its role from politics and parliamentary classrooms, making it any exclusive subject of negotiation and sale for the use and consumption of the two government contractors. The vulgar exchange is: no trial in Salvini, no distrust in Toninelli. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Dear Minister who is not there, you will probably not go to trial and not because what you have done coincides with the supreme national interest. You won't go there because you did everything you could not to go there, because your government allies, once champions of justice, have become happily your accomplices. [[Applause from the PD Group]] While they still pretend, as beautiful souls, to be different in a shameful game of the parties, they cannot deny it except by disguising themselves and this Government. They will save you from the trial but not from the political judgment, a judgment for us indisputable. We must remind you of what was said live on Facebook on January 24 commenting on the request of the judges; what the Minister Luigi Di Maio repeated on January 27 when he said: "We will vote yes to the authorization to proceed for Salvini, he wants it too." And again: "Salvini said "I want to be tried," so the Movimento 5 Stars will not make him a spite and will vote yes to the request for authorization to proceed. And at the trial I'll be the first to say it was a government decision. Apparently there will be no need for such courage, relax. Therefore, the Minister will be saved from the trial, as already anticipated by the decision of the Council for Authorisations to proceed. It will be saved by its allies of government who in turn, in order to save their face, have performed the play of a fake online consultation and we will listen to the voice of willing parliamentarians, perhaps because the House is empty, completely bent on exclusive logic of power, the justifications that follow. Exactly what the President, Count, has written on the memoirs, and that we have heard from ministers such as Toninelli, Bonafede and Di Maio, that is, that a decision made in total self-referentiality and abusing his role, contrary to precise national and international norms, assumed in the name and on behalf of a State that you consider in the image and likeness of a political movement that on the resentment and fear of the different has made its electoral fortune, has been taken collegially or better is collegial in that it responds to a political line indicated in the contract and therefore you are not prosecutable because it has defended the superior national interest. Mr Bonifazi has already clarified precisely and punctually in the Junta the reasons why the Democratic Party voted yes to the authorisation to proceed: we have not changed our mind for two reasons. We refuse to think that the national interest could reside - then, as now - in keeping secreted at sea for five days 177 people, who had crossed the desert for months and months and stayed in Libyan prisons, including 29 unaccompanied minors, five men suffering from scabies, other tuberculosis or pneumonia patients and 11 women raped - yes, raped - in Libyan lagers, while the Foreign Minister of the Government of Libyan National Agreement stated that Libya would in no way accept the repatriation of illegal migrants to the countries of North Africa from which they had come. Colleagues, will the national interest of this House and this majority in government coincide with the crime of humanity? Ask yourself this question tomorrow when you vote. In those days, the Minister established a completely informal command and control practice, which exorbitates from what can and cannot be done, affirmed and decided. The ban on disembarkation has not resulted in official acts, but in a very dangerous suspension of the law in compliance with national and international laws, while the Minister has held in hostage 177 unfortunate, the law, the norms, the international conventions, the code of navigation, the Italian Government and Parliament, as well as the politics. 21.27 (Follow BELLANOVA). He suspended the right and humanity, reducing what should be the immigration policy of a government to a miserable game of force relationships, and this on the skin of men, women and children who could only wait and pray to survive and not die. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And I come to the second consideration: in a constitutional and democratic system must there be a limit to political action, to guarantee democracy and the inviolability of fundamental rights? Having been voted by the people, as he says, puts it above the law and allows it to play with human life? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] To justify yourself, you automatically assimilated the lives of refugees to terrorists: another lie, but that life could not and should not be seized and put at risk. She said several times that the wrap had ended, referring to people for whom the wrap never began; so saying, she legitimized aberrant behaviors, whose gravity is before everyone's eyes and is fed by his beast. It is a responsibility, his, inemissable and unforgivable. Immigration - which we will not govern, until we take full account of all its implications and we will not be able to re-examine trade relations - is not a matter of public order (the same public order that you have already seriously put into crisis by closing the SPRARs); it is a great political issue and, as such, we must be able to face it, discuss it and govern it. [[Call the president back.]] I would ask you for two more seconds, Mr President. And if it is clear that we cannot accept them all, it is equally so as everyone should be able to find a welcome in Italy and Europe, facing here, with as much seriousness and political and human responsibility, the lack of effectiveness, if not failure, of a reading of the things that identifies the key solution in the external frontier and rejections.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u109	Conclude, Senator Bellanova.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u110	BELLANOVA (PD). Wait a minute, Mr. President. I want to say this to this semi-empty Chamber: I, Senator Bellanova, do not feel less guilty if people die two meters from Lampedusa or in the Libyan lagers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And I certainly feel more guilty thinking that we're paying Libyan jailers... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Bellanova's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u111	I understand, Senator Bellanova, but I've already called you back several times: we'll give you a few more seconds, then, after your intervention, we'll agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u112	BELLANOVA (PD). Minister, we do not absolve you and we will not give you in this House the safe conduct for you to escape a fair and proper trial. You, Minister, walk around wearing inappropriately the uniform of brave men and women, servants of the State. Put it away. In the face of responsibility you take care of the countryside and show the courage of Don Abbondio. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u113	I remember, especially to those who have written texts, that can be delivered quietly. I understand who has to make an oral speech, but for those who have written texts, our Rules of Procedure allow them to be delivered entirely. I say that after I've also notified the PD's parent company. There's nothing wrong with that. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u114	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I had the honour of being a member of the Junta and, therefore, I have seen all the work and I would like to thank the President of the Junta, as well as the rapporteur, for I have discovered with great pleasure that Maurizio Gasparri is a person who has the deep sense of the institutions. You can either share what you say or what you think, but you have conducted the work with a great balance that I believe should be recognized. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Among other things, I would also like to express my solidarity with him, as we have already done for Senator Candiani, because today he has also received threats and insults via the web and so I think it is necessary. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I won't stay long, because I think the heart gave it to us by the court when it filed a request for permission to proceed. What do you mean? In the sense that, with great simplicity - we are used to seeing the conclusions to understand where we want to go - the court of Ministers, when it made the request, clearly said on page 48 (go see it) that it left the assessment of the political reasons of Salvini's conduct to the House of belonging and, therefore, also the assessment of the existence of a pre-eminent public interest. What does this mean? That I question myself and that I do not think otherwise, that is, I do not question whether there is a seizure or not or whether there is a crime or not; I wonder whether there are political reasons or not. Technically, I say there are, because there is a letter from Prime Minister Conte and another letter - to which I will return - from Toninelli and Di Maio, but the real political reason lies in the electoral program. Minister Salvini was elected in a coalition, for single-member colleges and proportional shares, whose electoral programme, democratically voted by the country by majority, because the majority expressed this, was very clear about the blocking of landings and the fact that an expulsion had to begin. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] So there are political reasons that we cannot leave in the hands of the judiciary political reasons. It is absurd to say that a minister must defend political reasons in the process: this is dangerous, because political reasons judge them by majority the democratically elected members of the House of Membership. There is another political reason, which is history. I recalled it briefly during the work of the Junta and I would also like to remind you here. Why did Salvini, from a political point of view, do what he did? Because it wasn't the first time that the center-right was faced with the issue of blocking landings. Mr Salvini, attention, is not the only precedent. This is the context, because since 2006 we have been investigating centre-right ministers for the issue of landings. Minister Pisanu, Minister of the Interior of a centre-right Government, was investigated in 2006 for abuse and omission in acts of office, because some central-left MPs, in particular of Refoundation, had filed a series of complaints about the problem of the deprivation of personal freedom. The question was closed, but there is a fundamental difference: when that episode happened in Pisanu, the Government reacted in a choral way and there was no need for an online verification of what the members of the Rousseau platform thought. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The government of center-right beginning with Frattini, even White, rose in defense of the then Minister of Interior Pisanu. The other example is that of Maroni. We know very well that we also had the European Court of Human Rights which condemned us for rejections: but Maroni was clear in his defence and said that it was measures to combat immigration, for which even then a centre-right government had been voted. Then, to answer the Court of Ministers, I say to you that these political reasons are there and I find them more right because, if you go to see the acts, which are at the Junta, there is some suspicion to see some hairy exhibits. If you go to see the acts, you will find exhibits of strange associations, which already in November and December urged the prosecutor to intervene; even an ONLUS - something that really has bothered me - preconstituted the possibility of being a party to the trial against Salvini. In addition, also in November and December, therefore earlier, considering that the request for authorization to proceed was in January, you can also find about thirty names, assisted by a law firm, who asked for access to the documents, always because they wanted to have in hand elements in order to be able to attack the Minister. So, you have to tell me who has addressed a Napoli NPO against discrimination in order to ask for these acts, who has addressed these thirty worthy Eritrean citizens to organize themselves and do such an operation. So you understand that the defence of a policy in the trial I look at at at least with suspicion. Above all, I consider it inappropriate, because a minister acting in the performance of his duties - and he does so for political reasons - it is right that he should be judged politically by the Assembly of the House of Membership. I would also like to add: be careful to always say that it is appropriate for the judiciary to judge the work of a minister. The fundamental difference between a magistrate and the minister is that the latter - and that is why, for example, I do not feel part of a caste - goes home, because he is subject, like every person who does political activity, to electoral judgment. He's not immovable, he doesn't have a guaranteed career for 40 years after a contest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I rebel when I think about this concept of caste: we can go home tomorrow morning, while those magistrates who would hypothetically judge Salvini remain there for the next few years. Having said that, I will conclude, because I have finished my time, wanting to do, although I do not share anything, my political congratulations to Senator De Falco's minority report, which has been consistent with his views. Although I do not agree with the approach, I certainly understand your desire to have a minority relationship. Of course, I also understand the position of President Grasso, although it is a typical position - let me do so - as a prosecutor. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u115	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u116	Mr President, it was August 27 when the Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, claimed that he was ready to be tried on the case of the Diciotti ship: If the court says I have to be tried, I'll go before the magistrates and explain that I'm not a kidnapper. I really want to see how this ends, so the Vice President of the Council said. Then when the court of ministers asked the Senate for permission to proceed, Salvini briefly changed his mind and in the letter he sent to the Corriere della Sera on 29 January last, the Interior Minister said: After long reflection on the whole matter, I believe that permission to proceed should be denied, explaining that it does not have to do with my person (if not). First of all, the fight against illegal immigration corresponds to a pre-eminent public interest, confusing regulatory content and political objectives, which are two deeply different issues, so much so that Minister Salvini, in justifying his change of position explains that the judicial affair is closely linked to the activity of Minister of the Interior and the firm will to maintain the commitments of the electoral campaign, which however cannot be distant or divergent from what the laws say. The Vice Premier is justified in stating that the Court of Ministers of Catania accuses him of a behaviour that he could not have committed as a private citizen or as a party leader, and that the judges in fact accuse him of having violated the law by imposing the stop at the landing by virtue of his role as Minister of the Interior. And Minister Salvini, self-fulfilling himself, states that this is a decision that would never have been possible if he had not been responsible for the Viminal. But being in government doesn't mean you're above the law. The rule of law exists to limit the tyranny of those who govern: where else would the difference between the rule of law and the absolute state lie? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, Minister Salvini wanted to be tried and told the judges his truth; initially, with the use of video proclamations on social media, the Vice Premier was convinced that he should not have to ask that the Senate reject any authorization to proceed on the Diciotti case. So at first he said he wanted to do Matteo Salvini and his traveling companions, of the Movimento 5 Stars, went after him, happy to hear him say these words. Senator Fattori: "We have to say yes to the authorization to be consistent with our principles" (and maybe it will be the only one of the Movimento 5 Stars who will eventually vote for it); the president of the Committee on Culture of the Luigi Gallo Chamber: "Salvini must be tried because the law is the same for all"; the former president of the Commission on Justice of the Giulia Sarti Chamber: "Our position on the permissions to proceed I think she is well known; Minister Lezzi: "Ok to trial Salvini, he himself wants it"; Vice Prime Minister Di Maio: "Salvini said "I want to be tried" and therefore the Movimento 5 Stars will not make him a spite and will vote yes to the request for authorization to proceed" and finally the Giromondo Di Battista: "Salvini renounces immunity". These are all statements of 27 and 28 January. Then, having done what he normally never does and that is to deepen the papers, Salvini discovers that probably if he went before the judges something would risk really and so changes notice and puts black on white that demands the full support of all the majority in order not to be tried. Pursuant to Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, as has already been said several times, the Senate denies the authorization where it considers, with indispensable assessment, that the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. The evaluation of the Senate that we are called to make is therefore bound to the determination of two requirements (each of which in itself is sufficient to deny the authorization): the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State and the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest. The Junta before, and the House today, are called upon to judge the actions of a minister, who, as has already been said, cannot be above the law. And if today we are called to verify the existence of a constitutionally relevant State interest or a prominent public interest, the question can only be answered in the papers that the Court of Ministers sent to the Senate and in the report that the Court of Ministers of Catania sent to the Senate on the Diciotti case reads: None of the subjects heard by this court reported (as was the case with other landings) information on the possible presence, among rescuers, of persons dangerous to security and national public order. In that passage the court thus argues that the landing of 177 migrants on board could not constitute a compelling problem of public order. The court writes it in the papers he sent us and we read it. Where, then, is the public interest that Salvini himself, in his letter to the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) recalls as a sufficient element not to grant the green light to the trial, self-fulfilling himself after having for months waved the opposite argument? Let's face it: all the action of the Minister moves out of propaganda. The same propaganda that is leading him to hide the landings not only to citizens and journalists, but also to the mayors, who are now almost unaware of the landings taking place on their shores, which continue to take place on their shores. He keeps being a strong man. Then, Minister who is not there, continue to be strong even in the face of the law. You shall submit yourself to the judges' judgment. Let's see if it is really stronger than the law, the same one that should protect the decisions of the mayors who find themselves having to manage the phenomenon of landings on their coasts every day without the right tools. And this is only because, for the propaganda interest of what he wants to appear as a strong man, sacred constitutional principles are being sacrificed for our order. Mr Salvini showed the House his real strength. You have the chance: show the whole country your courage and good faith. It is too easy to bully with the uniform of the Forces of Order and then flee before that same law that every day, fighting and risking their lives, those women and those men in uniform try to enforce. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A minister who runs away in front of the trials is not worthy of wearing a uniform. A minister who is convinced that he can judge his own actions, going even beyond the judgment of the judiciary, is not worthy of serving this State. It is not worthy to sit on these benches, and it is not here today to listen to this debate which concerns it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister Salvini has a great opportunity today. It demonstrates its strength, as well as every day the thousands of operators, who are forced to distangle themselves in the absurd norms that this majority has written. Women, men, volunteers, mayors, regional presidents, local administrators: for all of them there is no immunity, but they demonstrate day after day, despite Salvini, despite this Government, to be stronger than anything. But, ahinoi, I do not expect and we do not expect any positive signals in this direction. There is only incoherence, demonstrated by the physical absence of this evening. And the fundamental inconsistency of Minister Salvini and the 5 Star Movement in this affair is motivated exclusively by fear: the fear of being tried and of being condemned and, by the effect of the Severino law, decaying from office and the fear of seeing the government dissolve and the majority have to return home. But fear is never a good counselor. Napoleon Bonaparte argued that there are two ways to move men: interest and fear. In this story it seems that both Salvini and the Movimento 5 Stars have been inspired by this maximum. But Paolo Borsellino also taught us that fear is human and that we fight it with courage, what is lacking today is both the Minister to get tried, and the Movimento 5 Stars to be consistent with their principles. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u117	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u118	Mr President, thanks also to the President of the Council, who is present, and to the minority rapporteurs. I am speaking, convinced that there is the Minister somewhere; I am convinced that there is also because of the closeness that has been guaranteed during the work of the Junta, the closeness of colleagues who, I understand, will vote in a certain way and in a certain direction. I believe that this will happen because there is the presence of the Minister, even if we do not see her. What is today's call on this point? This has been explained by my previous colleagues with full arguments and arguments. Minister Salvini is subject to judicial review of the conduct carried out in his capacity as Minister of the Interior with regard to the transformation of a ship with a non-random designation. Let's reflect on this: the ship Diciotti, dedicated to Ubaldo Diciotti, is not just any ship and does not have any denomination. It is the dedication to a personality of the Italian public service, namely General Diciotti, who distinguished himself in 1941 for rescue operations at sea; this too must help to make clear what is the judgment that this House has to do when we are dealing with the subject we are dealing with. There is a Minister of the Republic who has put in place an extraordinary operation of political communication, but too expensive; expensive not only from the point of view of the fatigue that there is, that you touch with hand, in making acceptable the judgment that you have prefabricated, but also from the point of view of the rights that are suspending in terms of the culture of rights, the culture of rules and legality. I have heard some challenging arguments from colleagues, who did not believe in the reasoning they were making, arguing, for example, about that very high category that is the prevailing public interest: the order bends to make prevailing an established interest. On this aspect there is not only the right, which makes us read, but there is also the science of politics, the doctrine of the State, the political doctrines, everything he has written about fear Guglielmo Ferrero, who is the greatest scholar of fear inside and against democracies. What was the operation here? A political communication operation, which feeds on the written folders of the government program and which, however, for the fullness of its success, needed an operation - allow me, there is only one adjective - scandalistic, which would cause a break, even in the language of communication, in proceduralization. And we have succeeded, so much so that even an extraordinary organism, such as the Junta that presides Gasparri, had to find, with difficulty, a point of balance. Among what elements? That government program, that conduct and the sacrifice of really important interests, such as those related to the freedom of people. It cannot be imagined that the freedom of people to proceed, to move, to give rise to the realization of four lines of a government program, even for one day. Where is the proportionality of the Minister's conduct? Where is proportionality? Where are the balance and the composition between one thing and another? When we think of law, the example is very valid, as the magistrates present know (there is one who has a culture of law and institutions, which I do not see present) and the many lawyers esteemed in their liberal professions. I would like to take the example of a minister who has broken an institutional rule, in that case - yes - to assert a higher interest. I am referring to the then Minister of Civil Protection who, when he determined the controlled overflow to avoid the risk that the abundant waters could destroy Sondrio, occupied a plot of land of different private properties without activating the procedures. There was a violation of a rule, a rule, a guarded property, such as private property, to avoid a higher risk against people's lives. There was proportionality between a sacrificed good and the protection of a higher good. What is this about, if not the desire to overpower and prevail in terms of political communication? Dear Senators, we must know that we do not start political, legal and legal life today. The case law is not jus folly: there are cases, precedents and conducts. We can move forward, move sideways and go back. And since culture abounds here, in the sense of studies, even formal, especially on your part, see that even the debate between Creon and Antigone can help us: the law of man establishes that you must not bury your father, but Antigone said: there is a law of humanity that prevails and that makes me bury my father. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco]] There is a law of humanity, beyond the written text, which makes it necessary for citizens and people who seek help to be helped and rescued. There are international treaties, but they come - I would say - just after, because people's rights are pre-existing. In this House, the constituent Fathers have taught us this: the pre-existence of the fundamental rights of people, even in the face of state reasoning. We have had many Tuscans here, even in the past. Tuscany reminds me of Machiavelli and the reason of State, which at first was - first of all - the reason of the prince and not that of the order. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a cost that we pay: the injury remains. What happens next? Why are we careful not to break the institutional structure? For what can happen after, for irremediability. That is why we must use attention, insight and discernment. It happens in a sea that is not neutral, cold and frozen. The Mediterranean is the sea of proximity - we remember Braudel and also Matvejevic - that brings together, it is not the sea that creates conflict, but the composition. We're dispersing all this. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to take into account the cost of this operation, which you need, but which destroys. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u119	When the speeches are not written they can end in good time. I repeat that those who, on the other hand, have a written intervention that needs more time than the one granted can deliver it in order to be annexed to the Report. Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u120	Mr President, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that the debate has started almost two hours ago and despite the heartfelt request made by our leader, Senator Marcucci, Mr Salvini, we still cannot see him. I don't think he's afraid of the debate. I would therefore ask you to draw the Minister's attention, because it would be appropriate to speak in his presence, since he is the person directly concerned. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let me say a few things. Firstly, if it is true that the Senate is not called upon to decide on the innocence or guilt of the Minister, it is equally true that, as the debate has been conducted and all the ultronean arguments that have been used in this House, the issue essentially translates as follows: is it right or not that it is the natural judge who determines the innocence or guilt, in this case, of the inquisition? This choice is not legal, but it is valuable and cultural in any mature democracy. On the other hand, the second premise is a question: in a rule of law there are always legitimate political actions, which are legitimized by votes taken or electoral programmes, as we heard earlier, and which can therefore be removed from the judgment of the judiciary? I began my speech with a premise and a question to make clear what is the delicate context in which this debate is taking place, which is not that of the Constitutional Law of 1989: perhaps it was, but it is not. And precisely because of the distortions that have been included in this debate, these days and here, I would like to highlight the risks that the Italian Republic and democracy run, should the Senate decide not to proceed towards Minister Salvini. Let us see what they are (I say this honestly: I have taken inspiration from the various statements I have read in the newspapers and listened to them on television and have reflected on them). Firstly, the decision involves two distinct plans: that of the free determination of the political direction of governments and that of the rule of law, democratic and constitutional. The Constituents had made this point clear in an unequivocal manner: it is sufficient to read Article 96 of the Constitution, in so far as it expressly provides that the offences committed in the performance of the duties of the President of the Council of Ministers must be subject to ordinary justice. If that is true, how can anyone say that political action is free from judgment? I think in a convinced way no, as well as for all Italians, for whom, if they were to commit wrongdoing, there is the natural judge. Why shouldn't a minister be like that? We all know that the refusal to land has been made outside the Council of Ministers, that it has not been formalized and that it has been made with a statement, if I recall correctly, in the margins of a European summit. Soon after, President Conte and other ministers rushed, with letters and e-mails, in a bad way, trying to endorse a decision that they had never made. Article 95 of the Constitution provides for a collegiate responsibility for individual ministers only for acts decided on in the Council of Ministers and an individual responsibility for those of individual Dicasteries. If that is true, how is it true, can anyone say that any subsequent endorsement is enough - I even heard a colleague talking about a letter arrived later - to change the state of things? I don't think so and in a very convincing way. It is bizarre the justification of Minister Salvini, who justifies his refusal by recalling the rule that punishes the crime of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the State. Is this the case? It turns out to me that those 177 people were all controlled and all identifiable and would have been - as they were then - included in the reception program or even brought to other European countries, thus reducing the crime itself to which Salvini frowns. Therefore, although it is a constitutionally relevant obligation to protect the interests of the State, what catastrophic and imminent event was going to happen or would have happened at the time when those people, all identified, had landed immediately? No one. It is also a suggestive thesis that politics, in this case of immigration, as has been repeated in this Chamber even recently, must be decided by politics itself, by Parliament, by Ministers, by the Government and not by the magistrates. I think it is too easy and trivial to say that this is true, but said in a context of this nature, of an exclusively and eminently justifiable nature, it is nothing more than the perennial promulgation of an institutional model, which has equal only in dictatorships and in those places where the immunity of decisions is sacrosanct and inviolable. We are in another context, absolutely different. I go on always thinking about the statements that I had the chance to read in the newspapers. Persuasive is the justification that the public interest appears evident in the light of the acts subsequently brought before the European Court. It is a justification of the President of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. However, the question is whether the prohibition on landing, which with this argument is admitted (because it is said that it has served to convince Europe in a certain direction), becomes lawful if other countries, moreover not subject to any international obligation in this matter, do not agree with the political direction of the Government. I don't think so, and I say that in a very convincing way. A reflection must also be made on the message linked to this type of choice, i.e. the possible negative decision on the authorisation to proceed. It is clear that the choice of the Government in a different version would have had a serious impact on the Government of the country; so, if Minister Salvini were to escape the trial, what message would be sent to the Italians? What for power, to keep the seats to understand us, the politicians in office are ready to overcome everything, even the laws that they themselves vote and that at this point apply to others and not to them. I don't think it's worth it at all. I affirm a different, alternative, vision of institutional respect, testifying that in this country those who make politics are not all equal and not all behave in the same way. This vote will cause damage; in particular, in that band of abandonment it will confirm that politicians can do what they want. This is the worst message a ruling class could possibly give. In the event of denial of authorisation, the Senate will assume an important responsibility towards the rule of law, precisely because in this case, unlike the past, we wonder about the limits of political action and in particular we wonder whether the primary interest of the constitutional state could lead to the violation of fundamental obligations, such as those on the right of asylum and on the personal freedom of foreigners. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that after this decision there is a before and after. The next is the unsanitable overcoming of a democratic hinge that would open the doors to unexplored paths, with a good dose of social danger before even political. I wonder why we should dismantle our democracy, the Italian Republic, by insinuating criteria that do not exist in democracy. Therefore, for the reasons I have just said, I hope that the Senate will grant permission to proceed so that the minister in question is judged in the right classrooms, which are not this. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u121	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right that we should pay a great deal of attention to the choice that we must make. The accusation that the Court of Ministers has addressed to Minister Salvini on the Diciotti case is indeed serious and serious; it is therefore not possible to dismiss it or keep it solely on the level of the various or opposing political opinions. To kidnap women, men, minors, restricting personal freedom is a form of violence on the person who can on no occasion be justified or considered as an undesirable effect of a government's political choices. This is not acceptable. I would like to say at once that I do not belong to the political position that identifies Minister Salvini, or any other representative of the Government of the Italian Republic, as an enemy to be overthrown and on which to do cannibalism becero, with languages that feed hatred or delegitimation. Of course, I consider the policies of this Government and Minister Salvini, leader of the League, contrary to my principles, to what I think is useful for Italy, for its growth, for its well-being, for civil and democratic coexistence. But precisely for this reason I do not consider Salvini, I repeat, an enemy to be overthrown, but a political opponent yes, to be defeated politically but, first of all, in the country. I want to clear this debate from the tone of the political party confrontation that it has sometimes assumed. I do not, therefore, begrudge him and, from my point of view, if he chooses to go to trial (which, I fear, he is not choosing and which, unfortunately, he will not choose), I hope he can come out without judicial charges from this affair, because I would consider him a qualifying element of the democratic reputation of our country. It is important, however, that the Minister agrees to be judged as would any other Italian accused of kidnapping, as he himself had initially stated. The correct behavior, that is, is that of those who defend themselves in the trial and not from the trial. But why, Minister Salvini, have you changed your mind? You and all your majority in the government preferred, with the vote of this House, the refusal, the denial, to go to trial and, therefore, to be judged in their own seats. Are you so afraid of the merit of the charge that you are being raised? Or, along with this, do you want a safe conduct to continue, as was happening in these hours with the forty-nine migrants aboard the Italian ship Mare Ionio, in brutal attacks on the dignity and freedom of the person? Or, perhaps, even more generally, to attack the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms and norms, which, in my opinion, is the subject of merit to be discussed? It is not up to me, and it is not up to this House, to assess whether Minister Salvini has actually violated the law. The political judgment that, as a Democratic Party, we have given and give is very hard, very clear. I believe that the Minister has acted without humanity, playing with people's lives, blowing over the fear of immigration and the different, as unfortunately he does too often. And for what? For a few more percentage points of consent? Look, this is really dramatic. We'll never agree with Salvini on that. Never can human life, in a democratic system, be sacrificed on the altar of political choices, whatever they may be. And never can a government's political choices violate laws. So here's the thing: to distinguish politics and justice. Let me remind my colleague, Mr Modena, that he said that we are talking about politics and that politics cannot be entrusted to the courts. The point, then, is precisely this: to distinguish politics and justice, respecting, however, the spaces of each. We must distinguish the political conflict over a choice which, from its point of view, Salvini continues to defend and which we continue to oppose, from the criminal judgment on it. And only a court can decide this: if the decision not to dock the Diciotti, a ship of the Italian Republic, has been taken in violation of the laws and if, in fact, it has been a seizure. He cannot judge the Senate on this, not the media, not public opinion, not a parliamentary majority. Colleagues and colleagues, the vote we are calling tomorrow is this: to let things go according to what is right, to have the courts of Ministers carry out their work, or to bend national, constitutional and international rules and values shared to the pure interest in the survival of this Government and this majority. Because that is what it is, and you know it well, ladies and gentlemen of the League, the 5 Star Movement, the Forza Italia and all those who think they are voting no tomorrow. The Italians will watch us vote. We do not foster the idea of a policy that has more rights than ordinary people. We don't use double standards. We do not pass on the message that it is enough to be an exponent of the Government not to be subjected to the judgment of the judiciary. This is a very serious precedent. Minister Salvini, I ask you in your capacity as a young populist leader, Minister and father. But why not set a good example? Get yourself a trial. You respect the court and agree to be judged as a sure person of your actions, sure you didn't break the law. Simply this. I will continue to oppose, with determination and constancy, his political choices, to commit myself with all my strength to build an alternative to his Government in the country and then in the elections because I consider his Government harmful to the country, but look, Minister, I would be the first to congratulate you if you were acquitted having chosen to be judged in the only places that are ungrateful to the judgment of merit, the courts, as provided for in our Constitution, our rules, our laws. This is your responsibility, Mr Salvini, to the whole Government and to the senators and senators in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u123	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u124	Mr President, unlike my colleagues, whose political reasons I recognise and share when they address the Minister who is not here, I would like to address you and this House exclusively because I believe that there is a great misunderstanding at the root of this debate. A fault has been created between those who support the work of the Minister and those who oppose him, but that is not the point. The discussion is not about supporting the policies of the Government and Minister Salvini. The point is whether this Assembly, if the Senate of the Republic has decided to strip itself of a prerogative that the Constitution gives it or not. The debate we are having on the main public interest has been resolved today by the President-in-Office of the Council because he has not come to say that he will be present tomorrow to defend a public interest that we have protected until the end. No. He came to say that tomorrow he'll be here to put his face on it because that's the government's political line. We are therefore saying that the implementation of the government programme coincides with the interest of the Republic. Do you realize the principle that we are saying in this House? We are talking about the content of a government action that the judicial authority - and I am sorry for that - has brought near the wrongdoing and it is to be clarified whether the work of this Government is in the vicinity of the wrongdoing or is within the prerogatives of the law and the Constitution and cannot clarify this Assembly. This House must only decide where the overriding public interest lies. I completely disagree with what I have heard from Mr Modena: it does not coincide at all with the political line and with government action because otherwise tomorrow, if the justification is the implementation of the government line, there is no longer any criminal offence. Senator Pillon explained to us that since Salvini is in favour of rejections and the reduction of landings, he was right not to let the refugees off the Diciotti. So, since he is opposed to docking and favoring rejections, he could even take them down. Tomorrow, if Salvini or anyone in the government felt that there was sensitive information for national security, he could use the torture tool to collect that information because the national interest is at stake. But do we realize, Mr President, what is this House allowing for? I do not think it is true that President Grasso's report is a prosecutor's report, because it provides us with a work grid made up of punctual issues. I quote: In other words, in order for the Senate to legitimately reject the request for permission to proceed, it must be considered that the public interest that the Minister intends to defend actually exists in practice and is prominent in relation to the good protected by the norm and no one in this House has been able to describe where the public interest lies. It has only been said that we are opposed to the illegals or that the government contract is being implemented. Neither of these points belongs to the public interest. And if anyone in this House has a doubt - because it is not said that Senator Richetti's words correspond to truth: is it true, Mr President, what can happen? - can look up and read, behind the President's scranno, because the Republic has been proclaimed: not in defense of the coasts, but as a garrison of public freedom. To this a government looks: to the garrison of public freedoms, which are trampled on vice versa. No political majority of any color, neither today nor tomorrow, for the implementation of the government program can restrict the personal freedom of any individual: this is what we are talking about, not about sweatshirts, jackets or migrants, but the fact that a government can come before the constitutionally sanctioned freedom of each individual; that is the point. President Grasso's report also raises a point and a question, which is not as a prosecutor, but as a colleague who has investigated the question: what kind of discretion does Parliament have? There is a risk that, since the assessment to which Parliament is called is a "political" assessment, it may become an excuse to bring everything you want into this concept. But it is clear that if this is to implement the government programme, that is to say by majority, we are in fact scouting the Executive of a country, which, as a majority and implementer of the government programme, is now above the law from tomorrow. Then I do not address the Movimento 5 Stars and the friends and colleagues of the League, in relation to their statements and to what they have always said to understand, to want and to think: no, that is what newspapers and political controversy do. It is not the merit, on the contrary, that goes back a long time: I have had a full parliamentary term and - Mr Nencini is right - it has nothing to do with the authorization to proceed, because I remember that, when we were colleagues in the House, Mr Grillo - who has been a career today, so as Minister of Health - made a very heartfelt intervention - and I will spare you the reading - in which he said: with us never again any politicians over the law. That is, I do not believe that this is the issue, but that it is right that the bodies of this Senate and the Constitution and the Republic should see the constitutional guarantees and prerogatives guaranteed to all, including parliamentarians and senators. Here, however, there is a clear question, to which we do not want to answer, namely the fact that this hypothesis of crime, committed by a minister, clearly harms a constitutional principle: the judicial authority must go and check whether or not this crime has been committed, because today it is only a hypothesis. Tomorrow then the problem will not be to vote without a mandate, as the Constitution tells us, but to look up and understand what each of us in the Senate of the Republic and the founding reasons of this Republic are doing. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u125	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u126	Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Fedeli, said something that I very much agree with: we belong to that political culture for which the opponent fights with politics, not with other instruments; we would therefore like to fight Minister Salvini for the ideas he brings with the value and strength of ours. In the same style, we belong to that political culture that has great respect for the institutions, which also include the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity and the conduct of its work. President Gasparri, I think that the work of the Council, which you have presided over properly and thoroughly, has been offended. While you have made a report, which I do not agree with, but which is the result of study, in-depth study of documents and evaluations made on the basis of when it was offered to your members so that they can draw their conclusions seriously and thoroughly (the reason for which they are part), my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars decided not to participate in that work. The meetings you have convened and presided over were worthless. They relied not on what was in the documentation, which you were all obliged to keep in mind for your role and for the task you have because you are elected Members to do that work, but on the assessment expressed by citizens who, through a platform run by who knows who, said that this authorization should not be there. There has not been an evaluation of documents - I repeat that your report finds me in deep disagreement, but it is the result of a serious work that I want to recognize - but an evaluation of the web, born of a political choice and a political value. The Junta, therefore - I am sorry to say - has not been put in a position to do its job seriously or, better, these members have decided not to do it; they have decided to offend the institutions. They preferred to give up a role that was given to them by the citizens and, therefore, they also offended the Senate; they invalidated a serious job, but we try to continue to be serious people and we want to try to explain instead why we were motivated. The Junta first and then the Assembly are called to verify if there is one of the two extra-ordinam reasons, which here have been described well, provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 9 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, i.e. - it has been repeated several times and it is right to repeat - if the interested party has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. Once again in this House: the reflection we are called upon to make is not whether the Minister has committed a crime, but whether the hypothetical and not yet proven a crime is justifiable in the light of a constitutionally relevant interest in the State or of a prominent public interest. We are not judges here and none of us want to make judgments because we, unlike those who came out of that Junta by making us the sign of handcuffs, are not executed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President Gasparri, your report starts from shared premises. You said that the Junta is not called upon to discuss the political or administrative nature of an act, but then to reach conclusions that we cannot accept. The first weakness we want to highlight is the fact that the report sets itself in the affirmation of the existence of the pursuit of a governmental public interest. The law of reference, however, as we have tried to remember and as I try to repeat as a mantra, uses other words and other adjectives, precisely because the renunciation of judicial review can be implemented only in the name of interests such as to compensate this act extraordinam. It's not enough. In the report of President Gasparri, after having excluded the existence of a personal interest (for example, if there were the receipt of money for an act of office), this exclusion extends also to the party interest, as if the League had no party interest in the fight against immigration. It is its cornerstone: it does not want to solve the problem because without that problem it has no consent because it has built all its consent on the chaos created precisely by the problem of immigration. It is on this exclusion that the report incurs in what I consider to be a logical stumbling block: in order to cover and overcome the fault of this plant, however, it returns the real purpose of the Minister's conduct. What should we follow in this request? A simple question: is the fight against immigration a constitutionally relevant interest of the State or a pre-eminent public interest? The answer is also confused by the majority. The Rousseau platform said that, faced with this question, it did not give Bulgarian percentages, but rather mixed between them. And we know very well that the opinion on non-authorisation has certainly not taken place for such a considerable amount of votes. But if we go even further into this path, there is a further step to follow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go into the time frame. MALPEZZI (PD). I'll surprise you because I'm almost done. Has Minister Salvini's conduct been used to protect that alleged public interest? Was it only and exclusively with that conduct possible to protect that preeminent public interest by not being able to adopt any other behavior? It goes without saying that the conclusion is clear and in the eyes of all, because immigration has not been opposed by this course, and it has also been seen today. There are still ships that land; there are still ships in the middle of the sea, therefore that conduct did not contrast the phenomenon. They are paradoxes, I know, but these paradoxes serve to demonstrate that the conclusions presented by President Gasparri are not sufficiently motivated, because they do not complete the attempt of that sort of maquillage of that evident interest of the party of Salvini that is the preeminent public interest. This similitude is not there, the two things do not coincide. This, of course, does not mean that the Minister is responsible for kidnapping. This - and I repeat - does not mean that the Minister is responsible for the crime of kidnapping. None of us have to say it, accuse and know it. However, I would like to reiterate that the absence of this evidence within the terms set out in the law of reference cannot in any way allow the activation of a guarantee that is not reasonable. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u127	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u128	Mr President, Article 9 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989 has been said to give this House and the Senate a great responsibility today, because it is Article 9 that gives this House power to deny permission to proceed to Minister Salvini for what was a ministerial offence. But Article 9, in defining the objections, excuses, as it has already been represented, which undoubtedly create those spaces of political discretion that other colleagues have recalled, meets limits in the principles of national legal culture, laid down both by the internal law and by the rules of international conventions. It is precisely these principles that define the boundary of judgment to which this House will have to adhere. The judgment and these principles are put to the protection of a value system that fortunately creates a hierarchy of safeguards and guarantees of the fundamental freedoms of people. It is up to us today and tomorrow, therefore, to draw the boundaries of these assessments; a judgment, attention, to which we are called that it is so discretionary but it is indisputable. Let us remember, our judgment tomorrow will no longer be invoked by other powers and by other subjects. So we have a great responsibility. In the present case, the public interest indicated by Minister Salvini as justification for his conduct should have been regarded, in accordance with Article 9, as a constitutionally relevant or pre-eminent interest, as has already been observed. But compared to what? Compared to a threat, to a concrete risk in reference to the specific one of the deprivation of personal freedom of 177 people illegitimately detained for six days aboard a ship of the Italian Navy in the port of Catania. The Minister had to show that that prime interest could not be pursued in any other way; and it had to be shown that the conduct itself had not exceeded what was strictly necessary to achieve that same public interest. In this context, I do not agree with the view expressed by President Gasparri in his proposal that in theory there could never be a ministerial offence in relation to criminal cases which irreversibly affect fundamental rights. Paradoxically, it is not the reversibility of the crime, in fact, that qualifies it as a ministerial, because in theory it could also lead to the fulfilment of a serious crime, therefore to irreversibly harming rights, if there were a concrete and current threat of a supreme interest of the State such as public security or health, for example, of a community. There was therefore to be a situation of real danger of the integrity of the State, a concrete threat of the constitutional rights of citizens that the Minister could not argue. In this context, what we believe to be indisputable, on the contrary, is that it cannot be adopted in any way the objective of a political objective of government and the implementation of commitments of the majority contract, such as migration policies reduced to mere propaganda instruments, as a general criminal in criminal matters, as this thesis - it has been emphasized also by my colleagues - would lead the reason of government to always authorize violations of rights guaranteed by national and international law. The government's reasoning would thus be a real threat to the rule of law and our democracy. Mr President, in the memory deposited by the Minister of the Interior, there is no danger or threat to justify the compression of fundamental rights, let alone a threat to public security, given that no security protocol or public order has ever been activated. Without doubt, therefore, the limitation of personal freedom by an administrative act carried out by the Minister represents a very serious choice that is placed on a line of fracture compared to the general principle laid down by Article 13 of the Constitution, for which personal freedom is inviolable, therefore also the personal freedom of migrants and asylum seekers, and can be limited only by a provision of the judicial authority. We therefore believe that the restriction of the freedom of 177 people represents a precedent totally unacceptable to the principles of our democratic legal system based on law. We believe that authorisation should be granted and that the Minister has the right to defend himself in the trial, but not from the trial, even if the Minister does not seem to have the courage. Mr President, today we have a great responsibility which can set a precedent. Not granting authorization in the name of the government's reasoning means transforming ministerial immunity from the instrument of protection of its institutional functions to a privilege. You of citizenship, where one is worth one, are breaking a dangerous fracture, a further distance between those who rule and the people governed. You today, for a mere exchange between government counterparts, you who said to demolish the caste, are strengthening its defense and inviolability: be aware of it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u129	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u130	Mr President, today we are dealing with a subject which is a unique fact for republican history: the Court of Ministers has asked for permission to proceed for Minister Salvini by virtue of an assessment that concerns the aspect that distinguishes his activity as Minister, therefore with regard to the abuse of powers especially in the role of public officer. The 177 people deprived of freedom are the object of the abuse. The basic issue, however, is of a legal nature, as has been dealt with in a comprehensive manner in all the speeches and I would say very well in the minority reports presented by Senators Grasso and De Falco. I believe that the assessment must be made first of all on the subject of the limit which concerns the activity of an officer, of a minister in this case. We must think that also the guarantees that are functional to the security services meet limits, the absolute limit of the prohibition of crimes against the person in particular and therefore, even if in that case there are limits, we must reason that even the activities of a government and a minister in the management of migratory flows cannot lead to the violation of constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom. In fact, a comparison must be made, as has been well explained in many interventions, between the public purpose pursued and the sacrifice of the means. The Minister, in particular, evades jurisdiction only if the conduct of the same is aimed at protecting a constitutionally pre-eminent legal asset compared to the compressed one. The assessment of these double standards, this comparison is completely absent in the assessments which the President of the Council also made in his majority report. No political act can harm the subjective legal sphere of the individual, the inviolable right to personal freedom. Article 13 of the Constitution clearly explains that personal freedom is inviolable and that no form of detention, inspection or personal search is permitted except by act motivated by the judicial authority and in the only cases and methods provided for by law. It cannot be accepted that a minister can advance the supposed pursuit of a preeminent public interest in order to escape the principle of responsibility and the principle of legality, which are the cornerstones of the rule of law and there are no subjects who can derogate from the limits imposed by the constitutional order. Among other things, it is paradoxical, as some of my colleagues said earlier, that the pre-eminent public interest, which is a conceptually relevant and important value, is in fact to coincide with the interest of the majority coalition, with the interest represented by the government contract and it is incredible that we do not make an accurate assessment of this aspect. In fact, to interpret the concept of pre-eminent public interest, that is to say, to think that government action, precisely because it pursues a preeminent public interest, can derogate from certain principles and rules of law, leads us to a vision of the State that I believe is to be opposed; I refer to the absolute State, the State as an end, the sovereign State, the State that is subtracted from the law: this is the vision that is brought to our attention in some way. The state we think of is the rule of law, the state in which the protection of the person and his fundamental rights prevails. In my opinion, therefore, what we are called upon to vote is a vote which also concerns the vision we have of the State and if this aspect is not properly emphasized it will be even more serious the vote that we are going to exercise tomorrow. In those days a number of errors and major omissions have materialized and the sense of the rule of law has been lost: 177 people deprived of civil and political rights enshrined in the international conventions on asylum, on the lives of people. In those days there was a very cynical political negotiation between the Italian Government and the European Union, without room for diplomatic mediation that could have produced much more and much better and, above all, it was in that way to put pressure on the European Union on the issue of immigration policies, when instead we know that the only solution for the shared management of migration flows is the reform of the Dublin Regulation and not of the scenic activities useful only for propaganda and for the satisfaction of the followers and those who then on social media are ready to put a "I like" that costs nothing. It is clear, therefore, that these reflections have certainly remained in the margins of the decisions of the majority; a subaltern fidelity to an evil government contract prevailed rather than the constitutional principles that also pre-order our role as representatives of the institutions. Admit it without reluctance: to proceed with the denial of the authorization to proceed with Minister Salvini is nothing more than an exchange in terms of the survival of the Government. In my notes I wrote that there was an exchange between the no at the trial in Salvini and the "ni" at the TAV, because that was what it was about. Go on like this, for momentary agreements on issues that concern the activity of Government and you do it to the detriment of Italy. A country should be governed with clear decisions and not with a continuous exchange, which takes place between you who exercise alternately the function of minority and majority: one day a measure is supported that is more favorable to the League, and maybe there is the false contrast of the Movimento 5 Stars, the time after the Movimento 5 Stars has a measure to flag and the League makes a fake internal opposition. In doing so, you degrade the role of the institutions, placing the Government agreement before respect for the principles of legality and constitutionally guaranteed freedom. I address above all to the Movimento 5 stars, of which we do not know the thought on this subject, because I have not heard any of their speeches on this subject. I understand the embarrassment, but it takes respect for Parliament and I think it is right to give your point of view. How can you look at your story without being embarrassed? In 2014 Di Maio said that in Italy immunity has always been a shield for politics and never a guarantee. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Beppe Grillo spoke of clean Parliament as the point of arrival of every political commitment in our country. With a vow you will throw to the sea all your incessant call to honesty and legality. I appeal to Members' consciences to overcome uncritical membership of a government agreement, because of the supreme institutional function that must push us to respect the laws and the protection of individual freedoms provided for by them. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u131	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened last August and what was happening in these hours opens a deep wound in the heart of the sacred and very high values laid at the foundation of our country and our community. Even before the violation of international laws and conventions, the grave desecration of those universal principles which affirm, above all state reasons, the defence of the fundamental rights of all human beings is dismayed. An outrage before which one cannot remain silent. (For the sake of my people I will not be silent, for the sake of our people we will not be silent, we are moved by the words of Isaiah; by the people who put the dignity and freedom of people at the centre). A betrayal of the principle of equality and equal dignity of all men, of respect and love for neighbour, of the practice of solidarity: values to which our Constitution is inspired and which must always illuminate the action of our country's institutions. The case of the ship Diciotti recalls a great ethical and moral dilemma that pertains to everyone's conscience: preventing the landing of 177 human beings, including 29 girls and children, and leaving them at sea for days and days to use them as leverage in negotiations with other European countries is an act that transcends all legal, political and pure humanity reasoning, that does not represent us and that denies the history, the spirit and the decorum of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those dramatic days were the emblem of an overturned use of force, exercised only against the weakest and never in the proper fora; of those who realize their power to violate without any justification the laws of the State and the fundamental freedoms that our Constitution recognizes to all indiscriminately; of those who take refuge behind the pretext of public order to feed the machine of propaganda. Mr President, I have the honour and the burden of sitting in the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and, in the light of these events, I wonder: what institutional credibility can this Commission have if a member of the Government treats human rights as an exchange commodity? What is the value of my role and of the senators and senators, who dedicate part of their experience and energy to such delicate and urgent issues to enter into the substance of the same in order to build and mark the line of common responsibility translating them into subsequent political choices, if then the Executive, through its acts, proves to be different and arbitrary in the decisions, thus emptying the principle of political reciprocity and broadening the boundaries of government action far beyond the institutional coordinates? The story Diciotti will be long remembered as one of the darkest moments in our country's history, an episode that we hope will remain isolated. The second act of this drama could be staged in this House. To all of you - because it is already clear to us - the task of deciding whether a member of the Government may or may not be allowed to act by raising himself above the law, disaggregating himself from the duty to realize, in the concrete of every specific circumstance, the fruitful weight of moral principles. This would be a dangerous precedent for the compression of rights, which could be invoked in different but similar situations. It would constitute a serious wound to the rule of law of our democracy by explicitly affirming the power, in the hands of a minister, to derogate from the national and international laws to which we are all subjected, because that would mean surrendering to the fact that, even today, the most basic protections recognized to human beings as such and as persons can be trampled, overwhelming the freedom and dignity of individuals. And someone has yet to explain to us how 177 human beings can pose a danger to public safety if it is true that we have made ourselves - and must not remain merely a declaration of intent - that horizon which sees in the other and in the good of the person the destination of our commitment: I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink; I was a stranger and you housed me naked and you clothed me. It must explain to us why this treatment has been reserved for people on board the ship Diciotti, while in August 2018 other people landed in absolute media silence and in total safety. And what is due to the change of political posture in relation to the perspective of judgment, probably the result of successive political forcings, covered by an alleged reason of state, but - rather - having at the bottom the reason of government and the safeguard of political equilibrium? A Minister of the Republic cannot pursue partisan interests, transcending precise constitutional and supranational limits, trespassing on the arbitrary management and subversion of the fundamental values of our constitutional order. It is an intolerable scenario for a liberal democracy and for a civil state like ours. Here too, in the most authoritative place of confrontation, decisions and choices, we must not say the words that win, but the words that save. Here they must clearly define themselves as political conducts that have within the strength and the strenuous and tenacious beauty of this responsibility: a responsibility to be lived in the name of all humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u133	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u134	Mr President, we are called upon to take a decision of great importance, which has no precedent in the history of the Italian Parliament and which will take on a general legal and institutional significance, even before it is political. Mr President, the authorisation to proceed is a very serious offence, as many Members have mentioned: kidnapping of an aggravated person, provided for and punished by Article 605 of the Criminal Code. The Court of Catania asks Parliament, this House, for permission to prosecute the Minister of the Interior, who has been accused of having deprived of personal freedom, for six days, 177 persons, including some minors, in deliberate violation of national norms and international conventions, abusing his powers and with the addition of being a public officer in the performance of his duties. It's an unprecedented fact. In the democratic state and in law all are subject to the law and no one can derogate from the limits imposed by the constitutional order: it is a fundamental principle of democracies, including ours. According to the principle of responsibility, the person who plays a political role is responsible for the public functions he exercises both in politics, in the judicial and this principle of responsibility is connected and derives from the principles of equality and legality. Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, repeatedly recalled in this Chamber, provides that the competent Chamber may refuse authorization to proceed with a request for a ministerial offence, but only under precise conditions and in particular if it considers that the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. The ratio and purpose of this rule are clear: the safeguarding of the Minister's work from interventions by the criminal judiciary when the Minister's work has been determined by exceptional requirements. According to constitutional jurisprudence, according to the decisions of the Constitutional Court that has repeatedly intervened on the subject, this exceptional derogation is subject to a strict interpretation and is limited by positive law, by the principles of legal culture at the basis of our legal system. In the absence of those requirements, the exceptional derogation provided for by the law becomes a privilege incompatible with the principles of our constitutional order. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , from the principle of equal treatment in the exercise of the jurisdiction of all citizens, including ministers. Mr President, the forces of the majority intend to deny permission to proceed with vague and inconsistent arguments, without the appropriate reasons for this denial. We have not seen any solid reasons in the majority report that we have heard this evening. To take this type of choice and deny permission to proceed in the absence of detailed reasons is to remove Minister Salvini from the principles of responsibility and equality, which are two fundamental principles of the rule of law. Mr President, today we are not voting only on a specific judicial issue, although it is very important. because it calls into question the Minister of the Interior, Vice Premier and leader of a great political force. That which is currently under discussion is a vision of the state, of republican democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In absolute states, the State is the end and the sovereign is legibus solutus, it is above the law; instead, in constitutional states of law like ours, the State is not a value in itself, but an instrument aimed at the protection of the human person and the fundamental rights of persons; moreover, the reason of State, which is admitted, cannot be without respect for the principles of the constitutional state of law. That's what's at stake. Moreover, the avoidance of ordinary jurisdiction is compatible with the principles of the rule of law only if the conduct which complements the criminal offence is intended to protect a legal object that is pre-eminent to the compressed one, but this assessment must be based on criteria of reasonableness, rationality and proportionality and for a strictly limited time: the derogation is allowed, but subject to precise conditions and according to precise criteria. To support, as we have heard in this House, that every public interest, every political act is in itself preeminent, is to admit the use of any means of achieving any governmental purpose, without proportionality and without control: it is no longer a constitutional state of law, but an absolute state; it legitimizes an absolute power and contradicts the very essence of our rule of law as it is written in the Constitution. This is the most important political point of today's debate and the decision we must take, because the Senate and this House are called upon to reaffirm that Italy is a rule of law in which the principles of responsibility and equality are in force. That is the point, Mr President. The majority, denying authorization to proceed, in fact makes the pre-eminent public interest coincide with an absolute reason of state and an end in itself. That is the point, because in the majority report there is no comparison between the public goods essential to identify the preeminent public interest to be sacrificed to the right of the person: a right of freedom is sacrificed without a real prominent public interest. Mr President, starting to conclude, for us the obligation to save lives at sea is a duty that prevails and Italy has acceded to international conventions governing the matter. The state legislature cannot derogate from these international conventions, let alone a minister in the performance of his duties may disregard these rules. Moreover, Mr Salvini's claim to have acted to defend the Italian borders, as we have read, has no basis, because these 177 shipwrecked who were held hostage for six days were aboard an Italian military ship, were already within the borders of the Homeland, within the national borders and there was no border to defend in this case. The preeminent constitutional principle in the case of the ship Diciotti is the habeas corpus, the protection of personal freedom enshrined in our Constitution, and the personal freedom of those 177 people has been compressed without any reasonableness, without any rationality and without any proportionality. It is on the basis of these facts that we believe that the action of Mr Salvini cannot be seen, neither the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, nor the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest. In the case of the Diciotti vessel, the circumstances and conditions of Law No. 1 of 1989 cannot be seen in the action, behaviour and decisions taken by Minister Salvini; therefore, there are no conditions for granting the Minister the functional immunity guaranteed by the Constitutional Law. These are the reasons why we will vote to grant permission to proceed, allowing Minister Salvini to do what he is not afraid of, at least in words: defending himself in the trial, before the judges legitimized by Italian law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u135	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u136	Mr President, I think we are dealing with a serious matter for both specific and general reasons. For specific reasons, because this is the result of the decision - in our view wretched - to play with the human rights of 177 helpless people. For general reasons, because, acting in the manner in which the Interior Minister Salvini acted and in which the Government acted, it has caused a great wound to some principles to which one should never derogate in a well-ordered democracy, well-functioning and worthy of its name. There has been an injury to the rule of law, and that is never said enough. We feel the need, as a Democratic Party Group, also giving rise to a long series of speeches as we did this evening, to reaffirm with solemnity the following principle: the pursuit of an electoral commitment does not authorize... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u137	Senator Castaldi and Senator Lorefice, I understand that at this time you do not think it is important to listen, but if you are in the Chamber you are forced to do so. Please continue, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u138	I was saying that it is essential for us to reaffirm the principle that the pursuit of an electoral commitment does not authorize anyone, whatever the office he holds, to place himself above the law. We intend to reaffirm the principle that those who win the elections do not acquire the right to violate criminal rules; those who win the elections do not acquire the right to dictate the rules on their own and do not acquire the right to overdo them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is almost humiliating for us to have to repeat these things in the Senate Chamber, but we see that there is, by the forces of the majority and by the Government, a way of proceeding that seems to forget, unaware, one of the greatest foundings of Western democratic civilization. Immanuel Kant said that the law must never adapt to politics and that it is politics that, at all times, must adapt to the law. This principle has been forgotten for a significant part of this House, and not only for the majority, and this is something we feel the need to stress strongly. We also see that there are no elements to say that the letter and substance of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, which regulates the legal status of the ministerial crime, are respected. Where is the interest of the constitutionally relevant State that the conduct of Minister Salvini and the Government would have protected? Where is the prominent public interest? You can't see it. And you can't see it, not because it's hidden, but because it's not there. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that we must seriously question what has happened and also how we have tried to justify the work of the Minister and the Government. Law No 1 of 1989 provides that a derogation may be made from a rule of the State if, in fact, a pre-eminent public interest or a constitutionally relevant interest is pursued, but it provides for the existence of such interests to be demonstrated, not by self-certification. The serious, and even a little ridiculous, thing about the debate that most people have given birth to is this: it has been said that this type of interest can be self-evident. But there is no self-certification in this area. There is no reason to think that Minister Salvini's will to activate a pursuit of consensus, keeping a tension strategy alive in the country that is based on the will to keep the level of fear always high (because fear brings votes and justifies any exaggeration), makes it justifiable to break down principles and norms that are laid at the foundation of our democratic coexistence. Even the absence of the Minister tonight is not something that we can easily accept. It is an act, politically speaking, both of fear and of cunning but not of fear and not of cunning we need in these classrooms: we would need truth, courage, frank debate. The Minister, making himself impossible for the purposes of our debate, also fails to do this duty and violates this duty, as many others have violated it. I also feel obliged to point out that the episode we are discussing tonight is added to other episodes and, all together, these facts constitute a vision of parliamentary democracy among the majority forces that alarms us more and more. I see a red thread linking the facts we are debating tonight with the attacks on the judiciary, the attacks on the independent authorities, the attacks on the guarantee bodies, the loss of Parliament, the violation of Parliament's prerogatives which we saw in the last budget law and not only that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Everything is held and the whole is not much. Let me say it. Everything we see only increases our concern. I would like to conclude by saying, first of all, that we did not feel the need to see the transition from the rule of law to the rule of arbitrary, and instead we see this happening: the transition from the rule of law to the rule of arbitrary. Through the Presidency, I also think it is necessary to conclude this speech - one of the many that the Democratic Party has asked this evening in this House - with some questions that I would like to ask, especially to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, knowing their history and past statements. The first thing I would like to ask them is: but what have you become? You were the no party at every immunity and you will go to history as the party that favored the most scandalous immunity of all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You were the party of honesty and you're going to go through history like the party of complicity. Saving Salvini will lose all credibility: because you will do it against the law for the reasons I said, because you will do it against the evidence of the facts, because you will do it - I am sure - in many cases also against your conscience, because you will do it to safeguard a pact of power and a division of power that has nothing noble and that has much immoral. Stop because you're still in time to do the right thing. I conclude my speech by wishing that tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen of the Movimento 5 Stars (I always say this through you, President) when you vote, I hope that you will do so by obeying your conscience, by doing so at liberty, by remembering everything you have said and that it risks being erased by a simple action such as pressing buttons in one way or another. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u139	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this long debate we have listened first of all to the reports of two very political colleagues, but also daughters of their life experiences. Mr Grasso and Mr De Falco are both legal and rescue experts, so they have a lot to teach us. I believe that those who have listened to them with a critical spirit, lucidity and intellectual honesty can only come to a conclusion, if the topic of this debate is what to decide to do with the serenity with which a Senate of the Republic can decide it: to assess that there is no reason for special treatment towards an Italian citizen, who moreover has claimed with total conviction his actions, which probably - but this will be assessed by the judiciary - are criminal with respect to the current Italian legislation. As a guarantor, I am convinced that anyone who is innocent until final condemnation and I think it is right to give this Italian citizen the opportunity to prove his innocence or, more likely - as he himself asked - his obvious will to violate the legislation because his political convictions lead him to say that it is wrong. Of course, we think that whoever has a majority in government and believes that legislation is wrong would do better to change it and behave in compliance with the law, but it is a claim that he has made. I therefore do not understand why this House should create a shield. The fact that there was no prevailing interest has been argued in a very significant way, not only in the reports, but in the many speeches of my colleagues. It is a very delicate subject: I say it here, but also outside, because I would like the reflection of the country to be on this and to exclude for a moment from the specific case. We risk that tomorrow will pass the idea that this country is in the hands of arbitrariness, not of free will, but of power. All the legal civilization that we have built was born, leaving us from the feudal period and then from that of absolute monarchies, on the basis of the rule of law as an element that protects the citizen from power. In fact, power is useful and important if it consists in the possibility of achieving something on behalf of citizens, but it becomes a threat to the citizen himself if he does not have an insurmountable limit. What we are crossing in these hours is a limit, so tomorrow morning someone might wake up and say that in the prevailing interest of the country it is possible to take away the house to another, who will not be able to say anything, because it is in the prevailing interest of the country. Each of us is at risk if there is no insurmountable boundary on the part of power. You have decided to cross it and - be careful - you have decided to do so for two reasons, both equally dangerous. The first is that, in the face of a contract between two persons, that is, a pact between leaders, the men and women of the head decide, in order to respect this pact, that he cannot be touched by the norm: this is of absolute gravity. The second reason, in my opinion equally serious, is the idea that in this House the new culture can pass that the prevailing interest of the country is demagogy. I have given a lot of thought to the point: there is only one prevailing argument, because, as has been said, there was neither reason nor interest in defending national borders nor a prominent interest in public order. It was now in a port, on national territory, and there was the garrison of the public force: what was the problem? The problem was and is due to the transformation that our democracy is having, unfortunately along with many others: we are moving from democracy to demagogy and in this it counts more the symbols, or rather the screams, or rather the charming, fascinating and engaging declarations that touch the emotions of people compared to concrete actions and facts. Therefore, if an internal minister wants to put in place actions to govern the phenomenon of immigration he does not need to do what our current Minister of the Interior does; if, instead, we are in the age of demagogy, then we need to raise our tones, to invent enemies, to build criminals and to prove us heroes who fight against the dragon that is not there, inventing one to feed the citizens and become heroes. In the time of demagogy the prevailing interest that you are trying to protect is the right to propaganda and demagogy and, therefore, the possibility to intervene contra legem, against the laws, overcoming the laws in order to be able to do what you want in demagogic terms. There is a very dangerous element because in all this the Minister tries to involve and is involving every day and every hour the servants of the State, that instead of being protected as it should be each of us - I have been lucky enough to be the local administrator - by those who deal with politics, recognizes their work and also takes responsibility for their responsibilities, risk being placed in the condition of having political indications that go against their duty as public officials and their duty to the laws. The paradox is that, if it is assumed that this person is a possible bearer of a violation of the norm, it costs him nothing to put others against the norm because for him it is raised by the people who are contractually bound to that pact between two leaders a shield that defends them. All these issues really deserve an individual reflection of each senator and every single senator because they will not go back from what is going to happen in the next few hours in this House and it will be a request that the head of staff will be able to make every time. We have a few hours of reflection and a break. Someone says he brings advice at night. I would like something surprising to happen tomorrow: that we wake up with a Senate that finds its courage, its freedom, its dignity and in which every senator and senator carries its value within this House - as it does every day - and that this Senate should feel freed and without any threat. Nothing will happen to the government; nothing will happen to the majority and nothing will happen to the citizen who we will allow to do what he asked us to do: challenge the dragon; go before the judges and prove his innocence or his willful guilt. Let's give him that chance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u141	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister present-absent, it is necessary to remove any misunderstanding from this debate, any pretext that can be used to fuel a confrontation on the substance of the events on board the Diciotti ship. The Senate will not decide whether Minister Salvini has committed a crime by abusing his powers, unduly holding the refugees and sailors of the Coast Guard patroller for a long time; instead, the Senate will decide whether Minister Salvini will have the freedom to defend himself from the accusations that the court of Agrigento has moved, motivating the reasons why he has decided not to file but, indeed, to refer the acts to Parliament for its evaluation. The Senate will decide even if the reasons for politics, parties and government leadership are stronger than the law and right that every man has to defend in the trial. Minister Salvini himself had strengthened that right when, as soon as he received the guarantee notice, he said he was ready to go to the magistrates even the next day: "I turn myself in," said the Minister. But something has quickly changed and Salvini has decided that it was necessary to defend himself from the trial, from the magistrates who were not elected by anyone. I didn't think we would witness a faded replica of that clash between politics and the judiciary that marked a certainly unupbuilding season in our recent history. For us, not one minister is above the law. For us, who believe that a serious violation, an abuse of power, has been carried out, it is up to the ordinary judiciary to examine the legitimacy of the decisions of the Minister of the Interior. It's not up to us to replace the judiciary and declare Salvini acquitted. We thought that this was also the belief that the Movement brought to this House by a popular wave asked him to be spokesperson for demands of justice and cleanliness in the institutions. We were deceived, like millions of citizens who never thought they would see the party founded by Beppe Grillo resorting to the methods of the so vicious Berlusconi. It's late, but it's good to remember what happened again. In the night between 14 and 15 August 2018, the Italian Coast Guard ship Diciotti saved 190 migrants in the Maltese SAR. For five days the ship remained off Lampedusa, while Minister Salvini was arguing with Malta and other European countries about the distribution of shipwrecks and threatened a refusal to Libya. From there, only 13 migrants in serious health conditions were landed as a matter of urgency. On August 20 - and five days had already passed - Minister Toninelli indicated Catania as a port of docking, but Salvini denied the authorization to disembark, continuing to dispute with the other countries so that they would take charge of the reception of the saved migrants. The ship Diciotti remained then still in the port of Catania with 177 people on board. On August 22, 29 unaccompanied minors landed. The others were landed in the night between August 25 and 26: eleven days later. For eleven days a large group of migrants were detained on board; they were denied any health and social assistance, which was prevented from submitting applications for reception. For all of this, Agrigento's attorney has decided to investigate Minister Salvini for kidnapping, illegal arrest and abuse of office. Now, as the Constitution provides, this House can deny the authorization, with resolution by an absolute majority, "where" - I would like to quote it again - "the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State." The President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Valerio Onida, has written that, in our case, an assessment is entrusted exclusively to the Parliamentary Assembly so that, even if the fact itself constitutes a crime, it considers the action of the Minister justified by the prevalence of the public interest and therefore takes it away from the normal procedural consequences and sanctions. We are therefore all called upon to grant the competent judicial authority permission to proceed against the Minister, but the Constitutional Law of 1989 also provides that, by an absolute majority, the House of Membership may also deny it, if it considers that the inquisition has acted in compliance with the above-mentioned constitutional rule. I recalled this: Minister Salvini, right from the start, stated that he wanted to face the trial with an open face and without escamotage. Today, however, the Minister, who is not afraid of anyone, wants to shield himself from the constitutional norm and invokes in his defence the unconditional deployment of all the Senators of the League and those of the Movimento 5 Stars. What are the internal balances of the majority is not given and we are not even interested in knowing. Moreover, it has been read in the agencies what was the order given to the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, who sit here deprived of the freedom to vote according to their conscience. Our position is different, so we call on Mr Salvini to submit himself, like any citizen who respects himself, to the judgment of the ordinary judiciary. If it is finally condemned, it will mean that it will not have prevented the landing for security reasons, compressing the fundamental freedoms of migrants not for a legitimate reason, but for political reasons. However, we must not be the ones to establish this, but we are asking for a state court to establish it. We would like it to be reiterated here without hesitation that the law applies to everyone, including Salvini. Allow me to add a thought that I hope will be shared or at least taken into account beyond our ranks: we are here in this House, which is one of the sacred places of our democracy, where everything reminds us of our duties, to reflect on an issue that ignores in its essence all political value and should be understood first of all as an ethical theme, because when any of us, elected member of this House or mere citizen, no longer considers as the supreme good the respect of man and the life of his fellowmen, at that time we must stop. If all this no longer shakes our consciences, it means not only that we have abjured ourselves of that categorical imperative that determines our humanity, but that we have also left behind centuries of progress on the path of rights and also that Constitutional Charter which should always guide us in our work as parliamentarians. "The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man": it is Article 2 of the Constitution. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u143	We know Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u144	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u145	Mr President, today the Senate is called upon to express itself on an affair that has no precedent in republican history. At the so-called exchange festival within the majority tomorrow Minister Salvini is saved and Thursday he makes the exchange saving maybe Minister Toninelli. We're not at this ballet. I address Minister Salvini, who has not been in the Chamber since the first moment, and to all the Government that is responsible for robbing 177 people of their freedom and dignity, violating our Constitution and international conventions: we ask you to examine your conscience and look at the climate of hatred and fear that you have created in the country. Unfortunately, we see it dramatically in the daily news. We want to restore the existence of law and humanity, constitutional legality and human rights that the government is violating every day. For the first time in republican history the interest of the majority coalition in the implementation of a political line is made to coincide with the pre-eminent public interest, that is to say with a reason of state or government that in the democratic state of law cannot be an end in itself. Today's vote is therefore not about a judicial affair, which is also relevant, but a very vision of the State because this is a real political act, an act of government, a majority which as such should prevail - in your opinion - over the public interest. This notion of a public act was, however, - as we have already seen on other occasions, and we think about racial laws - excluded from the Council of State. Then we ask ourselves: in order to be able to justify such action, as our common legal heritage in the rule of law says - and still fortunately we are - there must be serious reasons for national security, of real danger to the integrity of the state, to the life and safety of people and to the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens. But, as we know from the acts filed so far, we refer, in addition to the request for authorization of the court of Catania, to the memory presented by the Minister of the Interior to the Assembly of the elections and shared by the President of the Council and the Government, from which it emerges, however, that there is no such danger. The court of Catania writes that it is not understood what the qualified public interest could be, i.e. recognized and protected as such by law rules. The report highlights that there are no dangers for our country, since it has been established that on board the ship Diciotti there were no subjects suspected of being a danger to these fundamental values, the only ones that could have allowed the invocation to Article 52 of the Constitution, namely the defense of the Homeland, while yes the personal freedom and the dignity of migrants constitute fundamental rights of the person, recognized as inviolable values of our Constitution, regarding both Italian citizens and any other person of any nationality. They are also recognized as values that cannot be denied by international principles and rules that our country has always shared. For all these reasons, the decision that you will take here tomorrow at the Senate will have an institutional and not simply political importance and will have consequences, as well as creating a precedent, which will de facto limit the personal freedom and, therefore, the inviolable rights of every citizen. Then ask yourself what you are doing - you have this night to think about it - what precedent will be created after this absurd vote that this House will perhaps express tomorrow. Let's think about what the Mediterranean means; let's think about what it means to talk about a thousand-year-old civilization like ours, made of hospitality, humanity and solidarity. These are unknown words to this Government, which has already sold itself several times in an exchange of mutual favors. We're not in. We defend individual rights and freedom, we defend every human being because this is a rule of law. This is a republican state. This is a democratic country. Long live the Constitution! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u146	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u147	Mr President, I am sorry to have to start yet another speech at this time in the continuing absence...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u148	But she doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u149	[[Laughter. Applause.]] VALENT (PD). I'd love to, but I would've done it more willingly... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said that because she said she was sorry. VALENT (PD). If he had brought me to an end, he would have also understood the meaning of my sentence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, but I was joking. I was relaxing the tension. VALENT (PD). But there is no tension in that respect, Mr President. I wanted to tell you that I regret to start the intervention in the continuing absence of Minister Salvini who, although probably taken from some of his television presence, we hoped that at some point he would realize that he did not have to come here to listen to what they had to say the oppositions, but simply... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I say this before the work is closed and it has been confirmed before me by my colleague Vice President, who is from the PD Group: you know very well that there is no obligation on the part of... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). But I was simply communicating the political assessment to her. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u150	But why are you angry? I would repeat what my colleague said earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u151	VALENT (PD). Because there is no need to repeat that, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who's screaming? BELLANOVA (PD). I scream because you interrupt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is that you, partner? I didn't get it. Please continue, Senator Valente. VALENT (PD). Will you give me back the two minutes I missed, ma'am? As I said, it's not an offense to the Democratic Party. It is not to flaunt arrogance and presumption towards the Democratic Party. It is to show an arrogance and a lack of respect towards that Parliament in whose name and thanks to the confidence of which it sits in the benches of the Government. I'd like to start with this. In the evaluation that the Senate is called to express today, different reasons and profiles are crossed, some of a legal nature in the strict sense, others rather than of a more political nature. There is one thing, however, which undoubtedly does not belong to this House, as many colleagues have said before me: the assessment of the guilt or innocence of an Italian citizen, who remains - I would remember - fortunately in the hands of an independent and autonomous judiciary, even if the citizen in question is the Minister of the Interior in office and the leader of this Government and the majority. It's not our job to go into the prosecution's business. It is not up to us to judge whether it is justified or not; much less we are here today considering whether that accusation has been raised in an artificial way, if it is found, that is, a fumus persecutionis. It has little to do with parliamentary immunity from someone evoked. It has nothing to do with this, because today we must consider, even if this is a crime, whether the Minister's action has been justified by the prevailing public interest. We are not faced with a frank political assessment; we must base ourselves on legal principles, which in a constitutional and democratic system are never in the full discretion of politics alone. That is why the subjective profile cannot be enough for us today, that is, the fact that Minister Salvini, for his part, has declared that, in denying the landing, there was a pre-eminent public interest. We have all read carefully the words that Minister Salvini sent, on 29 January, to the Corriere della Sera, writing that he has acted in order to verify the possibility of a fair distribution between the countries of the European Union of immigrants on board the ship Diciotti. With those words, however, Minister Salvini admits more than he says: he reveals that he considers the content of his electoral promise far above and far more important than what is permitted by law, the law of the sea and international law. We are in the presence of a Minister of the Interior who basically considers - as has already been said - his function as Minister as a mandate of the people, who places him above the law and would allow him to bend to his own exclusive pleasure interests which in themselves have a higher value - those yes - starting from respect for fundamental human rights, including precisely that to personal freedom, which can never - I say, never - be in the free and absolute availability of political power. All this is not only unacceptable to those who have a minimum of care for the defence of our rule of law and its democratic principles and of guarantee; all this is also very far from making the behaviour held by the Minister an acceptable attitude in the light of the many times called pre-eminent public interest. Then you want us to believe that the government's immigration policy was an unambiguous, linear policy, but we have shown you that it is not. Only a month before, in July 2018, we all remember that a case similar to that of Diciotti ended only when the President of the Council ordered the landing. At that juncture the Minister of the Interior explicitly stated that he did not agree with the decisions taken by the President of the Council; this situation was repeated with the Diciotti case, when the Minister of the Interior threatened a crisis of government, in case his political line had been disavowed by the President of the Council. Let us begin to say, therefore, that in those days there were initiatives taken individually by the Minister of the Interior, in dissent from other members of the Government. Other than shared and coordinated government address! The real point is that, when a public interest is at stake, the government's approach to it should also be based on seriousness, consistency and accountability. Instead, these are all elements that have been lacking in the policies of the last few months, particularly those on immigration, and have been so clearly in the case of the Diciotti ship. On that occasion, a serious political initiative was missing, using the instruments of conciliation and not the instruments of the threat. Diplomacy, which would have been necessary if there had really been an international dispute between Italy and the Maltese State, was lacking. Finally, the credibility of other European countries, which this Government began to lose when the Visegrád Group, very much loved by our Government, put us in the corner on the issue of immigration. When it came to amending, on a proposal from the European Parliament, the rule of first entry, replacing it with a compulsory mechanism for allocating asylum seekers, the forces holding this government have disappeared or abstained or even voted against. It is paradoxical, speaking of the government's direction, because in practice they voted against what they themselves had written in the notorious government contract. Let me say that this is inevitable, because when you use a nationalist logic it is clear that, then, in the end, you clash with irreconcilable interests, border against border, and instead of playing them to others - as our government says - you end up being played. Then, when you are no longer credible with your partners, you only have the hold of propaganda and empty announcements, in which Minister Salvini has shown excellence in these months. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This begins with the attempt to confuse the fight against illegal immigration with the rescue of shipwrecks at sea, which has precise rules and obligations, starting from that of identifying, precisely, the port of disembarkation. As we discuss, another ship - the Ionian Sea - has been blocked by Italy outside the port of Lampedusa with 49 migrants on board. They are people who, after having been tortured and beaten, are fleeing Libyan prisons, endangering their lives so as not to return to hell. And the Italian Minister of the Interior had the nerve to invite them to land in the Libyan ports, which - according to him - are adequate to offer logistic and health assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, if it were not dramatic, this situation would even appear to be unbelievable. The acts carried out last August by Minister Salvini leave no doubt. The order not to land the shipwrecked was issued to put pressure on the States of the European Union. A serious government would be activated to change common rules by lawful means. Instead, our Minister preferred blackmail to the member countries, violating rules and obligations of international and domestic law, and the government went after them all, because it did not find the political force to stop them. What happened in August 2018 is there to demonstrate one simple thing: the sovereignism every other day of this Government, which one day claims national prerogatives and the other asks for supranational aid, can at most produce evidence of force used as a weapon of blackmail, but cannot produce a coherent and capable political direction of government to pursue an objective. Other than public interest: the one that went on stage in August is only a shameful act of irresponsible propaganda that our Minister of the Interior has charged men, women and children, who, in order to see their lives improved, had run the risk of losing it and, instead, they have been limited, without any justification, their rights. There were no terrorists on that ship, no people who could endanger public safety; there were 177 desperate people, including unaccompanied minors and women who had been subjected to violence until a few days before. These are people who have been used shamefully. It is for this reason that Minister Salvini cannot today oppose the shield that comes from his activity as Minister and must be able to be judged by a competent and autonomous judiciary that, in full and absolute freedom, in every democratic and just state would be called to evaluate its work. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u152	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u153	Mr President, the events from which Mr Salvini's very heavy accusations arise have been impressed in our collective memory countless times, too many times - I mean unbearably too many times - for Italy, Europe and our democracies. The story refers to 190 human beings - children, women and men - at the risk of life and at the mercy of the sea, who had the right, enshrined in the laws of the sea, international conventions, the Constitution and Italian laws, to be rescued and led to a safe harbor. This, however, did not happen in those five very long days, between 20 and 25 August last year, in which the landing was prevented and our rule of law was suspended, as the court of Catania says. This happened for the 190 people of the Diciotti ship, the 47 of the Sea Watch and, today, the 49 of the Ionian Sea. Every time we ask ourselves how many are coming, but - colleagues - we should ask ourselves where they are running from. We never ask ourselves that, and this is a mistake, a wrong. We must say loudly, out of intellectual and political honesty, that they are fleeing from wars and persecutions, as we have escaped decades ago. They run away from unspeakable violence, such as those of the Libyan camps, which we should call a lager, where there is a huge barbarism that is being consumed and we cannot ignore anything. The agreements with Libya must be torn apart. On the other hand, an international peace mission must be put in place. The rescue activity in the Mediterranean must be resumed: the indifference of the Italian Government is a moral and political chasm. The fact that obsessively the theme of the invasion is something false, a great weapon of mass distraction, as well as the fact that a minister and a government prevent to land in an Italian port to 177 people, of which 29 minors, for which the Italian law prescribes absolute prohibition of refusal - persons guests on an Italian ship and therefore on Italian soil - in order to ensure that for days, obsessively, we continue to talk about immigration, to hide the pneumatic vacuum on the job and the economy, the unemployment that grows and the recession that bleeds out our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Italy is a great country, it does not deserve this shame and that unarmed people are held hostage, to be used at a European negotiating table. In Europe one counts for authority and what authority can a country whose vice president is accused of kidnapping, office abuse and rescue omission? [[Applause from Senator Brollini]] These are huge accusations, which in other laws would lead to high treason and impeachment. For us human life and respect for the person come before any electoral calculation, because here our democracy lives or dies. Therefore, there can be no political choice that violates the laws and, in this case, personal freedom, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Can this House, Mr President, endorse the massive violation of human rights? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, because our Constitution is the daughter of the Resistance and our constituent Fathers then swore that there would never again be a violation of rights and never again a suspension of the rule of law, as was the case during Fascism. "Defending the rights of migrants means first of all defending all of us," wrote Luigi Ferrajoli, and it is true. I would add that this means that the rights of Italians, especially those of the weakest among us, do not fall behind. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, by preventing the judiciary from moving forward and denying authorisation to proceed, you strike the rule of law and you say that politics is an absolute, arbitrary power and above the law. So I ask: if tomorrow, rather than against migrants, this power was used against the freedom of the press, which, moreover, is never threatened by your cuts and policies, or by minorities? Does this remind you of anything? The vote on Salvini is a point of no return; a distraction to the balance of powers; a threat to that freedom of every citizen, which is inviolable, like that of 177 of the ship Diciotti. Mr President, there is, however, a senator in this House - Senator Giarrusso del MoVimento 5 Stars - who, a long time ago, addressing President Renzi, said: "It would be to hang, offending millions of Italians, this institution and our Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Malan]] It is the same senator who, days ago, referred to the opposition parliamentarians, made the gesture of handcuffs: an abject gesture. He, interviewed by the "Corriere della Sera" in connection with Salvini's rescue, said that the Minister of the Interior must be free to act in the name and on behalf of the State. Is there anything more disturbing and dangerous than a phrase like that? No Minister or Head of Government can be free to act on behalf of the State, because we have a Constitution and laws, to guarantee the democratic rights of all, which everyone must respect. The representatives of the Government first have the obligation to do so and Salvini also has this obligation; that Salvini who, some time ago, at the beginning of this story said: "Let me trial!" He said it in the rallies, screaming. On the other hand, when the request arrived, strong and motivated, he escaped from the trial. However, those who run do it out of fear, Mr President, and then Minister Salvini decided to be saved from trial at all costs and the 5 Stars decided to save Salvini. In order to remain in power they have no problem - they are proving it - selling their souls. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They screamed for years no immunity for anyone, but it was propaganda, it was made fun of. For a shred of power, for some ministerial office, the prospect can change and then they can vote in favour of immunity because, if Salvini falls, they all go home and then say yes to immunity and no to judges. Then stands the pantomime of the online consultation to justify the betrayal of their positions; a consultation managed by Casaleggio, on the online platform of Casaleggio, with the results certified by Casaleggio: in short, a transparent vote, free, with the 5 Star parliamentarians who, if they do not comply, will be kicked out [[Applause from the PD Group]] As was repeated yesterday, other than direct democracy! It is the most totalitarian model that exists, where through the Internet one decides for everyone, depending on the conveniences, what to do. However, it is a wrong calculation, Mr President, because this vote marks the end of the 5 Stars, which become one with Salvini, and indeed become Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] They are finally welded in the call to run, like two faces of the same bad coin. You shouted against power; today you cover up the accusations of abuse of power and kidnapping of a person addressed to you, appealing to a caste privilege, because this is what it is about. But we don't. We, in compliance with the laws and the rule of law, will vote for the authorization to proceed against Minister Salvini, because there is no defence of the interests of the State in holding unarmed people hostage, violating the principle of legality, which is the heart of democratic states, only for political, propaganda and electoral reasons. Today's is a black page. Tomorrow you won't be able to say you don't know. We will not be accomplices; we will continue to speak and denounce aloud; we will awaken those consciences that you have been fooling for too long, but that you cannot deceive yet. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u154	I shall refer the document back to another sitting. I would like to point out that tomorrow will be the 100th public session. So, the 100 rule obviously works here too.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u155	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-99.ana.u156	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 20 March, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.59 a.m.
