ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1633, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, the Government put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of the bill when we examined it, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, and the debate on the question of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u4	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u6	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure we vote on the third confidence in three days and therefore, as with the tax decree, we can only comment on the work of our colleagues in the House. Although we understand the reasons behind this, we are increasingly facing a compromise in Parliament's role and prerogatives. If there really is a need to overcome the perfect bicameralism, it is done seriously by proposing a reform of the Constitution. We think that the school is the main civil infrastructure of the country and, as such, deserves systematic maintenance work through the valorization of teachers, the essential role of technical and administrative staff and the centrality of students and their educational paths. Unfortunately, it can be said that in recent years a series of reforms have taken place - I believe that no government has renounced the temptation to do so - one of which canceled the other, until it resulted in a situation of great confusion, a so-called normative juniper that has made uncertain the training paths and the methods of access to teaching. The school has become the largest temporary agency in the country, with huge pockets of precariousness in the teaching and administrative body and negative repercussions on teaching and educational continuity. But the real point is that in the meantime the world has experienced a technological revolution, which has also had a very strong impact on the formation of children. The school, as the main agency of knowledge, has found itself experiencing the competition, not always positive, of other tools of training and learning, and has marked the step not being able to renew its role, but leaving our boys at the mercy of a Network that - as we have discovered - requires critical tools not only for them, but also for adults. At the same time, there has also been a cultural transformation - it would be more correct to call involution - that is the idea that knowledge is not so important compared to the possibilities of success in life. We have therefore seen the spread of school education growing; we have seen the phenomenon of young people who are not studying and who are not looking for work: young people who, in one word, have given up before they even begin. We then believe that this measure is motivated by a positive intention, with positive repercussions for those who have made the school their professional reason and, in many cases, also of life. We also believe that there is a need to start a very deep reflection on what must be the function of the school in a world that is different and that will be even more so in the coming years. The latest data from the University of Pisa tell us of a serious delay of our children, especially in some regions, on the ability to read and understand. We live a return illiteracy, which is the greatest tragedy in the world in which everything passes from understanding, management and the production of information. It is something that undermines the very idea of citizenship, the impossibility of fully exercising their rights and duties. This is certainly the most worrying and significant fact on which to work, in order to avoid a real "caporetto" of our public education system. In conclusion, this measure, which, for once, aims to make order, although knowing that many situations remain outside its perimeter, such as that of non-graduate administrative directors or young people who ask not to block competitions. In this regard, we heard the legitimate requests of people who need special attention in the next steps. To this end, too, the work of this branch of Parliament would have been useful in making clear the valuable work which - as many have acknowledged - has been done by the House's committees. There are a couple of issues - for example - which concern the linguistic minorities that our Group has tried to get approved, at least on the agenda, but which have not been accepted out of the question. It is a choice that regrets us, because it concerns the correct conduct of the state exams and the tests carried out in German-speaking schools and Ladin in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. These are problems which remain on the table and which will have to be resolved as soon as possible. Just as the need for a strong reflection on the role of the school remains on the table, on how it can play its role in a world that is experiencing such a radical and profound transformation. It is for these reasons that I announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u9	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this decree-law and, in announcing our vote in favour, we want to highlight some very important issues for us. In the meantime, we certainly believe that this measure is a step forward, because it has many positive aspects. However, I would like to say at once that we cannot remain silent on some of the issues on which we have been committed for a long time. During the examination in the Chamber we asked - for example - that the possibility of participating in the extraordinary competition for administrative assistants acting as DSGA for more than three years without the title provided, precisely because we felt absolutely right to arrive at a solution for people who - as was highlighted yesterday also by the Undersecretary - strongly contribute to the functioning of schools. We have asked - and this is a very important point for us, on which we want to return - for the repeal of the obligation to participate in the tests that have been carried out as a requirement for the final examinations of the first and second grade high schools. As we have said several times in the last parliamentary term, evaluation is a very serious issue, too serious to reduce it simply to the Invalsi tests. The Invalsi, in fact, do nothing but do - as Fr.Milani said - equal parts among unequal, transforming themselves into a test that measures social inequalities, and not preparation. Let me give an example starting from Rome: the same test on the lexical mastery done in Tor Bella Monaca gives different results than the one given to the pupils living in the historic center, who have another type of family behind them. We still strongly repeat that we feel that the introduction of the duty to remain at the place of entry for five years is unfair. I know that this was almost a concession on the basis of requests for autonomy, but I think we will have to come back to this. I could mention other issues that are important to us, but - said this - we believe that the decree-law on our examination represents a very important step on a dimension, such as that of school, university and research, fundamental for our country. This is the issue on which we must focus, because it should be our main investment in building the future of the country. That is why we are going to vote in favour. The school was, in the history of our country, the instrument that guaranteed true national unification. We are not a country that was born in itself united from the Alps to the pyramids; it was the school the fundamental instrument of unification and has allowed for many years to build paths of emancipation and a social elevator for millions of people. For too long now the Italian school has unfortunately become, in the public debate and - alas - also in that of political decision-makers, a sort of waste stone: it has lost its centrality. It has been lost, in public discourse, the focal point that should instead be at the center of our discussion, that is, the social value of the function of teaching, but also of the function of those who study, form and build their own citizenship path. Today, in such a complex, changing, constantly changing world, we should put the school at the centre even more, because knowledge is the way on which to resume a path of progress and quality; it is necessary that the political decision-makers, the legislators, the government focus on this topic and give important signals. In this complicated context, made of years in which the school was unfortunately abandoned, and not only with the cuts that were remembered yesterday, also substantial - I think of the 8 billion euros of Gelmini - but also with being considered almost a secondary element in the discussion and in the commitments of the Government and abandoned to the precarious, the decree-law under consideration builds some very important interventions, which have already been partially remembered in yesterday's debate. It banishes the two competitions (one ordinary and one extraordinary) for 48,000 places. We know that it does not completely heal the scourge of historical precariousness, but it is a very important and advanced element, because it is a very useful number to begin to intervene significantly on the plague, which has plagued and still afflicts the national school system. It is also useful to provide new selection and job opportunities for young future teachers. The audience of those who will be able to participate in the extraordinary competition is extended, now open to both teachers who have completed service in vocational education and training, and to those who have carried out one of the three year required by the school year 2008-2009, and to those who are carrying out the third year of service in the current year. It is not enough - we know perfectly well - but it is certainly a great step forward. However, we must commit ourselves in the future to ensure that there is certainty regarding the frequency of the mechanisms of access to the profession of teaching, perhaps by regularly establishing transparent channels of access and public competitions that allow those who want to measure themselves with the possibility of practicing that profession, with instruments of reform that perhaps exceed, once and for all, the dichotomy between recruitment and certification, which often and willingly, at the time of the competition, is also very difficult to verify in its effectiveness. It is precisely on certification that a serious and in-depth discussion must be made. This is the point on which we must also focus by opening the way for those who - for example - have worked hard to obtain a PhD. The importance of resuming the debate on the system of compulsory education is an absolutely crucial issue for us, because it is the strategic lever for the stability of the school system and to give the right response to the tens of thousands of workers concerned. It is very positive, moreover, that with the approval of the budget law 2020 will have changed - for example - the teacher bonus: there will be no more, but the resources will finally be moved to the school fund and, therefore, return to the availability of bargaining and, therefore, to the teachers and ATA staff. This is a criterion that many schools have already begun to adopt in order to limit what we had strongly criticized, namely the discretion of managers and evaluation committees. It is clear that this cannot be enough, because it is necessary to renew contracts and adjust salaries, the other big issue. When we hear of the fact that we must bring Italian school to the highest European level, we cannot forget that perhaps we should also bring teachers' salaries to European levels. This is a crucial issue for us, because it means finally carrying out an economic but also social revaluation of the role of the teacher. Therefore, for school, university and research we must invest intellectual, moral, political and economic resources. Each euro intended for school and education is an investment in the future; it is a real investment in health, safety and development of all and all. Let us always remember: the school is almost the main instrument for the implementation of Article 3 of our Constitution. Maybe we should have explained it better. It is a first step - I repeat - but we are certainly facing a positive step. For this reason, we Senators of the LEU Group and the majority of the Mixed Group vote strongly in favour of this decree and confidence in the Government. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u12	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we too would have liked to have further improved the measure we are considering here in the Senate, but we still think it is a satisfactory text. Of course, more could be done; but there are more resources for education, especially if we put together what we have included in the financial maneuver, in addition to the school decree, precisely for education and the MIUR. If we put the two measures together, it turns out that the collective bargaining fund has been increased for both 2020 and 2021, and therefore they are also useful resources for the MIUR. A fund has been created to build or renovate kindergartens and nursery schools, and I take this opportunity to thank Minister Elena Bonetti. It has been financed, with 30 million annually, the fund to increase the pay of school managers and has increased by more than 12 million that for peer schools that receive pupils with disabilities. 11 million more were recovered for the training of teachers; the university grants fund has been increased and the resources for the admission of doctors to specialization schools have also been increased. The dual system has been refinanced with EUR 46 million for training and education. Of course, we need to invest even more in university and research in the coming years, as Minister Fioramonti himself said. But for so many good reasons we consider this a good starting text. First of all, there is a reversal of course. After fifteen months of the previous government, led by the League, in which we were talking only about demolishing the school-work alternation, about emptying the fund on merit, about entering the fingerprints for the principals, finally we return to talk about education and school, the most important place of growth and training after the family (not only place of knowledge). There is no more talk of sanatoria - this is an essential reason for us - as the former Minister Bussetti of the League wanted. I would like to remind you of who was yelling at you yesterday in this House. There is talk of extraordinary ordinary competition, with a selective itinerary, taking into account the specificity of teachers with so much precarious behind them. For us in Italy Viva these are fundamental points. It is not by chance that we talk no more of a decree that saves precarious, but of a decree school and university. We know how great the drama of the precariousness is and we know that we do not solve it completely with this measure, but we are still taking a step forward. We also have a duty, as institutions and as Parliament, to speak to families and students who are entitled to a high-quality school. I said at the beginning that the debate in the House has greatly improved the text, but we would have wanted to do even more. In particular, we would have liked an intervention on the subject of the eligible for the competition reserved for teachers of religion; on the inequalities that still remain between teachers of state schools and equals; on the internalization of services for cleaning in the school, as Mrs Parente recalled yesterday. I would also like to thank Mr De Cristofaro, who has accepted our agenda on this important issue, which must be dealt with further in the next steps. We had tabled amendments on competitions, because we think that they have a duty to get the best, regardless of the course of education done within the national education system, which - I remember - is unique and includes even schools. Despite the problems highlighted, which remain important for us and we want them to be resolved, we consider this an important measure, which takes a step forward and goes in the right direction compared to the previous Government. For all these reasons we must continue on this path: more money for education, for university and for research in the next steps. We have and know how hard it has been to make a financial maneuver where we first had to think about not increasing VAT and, despite this - as I mentioned before - progress has been made with real and important resources. As someone said, he gave himself a soul to finance with the few resources we had available, because we chose priorities. We have chosen to invest in education and school, which is a fundamental asset that belongs to community welfare. These are words that matter to us, they are important words: to put the individual at the centre, the growth and formation of the personality of our children. These are important pillars to start talking again about a better and fairer society, where everyone can have the same opportunities. For all these elements and for others that we will face in the next measures, we in Italy Viva will vote strongly in favour of the measure under consideration and we will be at the disposal of the Government and with the Government to work in this direction. I end by remembering that Aldo Moro said that we do not need a lukewarm and unjust policy, but a policy that is intensely human and - I add - courageous. We're gonna move on and we're gonna make it. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u15	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Brothers of Italy cannot but vote against the confidence in the measure under consideration for reasons of merit which I shall present, but without fail before stressing how this Assembly, the Senate of the Republic, and the Italian Parliament have been exonerated. We are going to vote on the fourth confidence in ten days: a return to the past for the PD gentlemen, a welcome to the present for the five stars. So much confidence in the Palace, very little in our nation: it is a real democratic emergency that we know, because there is no real and concrete possibility of making positive contributions on measures such as these concerning the lives of thousands of people who have invested, bet and play important roles in our society as trainers of the citizens of the future. This provision for us, which we have always been for the stabilization of precarious people, is badly thought out and written worse. It has been announced as a save-precari but to us it seems that it is more a "kill-insecure", a measure that discriminates and for this reason we have presented a preliminary constitutionality illustrated by our leader Luca Ciriani, because we consider the issue that concerns teachers who have served in peer schools and who are resoundingly excluded from the possibility to participate in the contest. Our amending activity was aimed precisely at improving the measure and giving answers to broad areas that will be essentially outside the school world, to make contributions that could solve and "put some patches". I make explicit reference to the incredible question of the magisterial graduates who find no solution and continue to remain in this Dante's circle of precariousness; I refer to the story of school leaders who have been forced to resort to the judiciary to assert their rights; I refer to Catholic religious teachers who continue to be treated as children of a minor god: they have been waiting for years for the possibility of being stabilised and once again they are not given a response that can assure a satisfactory chance to carry out their work in a more serene and dignified way; I refer to the story of the DSGA working, people who for many years have ruled the fate of the Italian school, who have earned a dignity and professionalism on the field and who will be substantially "cestinate", first used and then abandoned. There was an opportunity to recognize a dignity to our university researchers, but we also found an absolute deafness on the part of the government and the majority. It is clear that there is a lack of financial resources but in this regard I want to say that it would have been enough simply to use the resources now devoted to the income of citizenship to invest in Italian school and education and to recognize to our teachers salaries that are more dignified and more adapted to the noble function they carry out than the Italian society. The OECD report in September makes it clear that the Italian school is in great difficulty and that our teachers are the least paid in Europe. If then, as so much rhetoric says, you really want to invest in the school and the future of our nation, you could simply do this, not ban a competition that will create the new war of the poor and that does not give a full answer to the needs and problems of the Italian precarious. We are talking about 24,000 places in the presence of over 170,000 vacations, so we are talking about a very small measure. Evidently, the government is more concerned with ideological issues. I would like to say to the Minister, whom I do not see in the Chamber, that if instead of worrying about cutting off the crucifixes and dedicating himself to world maps, he would think of the concrete needs of the Italian school we would have some more positive response. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We do not know if the press indiscretions that want you to resign soon correspond to the truth, but we are sure that in the next few hours many thousands of people will ask for your resignation. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u16	I welcome and greet on behalf of the Assembly the students of the Classical High School of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u19	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, members of the Government, just in the days when the decree-law was being passed, the OECD-PISA document was also issued which certifies very alarming data. For example, compared to teenagers in other OECD countries, our youngsters are unable to distinguish opinions from facts and, above all, are unable to grasp the main subject in a medium-length text. I think we'll do our country a good service if we all recognize this emergency, that is, if we don't try to minimize it or underestimate it. In this sense, in addition to the recruitment problems, which are certainly basic, whose solution is a priority and is the main object of the decree-law under consideration, I believe that we should also seek together answers to the educational, cultural and social obstacles that prevent the children of our country from having the same opportunities as their peers from other countries. In fact, it is quite clear that the national and international surveys tell of an Italian school system that does not unlock the social elevator, in which schools tend to be attended by students with the same socio-economic and cultural background. This creates segregation and immobility as a consequence. The main aim of the Decree-Law in question is - I would like to stress this - to remedy the shortage of staff in the field and to reduce the use of fixed-term employment contracts in order to improve the quality of training courses in educational institutions. I must also remind you that this measure must be contextualized in relation to the starting point and also to the institutional and political moments. We are talking about a measure approved by the previous Government, unless agreed, which has been significantly modified, creating a better balance between all stakeholders (teachers, families and students). A decree therefore from the troubled iter but that it resumes in a consistent and clear way the qualifying objective and shared: to counter the precarious in order to guarantee the continuity of teaching for 8 million pupils and the stability of a school community of more than 9 million people who engage in the school their professional, educational and relational competence on the side of knowledge and educational relations. I would like to recall in this context, in my brief speech, the enormous difficulties with which this school year has begun which are certainly not new in the history of our school system in our country but which in 2019 have taken on an even more worrying character: in September the precarious has exceeded every negative record and, as if that were not enough, the number of retired teachers has increased by 22,000 units following the extraordinary retirements of 100, in addition to the 20,000 ordinary retirements. I think a serious government should look first at the kids who are the future of our country. We always tell ourselves this, but very often we forget it in fact, so I hope that in the coming months we will know and we will continue after this first step, pressing even more force in this direction, so that in the choices we will make there are objectives and aspects qualifying for our political action and therefore the possibility for Italy to ensure sustainable and competitive growth in the world. The decree-law in question - and I repeat this because of the numbers I have mentioned - is indispensable in order to promote the functionality of the education system. Two separate but contextual competitions have been planned, as has already been said in previous interventions (the first with extraordinary procedure, the second with ordinary procedure), which will bring a total of 48,000 new recruitments. It is, evidently, a new and beneficial breath of oxygen, indispensable for a system that ran out. I cannot ignore the fact that unfortunately there have been legislative interventions over the years that have tried to intervene with different results in order to solve complex and often demotivating issues, such as precariousness and lack of continuity of teaching, producing a sometimes contradictory stratification of many norms, overlooking perhaps the more forward-looking or more effective ones. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the successive governments cancel, in a sort of innovative rush, what had been done by the previous Executives and this damages the stability of the school and the educational paths of the students. That is why I would like to acknowledge that my colleagues in the House have improved the measure in progress, extending the audience of teachers who will be able to participate in the extraordinary competition to those who teach in equal schools and in vocational education and training (IeFP), to those who play at another level or in another class of competition, extending the requirement for participation to the current school year. The ordinary competition will allow more than 24,000 young people who want to dedicate themselves to teaching to meet the competition challenge. Several other interventions have been planned, which I cannot of course list for the short time available but which take into account the good work done in the other branch of Parliament, including measures for school transport in support of the less well-off families or an educational-pedagogic incentive to equal opportunities, since, with equal skills, there is a greater difficulty in imagining their future if children come from a social disadvantage. Above all, however, interventions have been encouraged to combat gender stereotypes that resist, weakening the identity of girls, the will to design their own investment in studies and career expectations. I would also like to highlight an important innovation concerning the research doctors and the score that will be awarded to them in the next ordinary competitions. This too is a passage that affirms a new principle. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u20	Colleagues, please lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u21	IORI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that this is also a step that affirms a new principle: the necessary enhancement of high-level skills and studies. I hope, therefore, that in the coming months we can build and implement a structural path in the relationship between the research doctors and the school. In addition, the indisputable IT skills have been included, enhancing the role of digital teaching methodologies and technologies. I could point out many other significant measures, but rather than extending on the individual pieces contained in the measure under consideration (even if these are absolutely necessary pieces), I would like to stress the urgency of relaunching system interventions, in order to combat all forms of educational poverty. In conclusion, the great objective for reformist and progressive governments is precisely to respond to this immense challenge that is both human, cultural, economic and civilization. Starting from recruitment, with these proposals - from children's services to high school - we invest in the training, updating and career of teachers. This means securing school structures, but also investing in building new learning spaces, and opening up to relations with families and local educational services. This is the challenge of democracy, growth, culture and genuine development. I hope that in the coming months we will be able to give important signals in this direction for a solid and perspective future, in the main road that can allow Italy to grow, affirming for all our boys and girls the fundamental right to quality education. I would ask that the remainder of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u22	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u25	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, a bit of history: a few years ago, the main wing of the Renzi government came from the world of school. The then secretary of the PD had promoted the so-called good school, built by making everyone speak but without listening to anyone: imposed his idea, focused substantially more than on criteria of efficiency and effectiveness, on communication, without consulting and involving the professionals, those who some straight, to avoid at least doing damage, could have suggest it to him. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] After that disastrous experience, we believed that the center-left had become aware of the multiplier effect of consensus or dissent, characteristic of the school sector. But, judging by the choices of the Government supported by Movimento 5 Stars, Democratic Party, Italy Viva-P.S.I. and Free and Equal as far as the so-called school decree is concerned, it does not seem so. How was the decree-law in question born? The first five union forces had compacted on two precise demands (in addition, of course, to the adjustment of salaries, especially of teachers). The first was that of competitions reserved to stabilize the historical precariousness, which for some categories has been waiting even for a quarter of a century to finally be able to sleep quietly (then we wonder why families do not bring children to the world). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The second request was that of regular educational and selective enabling courses (as Europe asks, otherwise there is a risk of non-recognition abroad), without which, for example, career in equal schools is precluded. They also announced the general strike on the eve of the European elections. The Count Government I dealt successfully with the renunciation of the general strike, in exchange for the green light to the reserved competitions (already present in point 22 of the Government contract of Movimento 5 Stars and League, where there was talk of a transitional phase for overcoming the chronic precariousness) and special enabling routes (the so-called PAS, already successfully tested in 2013). In the phase of conversion of the relevant decree-law we were already ready to add a series of decisive interventions for a series of other critical issues, abundantly anticipated in the specialized press. Inexplicably, however, the Movimento 5 Stars went sideways, imposing the formula of the "unless understood" and that decree never saw the light. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And the new decree-law launched by the Count-bis, instead of stretching the hand to the experienced precarious, exploited for a lifetime, cancels the enabling paths and makes the competitions reserved a terno to the lot that risks to leave at home - that in Italy at a certain age is equivalent to the civil death for the difficulties of finding another occupation - tens of thousands of historical precarious, that is, those for whom such contests had been thought, convincing - as said - the unions to accept the renunciation of the general strike. In response to the subsequent heated protests of the interested groups, as well as of the unions, the Government still had the possibility to limit the damage of what was approved to the House. In fact, at the Senate we presented a series of corrective proposals, which to a large extent would have reported the decree on the line agreed with the union forces. It seems, however, that respect for commitments with organizations representing more than 90% of the members, in an area that is the most trade unionized in absolute with two out of three members, is not among the priorities of the current majority constituted by Movimento 5 Stars, Democratic Party, Italy Viva and Liberi and Equal. From the majority in the Commission it has reached the dry point of any correction to the text approved in the House, since from our point of view it represents for the world of school precarious to whom in the electoral campaign it had instead made miraculous promises, the political suicide of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But above all it represents the final loss of credibility in this sector of the PD, which is now ready to flatten itself on any choice of triggers, in order not to give the citizens the floor for the terror of its Members not to return to Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Instead of investing in the future, we stick to the armchairs, showing in this case too that we have learned nothing from previous experiences; the last Prodi Government, which claimed to stand on the margin of a single vote, was heavily punished in the next election. So politics prepares to give nights of nightmares for Christmas and other parties to those who were expecting instead finally listen. The market for courses and publications preparatory to competitions will be thrilled, but there is no trace of the long-awaited interventions of tens of thousands of precarious and "hidden" students of the school. There is no specific path to the achievement of the teaching qualification dedicated to teachers with adequate professional experience. There is no trace of the specialization course for the teaching of support in schools of every order and grade dedicated specifically to those who are in service, in any capacity and legitimately, on places of support of primary, secondary and childhood without being in possession of the qualification of specialization. There is no trace of the programming of the ordinary academic path in order to achieve the qualification, an indispensable tool for the teaching provided by European legislation as well as by the national one. There is no trace of a real competition reserved for teachers of religion, waiting to take part even for more than twenty years. There is no trace of our proposals to limit the damage caused by delays in the transitional secondary aid. There is no trace of the ordinary contest, nor of the places that should be dedicated to it. The emergency of schools without Director of General and Administrative Services (DSGA) is not adequately addressed and the commitments made regarding so-called DSGAs are not met. Finally, there is no provision that solves the problem of primary school teachers with a master's degree before 2001/2002 dismissed following final judgments but not included in the number of participants in the extraordinary competition held in 2018 pursuant to the provisions contained in the so-called Dignity Decree. Dear colleagues of the M5S, the PD, Italy Viva and LEU, the refusal of listening, superficiality, the arrogance to legislate without having found the time to deepen the individual issues in the conviction of already knowing everything, are mistakes that in an articulated sector such as that of education you pay and pay dearly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Whether you present yourself as the (false) heirs of the old left-wing tradition in defense of the weak classes and in general of the popular classes, or calling yourself "citizens" to confuse ideas, you have probably missed the last opportunity to show attention to the desperate cry of those who only ask not to end up on the margins of society after giving the school their best years. The League for its part will continue to listen to and propose practical and common sense solutions, such as those that you did not want to consider on this occasion because you are better and more beautiful. It is a pity, however, that no one recognizes it anymore, according to the polls. I wish the school's precarious people a good holiday, hoping that the opportunity will soon come to cancel the ugly gift you have given them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I find it hard to wish a happy holiday to those responsible for yet another mess demanding to legislate alone in an area that has proven to be unfamiliar. The vote of the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione to the conversion into law of a decree-law that from save-precari has become "kill-precari" can only be contrary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u28	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I believe that in order to reason with the measure we are debating today, we should put it in the context of where it will be dropped. We have commented in this House, not long ago, on the results of the INVALSI tests and the data were not at all comforting, for those who imagine that the power of the coming nations depends on the awareness and knowledge of the younger generations. What struck me the most is that 35 percent of the eighth-grade students are not able to understand the meaning of a written text (within their reach, of course); 35 percent is not little. The data of the OECD PISA report have just come out and are even more alarming than the INVALSI ones: only one 15-year-old Italian in twenty can distinguish facts from opinions in a written text, only one in four can understand what is the main idea of a written text (obviously the summaries that used to be done in the school are no longer done and perhaps it would be advisable to start doing them again). Wrong would be to think of filling this immense vacuum by using new technologies, this is my personal idea, but I believe - from what I read - that if this Government thinks that investing in digital boards and Ipads can solve the problem, the solution will be the worst of evils and will aggravate the problem. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] As my colleagues in the 7th Commission know, because we are doing a cognitive survey on this issue, there is not a single scientific study that shows that the quality of student learning improves with the new technologies, on the contrary there are many that demonstrate exactly the opposite. Italy is the European state that - apart from Greece - spends less on public education, school leaving is 14% in the North and 20% in the South; in short, it is clear that we have a national emergency. We fill our mouths in this House and outside, more or less all, of a now stale and abused rhetoric (young people are the future, the future depends on young people); well if young people are so misguided, the future of this country will obviously not be radiant. And what does this government do to address this essential problem? Absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] From our point of view, the solution is a word, perhaps a little forgotten: "meritocracy." [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The only way to deal with the issue would be to distinguish between the many good and deserving teachers, who deserve to earn more than they earn, and the other teachers, perhaps deserving but not good. It is not enough to know how to teach: you also have to know how to transmit your knowledge, you have to have an empathic ability, you have to have a method, you have to have qualities that not everyone has and that no one heads in the teaching body of our schools. Minister Fioramonti, then, who had solemnly announced 100 euros more in pay for all teachers, not only evidently told a lie, but had made, from our point of view, a profound cultural error. He told a lie because those 100 euros never arrived (as the billion for scientific research and university never came). [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] Minister Fioramonti had said that he would resign if this money had not been allocated by the Government: the money was not allocated, in this measure there is no trace of it, I see that Minister Fioramonti is absent and I imagine he went up to the Quirinale to resign, I see no other explanation to justify his absence. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] From our point of view, however, the error was a method: 100 euros more to everyone does not solve the problem. It would have been better to provide 200 euros for the deserving; we need to find a way to encourage merit. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There are only two sectors in the public administration where individual merit has nothing - but nothing - to do with the careers of individuals: school and the judiciary, two areas essential for democratic life, for the future and for the present of the nation. And, then, until we pose this problem, until we try to fill this immense emptiness, we can continue to reason about the future, about young people, but they will be inexorably empty and sterile reasonings. The substance was discussed by many of my fellow Members during the general debate. This had to be at least an opportunity to fill organic plants and give stability to the many, too many, categories that are agitated within the world of the school, waiting - often for a life - for the conditions to be created in order to really enter it. Colleagues, let us be honest: on school everyone has faults, who more, who less: the faults are not equally distributed. The truth is that the school policies of governments, of all governments more or less, have always been thought of as directed to teachers, never to students. This is because teachers are organized, they are unionized; they vote as teachers, as is natural. So instead of worrying (or worrying) about solving the problem of the quality of our school offerings and the quality of the culture and critical spirit of our young people, we are concerned to support and calm down the many categories that the world of school consists of. It is not a good method, it is not a method that indicates a particular sensitivity to the national interest. It is certainly the method - the only one - used by this Government, but failing the objective, because as in this measure we find that entire categories that legitimately had acquired rights to enter the world of school remain structurally excluded. So, to use a terminology dear friends triggers, I believe that this provision will go to history as the decree-law sweep-precarious. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There is no point in recapitulating, point by point. There are many issues. Consider the case of the directors of the general administrative services, first admitted to the competition with the exception of the degree, then excluded because they did not have the degree: they are 40 of the current DSGA; There are many, completely cut off from the prospect of being able to legitimately get into the world of school. Again, teachers with a master's degree before 2001-2002: 7,000 teachers who were denied the right to participate in the competition (7,000 people inexorably abandoned to themselves); then, teachers of religion. In short, the categories affected (and abandoned) by this measure are many, too many; many of my colleagues have already mentioned them in general debate, so it seems unnecessary to repeat, point by point, category by category. Perhaps, instead, it would be useful to recall a point that is essential for us, namely the treatment of equal schools. Colleagues, it has been since 2000 that what has always seemed obvious to us has been formally recognized, namely that the Italian school system walks on two legs, not on one leg: the state one and the equal one, legs that should be equally long and equally tonic, let's say so. No, it is not; this government also favours state school by harming peer school. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The extraordinary competition for teachers of peer schools is shaded like snow in the sun. Why? You don't know. Perhaps - I suppose - for ideological prejudice, I see no other explanation. But it is an old ideology, stale; an ideology that does not return to numbers. Each student costs the State, in the state school, 6,400 euros; the same student, in the peer school, costs just over 500 euros. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The saving for the State is enormous and that is why we have always proposed, even in this circumstance, the school bonus, to leave, from a point of view of trivial liberal common sense, free families to decide how and where to enroll their children. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This would not have any higher costs for the State, on the contrary, would lead to savings and, together with the principle of standard costs, would establish a principle that I believe is in everyone's interest: that of freedom of choice. On the other hand, in this case too, because of ideological fury or at least because of diversity of cultural approach, the choice was another one. It is therefore clear to me that, for all this series of reasons and facts, Forza Italia cannot vote in favour. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u31	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a measure that may not be discussed on TV and in the newspapers. Yet it is a text that positively affects the lives of so many people, indeed, all Italians, because the public school and the education of our children are issues that affect everyone indiscriminately, because from there passes the present and the future of our country. Let us not hide, colleagues, that this decree-law had a troubled genesis: undertaken by the previous Government, at the initiative of Minister Bussetti, has undergone numerous transformations with the new majority, eventually becoming a perhaps more technical than political response to the stratified situations of the historical precariousness, however very important in the primary interest of protecting the development of the public education system. The Italian school has been transformed in the last twenty years into a company that produces elements useful to the market, no more aware citizens, no more students with solid cultural bases that can move in a world in continuous evolution, with full critical awareness. Gradually, the constitutional paradigm of the public school has suffered blows that have undermined its foundations. These blows have been given to the quality of the training offer, also through wrong investment policies, which have reduced resources for the extracurricular activities of teachers, disoriented by the continuous change of recruitment systems, by regulatory interventions that have thrown into chaos the management of schools. The decree-law under consideration wants to give a response to years of failed promises and wrong policies compared to the real problems of the school. The demands of workers and stakeholders must necessarily be compatible with the needs of the good performance of the national education system, otherwise this measure would also be yet another boomerang that would permanently cancel the rights of students and families. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There were those who were not careful to deceive each one of them to be right, agreeing to the demands of all, riding the wave of demagogy and blowing on the fire to throw discredit on a work that had to satisfy, instead, many other legitimate expectations. Parliament is not a supermarket, where the customer is always right and the consent is traded with a few amendments, but it is a place to decide on the basis of the interest of an entire nation! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To this end, we have included in the text measures that simplify the procedures for recruiting precarious persons with three years of service. We have focused on the enhancement of the precariousness by not sacrificing the quality of the school, with fast and objective competitive procedures, to give continuity of teaching to students and stability to 48,000 teachers, whom we will assume from 1 September 2020. Here is the real news that should be the focus of all public debates: there will be almost 50,000 teachers in 2020. But not only that: there are many other rules contained in this text. I think of free or reduced school buses for children. I think about the fast call, which will allow you to hire teachers to cover places that remain empty every year and that usually go to supplement. In this way, we will give the winners, the candidates in the rankings and the eligible candidates the opportunity to move, if they wish, to other regions in order to be recruited, as long as they guarantee the continuity of teaching. But I am also thinking of the rules on innovative teaching and those for the stabilization of school workers. It is clear that with this measure, which has led to an important commitment from the Education Commission, our fundamental institutional task has certainly not been completed: we will monitor and verify that all the measures we are about to take are satisfactory, and we will ensure that any corrective action is taken if this is not the case. Thus, this legislative forecast makes it possible to make many progress towards strengthening the role of the school over the past few years, but many will still have to do so. Above all, it must seek space with a view to social inclusion, in full respect of the principles set out in Articles 3 and 34 of the Constitution. In the world that dreams and strives to achieve the Movimento 5 Stars school is and must be a founding value of democracy. The great jurist Piero Calamandrei knew very well the role of school education and culture. He loved using a metaphor to define the ideal concept that supported his thinking. School is like blood, he said. It is an essential element of the constitutional body. Without public school, which must come before private school, there is no point in talking about democracy. Let us remember his words: If a comparison were to be made between the constitutional organism and the human organism, it should be said that the school corresponds to those organs which have the function of creating blood in the human organism. Therefore, although we do not have with us all the media clamor of the past days and without being chased by the wheelchair of the information of the "kilometer," we are called to discuss and to give realization to a measure of great importance for the future of all of us. We are here to vote in favour and convert this decree into law and, therefore, we are here to give blood to our democracy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and provide the future of our children and grandchildren with a suitable and prepared teaching class. It is in this spirit that we have come to the definition of this final text. It is in keeping with this improcrastinable necessity that the Senate Group Movimento 5 Stars, animated by the spirit of the protection of rights and disadvantaged groups, declares its vote in favour of the measure, because the battle for the rights of the forgotten must always be our lighthouse in the storm. Even when the critiques and complaints pretentious and in bad faith rain on our head, we must not lose sight of our goals and the cries of despair of so many Italians who ask us to do something for them, to do something to redeem them for dark years in which school, education and culture have been seen as a burden, a burden and not as a substantial lever of development and innovation aimed at producing growth and cultural wealth. 10:46 a.m. (Angrisani followed). President, you will allow me a minute to close by reminding a person who too often the Italian mainstream media forgets with too much superficiality: the little big Malala, the Pakistani girl who drew equations on her hands with henna and who, in order to study, risked dying because the Taliban shot her in the head on the street of the school while she was with her companions. Malala survived the attack and won the Nobel Peace Prize two years later. According to the Nobel Committee, Malala represented all the teachers and students in the world, but above all she represented in full the fight against the oppression of children and young people and the fight for all children's rights to education. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I close with his splendid words to convey his own strength and to set an example for all teachers and students. These are words that touched my soul and that as a teacher I will never forget: I don't care that I have to sit on the floor at school. All I want is education and I'm not afraid of anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u32	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1633, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 126, 29 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Perilli, De Petris, Marcucci, Salvini, Patuanelli, Pharaoh and Rossomando. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Paroli is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Paroli. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 11.19 a.m. - at 11.19 a.m.) - 11.26 a.m.). The senators answered: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Inizi, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Argelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Giaco, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fedeli, Fedeli, Felimomo, Di Ferrara, Lico, Di Nicola, Ferrari, Flori, Donno, Dragoni Senators say no: Aimi, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Barachini, Barbaro, Barboni, Battistoni, Bergesio, Berutti, Bongiorno, Bonino, Borghesi, Bossi Simone, Brazzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Ciriani, Corti Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Faggi, Fantetti, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Floris, Frigolent, Fusco Gallone, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannone, Modena, Mowobi La Pietra, Lonardo, Lucidi, Lunesu Malan, Mallegni, Marin, Martelli, Martini, Masini, Messina Alfredo, Minato, Modeno, Modena, Moles, Moles, Moles, Moles, Piano PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1633, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 126, 29 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 282 Senators voting 281 Majority 141 Favorables 160 Contrari 121]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 126.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-178.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 8 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 11.44 p.m.)
