ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u4	I greet on behalf of the Assembly a representation of entrepreneurs and members of the Provincial Council of the Chinese city of Changshu, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u7	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure. Some facts of yesterday's chronicle with potentially very serious implications require us to ask for a definitive and essential clarification to protect this House. As it is now known, the website "Buzzfeed" has published the recording of a secret meeting held at the Hotel Metropole in Moscow where representatives of the League and men of the Kremlin would meet, with the aim of figuring out the way to the party of the Italian Minister of Interior and vice-premier Matteo Salvini tens of millions of dollars. The Minister of the Interior was not present, but just the day before he said that sanctions against Moscow are socially, economically and culturally insane. The site "Buzzfeed" could not identify the Russians present, but claims that they are high exponents who say they hope for the green light by Pligin, an influential member of President Putin's own party. In the published audio clips it is also felt that the participants support the importance of the operation to help the League, in particular during the election campaign for European consultations. Several times the will to change Europe is affirmed, and it is said that a new Europe must be closer to Russia. Mr President, that is the point. These facts are not new to the Senate. Three questions, two by Senator Parrini and one by Senator Stefano, between February and May this year treated the links between people close to the Interior Minister and the League and important Russian leaders linked to President Putin's party. One of the three even asked for information on the sale of a substantial quantity of fuel to an Italian company by an oil company and the potential link with the financing of the election campaign of the League for the European elections. These three questions concerned national security, the independence of our country from those which appear as unacceptable external conditioning. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , the guarantee of free elections and the credibility of the institutions; yet, as you are well aware, these questions have not been published by the Presidency, because according to the new directive on the eligibility criteria for acts of inspection union it would no longer be possible to ask the Government for enlightenment on the activities of political parties. Mr President, what is the perimeter of the political parties' activities in the light of such serious facts? What are the tools available to the senators of the Republic to exercise control over the work of the Government? When there can even be, as can be seen from these last facts, national security, how can one think that it holds such a bureaucratic and restrictive interpretation for senators? Let us be honest: it is an exception when the activity of a minister is not connected to that of the party of which he is political leader and exponent, not the opposite and we all know it. I wonder: do we still have, or do not have, as the fundamental objective of this institution, the search for truth in the interests of the country? Do we or do we not have the right to ask the government's political position on a particular issue, in particular? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, do you know the precise date - and you of course know that - of the new restrictive directive on inspection union acts? On 11 September 2018. Do you know what happened in this House just a few weeks earlier, on 26 July? It happened that there was the question time in which the Minister of the Interior replied on the serious affair of the seizure to the League of the famous 49 million euros. I say clearly that we cannot argue that it was precisely that question time that led the Presidency to deny us the right to investigate from that moment on. I will tell you more: we are not interested in thinking badly, but we are interested - and know that the Democratic Party will go through with all possible parliamentary and political means - that Italy is protected and that the Senate is the first institution to do so! [[Applause from the PD Group. Exchange of comments between PD and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u8	Talk to me, Senator Ferrari. I'll get it. There's no need for that! [[Comments of Senator Ferrari]] In the meantime, I don't understand when you don't speak on the microphone. I'll answer that. You are referring to three questions which I have in mind. [[Comments from the Group from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] STEFANO (PD). Mr. President, look who's talking there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't know what to look at. Tell me what to look at. I was saying, Senator Ferrari, that you are referring to three questions that I did not admit. Therefore, they were not published simply because they were inadmissible. [[Comments from the PD Group]] They were inadmissible. Mr Marcucci (PD). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I let you talk, even though I didn't share anything Senator Ferrari said. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group]] Mr Ferrari (PD). This is serious, you must be the guarantor of the institution. MIRABELLI (PD). But you must be a President of guarantee! BELLANOVA (PD). But how dare you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Respect is about listening, knowing how to listen. Senator Parrini, please sit down and let me finish. Senator Ferrari addressed the Presidency, lamenting the failure to publish three questions. On this, I replied, even in writing, because you wrote me two or three letters. I replied by stating the reasons why I denied eligibility and, therefore, the publication. The reasons are as follows. You said something about the perimeter inside which I'm moving. Now, apart from the consideration that my decisions are unappellable, I have responded equally, justifying and saying that the Senate cannot be the place of debate that concerns journalistic gossip. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Ferrari (PD). But what gossip? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency can simply admit... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Let me finish talking! You have to be polite and let me finish talking. I have admitted all the questions, including those which referred to the League, which concerned proven facts. Here we are not in a place where we can freely discuss issues that have no probative basis. Here we have to talk about facts that have a justification. Mr Verducci (PD). What are you talking about? Mr Marcucci (PD). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Marcucci, Senator Ferrari has already spoken as Chief of Staff. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. Senator Marcucci, I'm finishing my conversation. Have the goodness and education to let me finish talking. BELLANOVA (PD). Stay calm. Mr Marcucci (PD). All right, we get it. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). What are you saying? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Here have been used words that I value... [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] If I can't talk, I'll shut up and start the general discussion. Here in the Senate we have always given rise to all the discussions that have taken place and all the questions have been admitted on facts that have probative basis. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'A groups]] It's inadmissible. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] that we can reduce this high House to speeches that emerge from so-called journalistic investigations. [[Comments of Senator Laus]] The questions, your questions always use - because I have read them all, one by one - the conditional: where it would seem... Mr Ferrari (PD). So? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It would seem that it refers to facts that had no justification. This remains unacceptable to me. De hoc satis. Mr Marcucci (PD). I would ask you to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ferrari has already spoken on the order of business on behalf of his Group. The next item is... [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Let me talk, please! [[Vivacious protests by Senators Mirabelli and Verducci]] MIRABELLI (PD). You must be a President of Warranty! Mr Verducci (PD). Let him talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not allow anyone, not even you, to say that I am not a President of guarantee. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] In this House, I have given the guarantee... [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If you don't stop yelling, stop yelling. It's respect for everyone. The guarantee President tells you that President Rossomando was here this morning and I had to be outside and the guarantee President tells you that in order to allow President Rossomando to vote on the measure in our examination, I postponed the commitment I had outside. Mr Laus (PD). What's that got to do with anything? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That means being President of Warranty. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Marcucci repeatedly asks to intervene]] President Marcucci should speak quickly because he has already spoken on his behalf, on the order of business, Senator Ferrari; otherwise, under the Rules of Procedure, as you well know, he should have spoken at the end of the sitting. Let us act quickly, because we have already been allowed to intervene. As I said, Senator Ferrari has already spoken in his name and on his behalf as the Parent Company and you know very well that otherwise he should have spoken at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Ferrari, on behalf of the Group, has pointed out an issue which, from our point of view, but also from the point of view of the world political press, is of absolute importance. We also report, including today's answers, on certain acts and attitudes that have taken place in recent months, starting from the recent past (the attitude of President Calderoli towards the Group), to his attitude on these questions, in particular Senator Parrini, who, in our opinion, are legitimate. The impression we have is that the presidency of this Senate - I say it with absolute tranquility, but with great rigour - wants to prevent us from speaking, deepening and having information in the interest of the country [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] on what a majority party and the Vice Premier party are combining and has combined, even with criminal relevance. She's trying to stop us. This is the place of democracy, transparency, information and debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and the Senate Presidency, in a determined and scientific way, wants to prevent the Democratic Party from simply knowing the truth. But, President, the peace of mind, the colleagues of the North League applauded you enthusiastically. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u10	I don't answer because his words are self-explanatory. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Lively comments from the PD Group]] I do not allow anyone to question my third-party status. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] I'm with her! (Senator Marcucci indicates the benches of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't let anyone. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] When the facts are of criminal relevance, they will be discussed here, period. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). It is a matter of political importance! [[Comments from PD and Mixed Groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't allow anyone to question... [[Comments from PD and Mixed Groups.]] Mr Verducci (PD). These facts are of political importance! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't let anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 214-515-805-B, already approved, in first resolution, by the Senate, in a text resulting from the unification of the draft Constitutional Act of initiative of Senators Quagliariello; Mr Calderoli and Mr Perilli; Mr Patuanelli and Mr Romeo; approved, without amendment, in first deliberation, by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and replies took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u14	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as we pointed out at first reading, we have some concerns about this measure which, in our view, does not solve a whole series of problems. This reform does not make the legislative process faster, it does not dissolve the relationship between executive and legislative power, it does not improve the quality of the relationship between elected and electorate. In our opinion, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians had to go hand in hand with a more systematic reform, which would first loosen the knot of perfect bicameralism and put the question of democratic representation more seriously. However, we know the proverb 'who too much wants nothing tightens', which is why we hope that this measure will be the first step towards a more organic reform. As regards the protection of linguistic minorities and special autonomy, the initial version of the measure would have seriously undermined the proper representation of language groups in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. In other words, there was a risk of violating the provisions of measure 111 of the Package, directly implementing the Paris International Agreement, which guarantees the participation in the parliamentary activity of representatives of the Italian and German language groups in proportion to the size of the groups themselves. The only solution was therefore in the forecast of three single-member colleges, exactly as indicated by Law No 422 of 1991; a number that was indicated as the minimum irreducible and indispensable to guarantee what is indicated by measure 111 of the Package that, let us remember, constituted the decisive step for the closure of the litigation with Austria. Thanks to the amendment approved by this Assembly, the draft law has rightly reported to three the number of elected for the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and has equalized the Autonomous Provinces to the Regions, in line with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. For this we thank the rapporteur for the measure, President Roberto Calderoli. However, there is one issue that I would like to point out to the Government and for which we ask attention: the legislative decree for the determination of the single and plurinomial colleges for the election of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, referred to in Article 3 of the law of 27 May 2019, n. 51, will have to re-determine also the single colleges for the Chamber of Deputies of the Trentino Alto Adige-Südtirol district. We hope that on this occasion the re-determination will take account of the principle of territorial continuity, homogeneity and size of the same, so that appropriate representation of the German language group will be ensured in relation to its consistency. Only in this way will an imbalance be avoided which, in addition to being harmful from the point of view of the representation of linguistic groups, would be in clear violation of Article 6 of the Constitution, which provides for the Republic to protect linguistic minorities by appropriate rules. With regard, however, to the Valle D'Aosta Region, where the French-speaking minority is present, the text of the measure does not change the current situation, keeping unchanged the same numbers of representatives for both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. The call lacks the representation of the Slovenian linguistic minority, which with this reform strongly compromises the spaces for the autonomous election of its own representative in Parliament. It is a serious limitation of the measure and we therefore ask that Parliament also devotes the attention and protection it deserves to this minority. It is with this hope that I will announce the vote in favour of the Senators of the linguistic minorities of the Group for the Autonomouss of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, after yet another no on the part of Italian citizens to yet another constitutional reform - the outcome of the referendum at the end of 2016 was not the first, as you all know - we would have expected a cautious attitude, prudent approach to constitutional reforms and intervention on constitutional arrangements. This is because for almost forty years now the Italian political class that has succeeded itself in time, even in the passage between the so-called first, second and third Republics, has had in its majority a sort of obsession - I call it - a mantra towards the Constitution: the obsession, precisely, to intervene to change. In fact, in every legislature, we have witnessed the attempt to put hand, more or less accomplished, more or less successful, to constitutional reforms, as if all the issues that have a significant impact on the situation of the country were linked to the constitutional system. Colleagues, members of the Government, rapporteur - I am addressing in particular the rapporteur - it is clear - we know perfectly well - that we are faced with a crisis that is not a passing crisis of representative democracy; a crisis of public confidence towards the elected in Parliament, but we do not think that the way to intervene on this crisis is to put the de facto hand to the Constitution and create further problems, making the crisis even worse by weakening parliamentary democracy. This is the point: all the reforms that have followed each other, and that have all done the same end, have always had the same obsession: that of modifying, entering heavily into the structure that has been left to us by the Fathers and the constituent Mothers. Again, I say this clearly: beyond the alibi that you give yourself, that is, that you intervene in a timely way on the Constitution, the approach to a constitutional revision by putting your hand only and once again to Parliament through the reduction of parliamentarians means that you too - I am sorry, for example, Senator Crimi, who together with me was a member of the Committee for the No to the referendum on the then constitutional reform of the Renzi Government, but there are also others, including Calderoli - you have the object (and this is the obsession) of parliamentary democracy. This is because you think - here is your thought, not even so veiled - that the crisis of democracy also in relation to the relationship of confidence of the citizens towards the elected is to be sought in parliamentary democracy. Once again, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians enters the heart, it is the very essence of our republican order. What's the point? The point... [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues, but that's not possible! Mr President, please call my fellow Members, because I am not in a position to speak with this constant buzz. Anyone who is not interested can go outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u18	Colleagues, please, I ask you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Colleagues, I understand that you have to discuss rubles and more, but here is a real question. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Mr President, you too are very distracted, but we are voting for another constitutional reform and there is an obsession to intervene on parliamentary democracy. How do you justify the intervention to reduce the number of Members? With the costs? Is it possible to motivate this by reducing costs? We all know that democracy has its costs and it would be right to take this into account, because democracy costs, and not only in economic terms. However, you cannot start from this point of view. Do you motivate it with efficiency? We have shown, right here in the Senate, that action can be taken to speed up and make Parliament's work more efficient, through the amendments to the parliamentary regulations - and, if the new Rules of Procedure are applied to the full, this happens - and we expect the House of Deputies to do the same. We do not, however, because there is an obsession with putting our hands on parliamentary democracy. What was the real point about efficiency that you didn't have the courage - or rather, you didn't have the will, because that's good for you - to face? The real point is what has happened in all these years, because the obsession with putting a hand in the constitutional order has led to a further, continuous, constant and pervicacious weakening of Parliament. This is the real crux of the crisis, which will also reverberate, heavily, in the relationship between citizens and Parliament. Parliament, and therefore the legislative power, has been constantly and pervicaciously weakened in recent years, as has the power of individual parliamentarians towards their own groups and parties and that of Parliament towards the Executive. The obsession that I was talking about was always to strengthen and verticalize power in the hands of the Executive, and this has continued constantly, with the urgent decrees, which are not really urgent; with the fact that most of the parliamentary activity we carry out does not concern the parliamentary legislative initiative, but consists in intervening continuously to convert decrees-laws and give opinions on acts of the Government, with the related issues of trust. That is the point and that is what has happened in recent years, and precisely on this point, Mr Fraccaro, we should have intervened with determination, in order to give strength to Parliament and, therefore, to the essence of our republican structure and parliamentary democracy. This would have meant and - in our opinion - also means intervening to rebuild and strengthen an even stronger link between citizens and elected. On the other hand, you have taken the whole idea that, in order to restore efficiency and reduce costs, it is necessary to intervene exclusively on the reduction of the number of Members. We would have expected, especially from the Movimento 5 Stars, that other needs would begin to be elaborated, certainly by intervening on the Constitution, on some fundamental issues - in my opinion - that need a strong update today, which concerns precisely the plan of values. We discussed water in the decree-law on growth, but it was urgent and it is increasingly necessary to intervene for the protection in constitution of common goods. Once again yesterday we saw disasters caused by climate change: how can we fail to understand that intervening on the Constitution, in order to give even more strength to these issues, means, for example, clarifying, in Article 9 of our Constitution, what does the protection of the environment and biodiversity mean and not relying solely on the extensive interpretation of the Constitutional Court? These were the priority issues. I would also like to say one more thing: you did not want to tackle together today the issue of reducing the number of Members of Parliament with the issue of the referendum and the law of popular initiative. The instruments of participatory democracy are essential in order to contribute to the strengthening of representative democracy, not to be opposed to it. This was to happen and we will see how the whole issue of the referendum will end. We still hope that significant improvements can be made, because the objective must be to strengthen the instruments, so that they can in turn strengthen representative democracy. But, in order to do this, we can no longer continue on the path of pretending nothing and consenting to weakening, to fully reduce the legislative power to an ancillary power over executive power. As has also been seen in the debate just now, it seems that Members no longer have the opportunity to speak, even though we are called 'Parliament', or to put questions. The real question, in order to give strength and really redefine the essence of democracy, is to intervene to restore power and power to Parliament, to ensure that the balance of powers continues to be the very essence of our democratic system. For all these reasons, you have not convinced us with your arguments about cost reduction and efficiency. For these reasons, we are going to stand in the way of this reform and - as we did at first reading - we are going to vote 'no' to the reduction in the number of Members. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u22	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this draft Constitutional Reform Act, as we have already announced during the debate, as our President has already said, and as we have done in previous readings. We will do so because we believe that this is the way the voters have indicated to us and because it belongs to the political history of the right and the centre-right the intention - alas, always failed - to reduce the number of Members. The reduction in the number of MEPs was contained in the constitutional reform of 2005-2006, which was then rejected by the confirmed referendum. We believe that a reduction is reasonable and rational, since the issue of democratic and territorial representation is certainly very important and it is right to stress that. But it is equally honest to remember that, in recent decades, there has been an increasingly strong regionalism in Italy, so much so that today we are still debating giving more powers and greater autonomy to the regions. In the meantime, Parliament has deliberately stripped itself of certain powers, which have been assigned to regional territorial bodies, with shared legislative power and, as far as the Special Statutes are concerned, which are constitutional laws, even giving way to primary powers. So the picture, from the point of view of the ability to represent the territories in Parliament and in the local authorities, has radically changed in recent years. That is why a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament can be included among the reasonable proposals and consistent with what we have said over the last few decades. Having said that, which is necessary, it must also be said that what we are going to vote on is not the proposal that we would have written if we had the numbers to do it ourselves. There is no doubt that this proposal is a proposal with many shortcomings and problems, which have not been resolved at all and which we will try to explain once again. The first is that the Constitution cannot be changed by acting only on the number of representatives. Unfortunately, there is no overall picture of reforms; there is no reference - we would have done so - to the transformation of the parliamentary structure into a presidential structure, in our opinion with the direct election of the President of the Republic or the Executive. There is no reference to a modification of the perfect bicameralism between the Chamber and the Senate, which the reduction in the number of parliamentarians makes even more urgent and necessary; it is missing - this is resounding, and I address above all to the rapporteurs and proposers of the bill under consideration - the cancellation of that nineteenth-century heritage represented by the senators for life. We do not understand why, once the experience of the current senators for life has been exhausted, we must think about naming others. While the presence of the elect is reduced, a nineteenth-century legacy continues to be kept alive that no longer makes any sense. It remains - it is a serious problem also from the technical point of view - the forecast of the election of the Senate on a regional basis. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament makes political participation in the political debate of the smaller forces objectively difficult, but I fear that, without a somewhat more intelligent and forward-looking electoral framework, there will also be problems of stability in the electoral framework and related electoral laws. In fact - in my humble opinion - such a high automatic barrier risks making the homogeneity between the electoral consensus expressed in the House and that expressed in the Senate difficult. This is a problem which we already have today and which we are in danger of seeing further worsening tomorrow. This is because the right and reasonable reduction in the number of parliamentarians had to be made more cum wheat salt, while it was done using the hundreds of units as a measure. However, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are not affected by numbers of 100, 200 or 300. A somewhat more refined, in-depth and analytical reasoning should have been carried out, while the desire to amaze with the full numbers and the hundreds prevailed (200, 300, 450). This probably meets the criteria of propaganda and ease of communication, but not the criteria of rationality and efficiency of the institutions. The main question underlying everything we are thinking about and voting on in the last few days and hours is: what is the plan that certainly have those who, first, have brought this reform to the attention of the Chambers? If the will is to streamline and speed up the operation of state and chamber equipment, we are naturally in favour. On the other hand, if - as unfortunately can be seen from the speeches of some Members heard yesterday and in recent days - the will, not even so hidden, is to be a prologue to a transformation of parliamentary democracy into a sort of simulacrum of direct democracy, which I call Orwellian, then we do not agree at all. Let it be clear that our vote has radically different motives from those of other Members who will vote equally in favour. We do not want a remote-controlled and remote-managed democracy. We don't think one is worth one if in fact no one is worth anything. We do not believe that it is useful for a Parliament whose members are useful and necessary only to the extent that they are interchangeable with each other, until they arrive at the draw of the Members of Parliament, because it is so important not for the quality of the people, their history, their credibility, their roots and their personal consent created with the history of one life, but only for one to replace the other at any time and be easily tame or blackmailable. The problem of the ruling class of this country, evoked yesterday by some colleagues, is serious and cannot be solved with a click or algorithm. I would like to put this issue to the attention of my colleagues, especially the majority. In recent history and news, the Italian people have always punctually committed themselves to punishing and mocking those who have used such tools and measures to make it a simple and sometimes trivial political propaganda. The subject is relevant and the direction is right, but it is difficult to make only an electoral flag, because then people notice it and punctually punish those who thought they were getting a profit from electoral or constitutional reforms that are muddy or gross. This is an important and useful step, but it cannot be the only one and cannot be isolated. It is said, colleagues, in the corridors - and the voice of the corridors is the voice of God, because it is the voice of the people - that the haste with which, despite our appeals, you want to vote today the draft constitutional law under consideration stems from the fact that, especially for the Government, the final passage in fourth reading to the House is the assurance of the life of this legislature, which is a rather ironic and paradoxical reading of many announced revolutions, especially from the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars. So we make the revolution, but for the effects we proceed very calmly. I do not know whether this is true or not, it is likely and we will see it very soon. Finally, I would like to reassure my colleagues in the Democratic Party, who spoke out yesterday and said that our vote preludes a new majority, that there is no new majority. We remain where we were, to make our patriotic opposition and not preliminary. There was no negotiation, there was no exchange, because there was never any meeting with anyone to ask for anything in return. Our vote is in favour simply because it is what we promised our electorate in the election campaign and because it is what belongs to our political history. Nothing more and nothing less. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] STEFANO (PD). Excusatio non petita.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u25	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, we are about to vote on an amendment to the Constitution which reduces the number of Members and I, announcing the Democratic Party's vote against, will try to give this measure a political reading, without going after the vulgarity of those who want the cut of Members to reduce the costs of politics. This morning, Mr Di Maio said 'We're sending a lot of them home, 345 seats less. Now knowingly confusing the cost of bad politics with the economic necessities vital to the survival of all democracies is not only falsehood, but it is also a very politically vulgar thing. We know that it will certainly not be the reduction in the number of senators and Members who will be able to save a sick democracy like ours. So I would like to address you, Mr President, with a view to the future of the country, and I would like to say at once that a calm debate in this House on the conditions of our democracy would have been much more useful today, which is the big issue that should be troubling us. For some time now, Parliament has no longer been called into wide-ranging debates on the major issues that are disturbing the country, but today it is really too close to a democratic collapse, even for a lazy Parliament like ours. And it certainly cannot be said that the clear signs of decline have been lacking. Thirty years of expropriation of parliamentary legislative power by governments of all colors, including the yellow-green, Governments that self-attribute the role of legislators and use uninterruptedly the decrees law instead of ordinary laws; thirty years of studies, debates, academic research, powerful parliamentary attempts to modify our institutional structure, all resolved in sound failures, with parliamentary or referendum rejections. In Parliament, in doctrine, in public opinion, the reduction in the number of Members has always been widely shared, even by me, but only as a complement to wider reforms. Now the political context is very different from just a few years ago when we lived in a climate of great reforms. Today it is clear that the government and the majority of the number of parliamentarians is not used to revive democracy and strengthen Parliament, but it is a shortcut to weaken them, with the retrothink that fewer Members and less senators, from the time of the formation of the electoral lists, are better controllable and therefore more functional to a political project that, step by step, is showing its peronist face. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In a difficult time like what we are experiencing when all the predictions are jumping and what seemed impossible before now comes true, the most serious, most dangerous and most risky issue is the systematic attack that the doctrines and political movements are leading to parliamentary democracy, disrupting its character and changing its nature. It is an attack that affects the whole West and affects to varying degrees ancient and strong democracies such as the American one or the British one and more recent and weaker democracies like the Italian one. On the scale of the consequences of Parliament's decline, we must understand each other. Parliament's centrality is a more serious issue than the very serious migrations, the economic crisis, school, infrastructure and even economic and social development. They are all very serious problems. It will take time, but it is all a crisis that with the will, intelligence and work of men can be resolved. On the other hand, Parliament's impotence is the immediate danger that we need to fear, because it creates irreversible risks that no democracy will ever be able to control. As history teaches, not only contemporary history, but also modern and ancient history, without a worldwide grid of strong democracies, the nations that destroy their parliaments end up at the mercy of nationalism and authoritarian regimes and for the world there is only one tragic destiny: war. I use the word war with great trembling, President, but I believe that, when the post is so high, respect for the mandate of us senators commits us to say frankly, as we see them, even the things we do not like. And we all see that nationalism is synonymous with the selfishness of nations, just as we see that authoritarian regimes are those where one person commands all others. The mixture between nationalism and authoritarianism has always denied peace, it has always made it impossible. It has always led, inevitably and fatally, to war. It's not us who say that, it's the story of all time. [[Brusio]] President, it is very difficult to speak in this House. I would ask you to call this House to at least a verbal composure, because it is impossible to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u26	The presidency is here.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u27	[[Comments from the PD Group]] ZANDA (PD). I believe that many of us know what the concrete political facts are that make us fear for our democracy and what the context behind the reduction in the number of Members shows us the will to strike at Parliament. The elementary character that favours the spread of authoritarianism in the ganglia of society, among the people, the soup of culture of every form of peronism, is the use of a degraded language, made of insults, turbulent; the fact of a grudge that I must call sexist - even if someone does not like this word - of threats, psychological violence, of ridicule of the values of the Constitution and the powers of the State. There is a connection between the words used by the government and its idea of democracy. Democracy is a very delicate system and those who govern have a duty to work to consolidate its foundations, not to shake it with violent words that hurt you more than so many acts of bad government. Language is a great revealer of our thinking and shows what, even though we think of it, we would like it to remain secret. The language that has appeared in all the political chronicles for more than a year also says a lot about the personality of the two men who today orient, indeed dominate, the Italian political scene: the two Vice Presidents of the Council and I repeat: of both Vice Presidents. To constantly quarrel with each other as two comaries to the market; to delight the magistrates, the high administration of the State and the Bank of Italy; to insult Carola Rackete; to provoke the European Union and Allied countries; to wear military uniforms abusively [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; closing the ports to women, children and refugees; threatening in vain public dealers; keeping the country always on the verge of the crisis and elections, are only some escapes of a language and behaviour of those who on every occasion want to show its incompatibility with a democratic culture, of those who do not know the border between the sense of the Sato and the exversion. It is this political inculturation, this vulgarity exhibited, this drive to enshrine as much power as possible, which is the background to this debate of ours; a black background on the stage of a policy where now they even break into concrete suspicions of money from Moscow; suspicions that strike us not only for their possible effects in our internal policy, but even more for their consequences on national security. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On this point I would like to address you, Mr President. I have always been wary of the term 'President of guarantee', because the President of the Senate is just President; we would also miss that he did not guarantee minorities first of all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But I want to tell you something, because your words struck me this morning. The Senate is not a court where only criminal matters are discussed [[Applause from the PD Group]] and it is not the legislative office of the Government that executes its orders. The Senate is a political body that discusses on the basis of political positions. And I would like to point out to you that, when a senator brings to the House, before the House, facts that he considers relevant, the Senate is empowered to discuss it, regardless of the source, whether it is journalistic or even a popular voice. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today, in Parliament, the number of Members of Parliament is being reduced, but it is not the only serious danger facing our democratic system. There is also that confirmation referendum that will put Parliament in conflict with the people who elected it. There is a reform of justice that gives politics the power to indicate the crimes to be prosecuted. There is the bill on the Bank of Italy that cancels all its autonomy and puts the entire directory under the heel of the majority of Government. With a few moves the division of powers and the independent authorities are shattered; with a few moves Italy pulls itself out of the rules of Europe. Can we think that certain languages, certain decisions, certain bullies, the desire to destroy the prerogatives of Parliament, are all acts put on the spot, without an overall logic? No, the government does not want to say it, but there is a logic, and it is to wear down the cornerstones of representative democracy and to push Italy out of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Only if we understand what the final project is, can we give a serious political assessment of the reduction in the number of Members. The models of Orbán, Putin and Visegrád, together with the objective of a fake democracy, which is not directed...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u28	Senator Zanda, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u29	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, a few more words; I had a great deal of difficulty in speaking. I was saying, the models of Orbán, Putin and Visegrad, together with the objective of a fake democracy, which is not directed, but is at the service of the power stations that control the web, are in absolute sense the opposite not only of parliamentary democracy designed by our Constitution, but even of democracy tout court. I'll finish. In fact, today the Senate votes not only on the reduction in the number of Members, but also on our presence in Europe, on the centrality of Parliament, on the division of powers, on the survival of democracy. It is for this fundamental political reason that today those who want to defend Europe, Parliament, freedom of mandate, personal and secret voting, the independence of the judiciary, the value of the independent authorities, are voting for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, as the senators and senators of the Democratic Party will shortly do. [[Applause from the PD Group, many senators of whom stand. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u32	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by saying that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, which has led to a heated debate, which I would at times dare to define - if I may say so - rather than a fierce debate, which is certainly not respectful of the place, the roles or the content of the proposal under consideration. Perhaps I naively thought that this debate could be more appropriate. I listened with great interest to all the speeches made by my fellow Members both in general debate and in explanation of vote, but I had to take a step back to understand also the history of the attempt repeatedly made to revise the Constitution, especially as regards the reduction in the number of Members. What struck me so much in the debate is the continuing emphasis on the need to maintain a democratic situation which would appear, with the reduction in the number of Members and this new approach, to fail. So taking a step back, as is my custom, to try to understand things, I moved on to the constitutional reform Renzi-Boschi. I go back not to the seventies, eighties or nineties, but simply to 2014. The reform born with that bill in 2014 was aimed at overcoming the bicameralism of equality and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. That measure proposed, in particular, a reform of the Senate of the Republic whose main function would have become that of representing the territorial institutions. Basically, the number of senators would have been reduced from 315 to 100, who, except for the five appointed by the President of the Republic, would have been elected by the Regional Councils among their own members and mayors of their own territories. In essence, the Chamber of Deputies would remain the only body to exercise the function of political direction and control over the work of the Government. And that's one point. This bicameral system, therefore, surpassed that of perfect bicameralism by introducing differentiated bicameralism: the Senate would become representative only of territorial institutions; the direct popular election would therefore be replaced by a second grade election by the councilors. No longer would the senators be elected by the Italian citizens residing abroad and the term of office of the senators would be concise with that of the regional councils, from which they would be elected; moreover, the senators would have fallen if their elective office had ceased: in practice the Senate would have become a body with continuous partial renewal. This was the 2014 proposal approved without the expected majority, submitted to a referendum that resulted in a negative outcome and then the result was before everyone's eyes. This was the democracy proposed by those who today tell us that we are not democratic. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This was the proposal that wanted to be meaningful in some way. Today we have just been told that in this way we will no longer be able to represent the Italian people, because we reduce the number of parliamentarians; but according to the proposal of 2014, instead of 200 members, the Senate would have been made up of 100 members, with non-direct election of the people. [[Comments of Senator Biti]] , but with second-level election. This must be remembered. Perhaps reducing the number of Members is frightening. Sure, it's an innovation. Maybe this government is getting there. Perhaps there will be no room for everyone: patience. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Being a politician means having a passion inside, representing a territory like I do for 500,000 people. Mr Laus (PD). We don't! BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Even waving your hand in the air while talking - as I have already said - has obscene, is not beautiful, is not polite. I never do that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I do that when I say goodbye from the ship as it sails. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I say this very quietly: there will be no room for everyone; we will have to represent wider colleagues, we will have to run a little bit more here and there for the Commissions, but we are politicians, what should we do? Spend time at the buvette? No, you eat bad, too. Mr. President, we eat badly. [[Laughter.]] What should we do: smoke cigarettes? We're locked in a corner, we breathe the smoke of ourselves, it hurts us. Those who will have the opportunity to do so will run more and those who will not have the opportunity to do so will have always had an important experience and will have brought home something important for the country. Democracy also means adapting, innovating, changing, being able to do, even if this can annoy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u35	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we in Forza Italia do not accept any lessons from anyone on this subject. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Between 2003 and 2005 - and no one else can say the same - without forcing, without speeding up the time, without preventing the groups from meeting in order to be able to take decisions, we made the whole path that led in 2005 to the approval of a reform that would bring the number of Members to 518 and that of the senators to 252. We completed it; we supported the referendum in favour of which it had been requested, unfortunately the Italian people rejected it; in 2011 we voted again a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, but that reform did not succeed; in 2015 we again participated in the beginning of the reform proposed by the Renzi Government, which also proposed the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. When, however, we saw that, alongside this, there was a series of rules that we considered unacceptable, as an elected Senate did not even understand how (of course, not by the citizens), we differentiated. We have also given a signal of readiness at first reading of this measure, because we are committed to this issue from the outset and, I repeat, no one else can say the same thing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We had, however, asked at first reading that there were signs that this measure was not only demagogic, made to show that it had reached round numbers, because it is thought that otherwise the people - who believe themselves to be ox, but ox is not - do not understand. We asked for this reform to be accompanied, possibly in the same measure but also with others, by other measures that really serve the country. We have always asked for the direct election of the Head of State: forgotten. We have always asked for rules to limit the intrusiveness, also from the tax point of view, of the State. We want better discipline to delimit the powers of the Regions and the State: this too is forgotten. We want a reform that ensures the balance between powers. I would remind my colleagues that Parliament is born, not to give jobs to one hundred thousand or two hundred thousand people, but to limit the power of the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Casini]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In a humiliated and humiliated Parliament, where one boasts not to intervene in the debate on this measure, except then to say that the others are struggling (but I do not know where others have seen each other struggling), this is the only protection of the citizens compared to a Government (not the current one, but the Government in general), that wants to cross its powers and use them for personal purposes or to crush the power of citizens to propose real changes. On the other hand, not only are these useful rules not there, but we see that this measure is accompanied by something quite different. We see this wretched reform of the so-called referendum law of popular initiative, of the proposed referendum, which, in reality, is a case that does not exist in any country in the world and which would simply have the result of abolishing Parliament's legislative power and putting it in the hands of those who possess the great media. This would give time to the colleague of the League, who complained about the quality of the canteen, to give his gastronomical contribution so that the canteen of the Senate is better. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Don't worry, Senator, that with the Senate and the Parliament that you will carry out, even if the parliamentarians are less, they will have so little to do, since it will all be done elsewhere (in the chambers of the government, perhaps in Brussels, as in the case of the last financial year, in centres of great foreign financial interest or in Beijing), that there will be no more much work here. You're from the FI-BP group. Moscow! MALAN (FI-BP). Someone from my group also quotes Moscow. The budget law passed last December is a good example of streamlining the work, although Parliament was as large as it is today. And we want to simplify it further, as the rapporteur said yesterday, so much so that we must, alongside this, make reforms in order to simplify a budget approved in twenty-four hours, of course without the possibility of any modification. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Above all, the senators and Members of the majority have not been able to examine it and have had to vote on it as it is, full of mistakes. In such a situation, there is plenty of room for you to enter all sorts of filth and partisan interests, which are precisely those against which the Senate's works, which are public, represent a protection. A protection not absolute, but a protection. They are the only protection: not the written laws in the dark offices of the Ministries or Ministers or in party or coalition meetings, but the passage into the clear Parliament, before all citizens. We have other measures which are combined with this reduction in the number of Members. The representatives of the 5 Star Movement, from Casaleggio, who owns the party, to Grillo, who is the guarantor, followed by many representatives present in Parliament, say that representative democracy must be overcome. Casaleggio says that one day it will be like feudalism, a memory of the past. It may be, but it will not be a good future, because in the last century, and not only in the last century, many have tried to overcome representative democracy, in the name of the dictatorship of the proletariat, in the name of the superior race, in the name of the law of the nation, especially where, by chance, the leader represented the proletariat, the superior race and the State, but never really the people; never the real people, the people of whom an individual promotes himself as a unique and absolute representative with the power, of course, to crush all the others. On the other hand, this is the ideology that comes from the famous Rousseau, which gives its name to the platform that should, apparently, be the model of democracy. Rousseau (apart from the fact that he was the well-known pedagogue who explained to others how to educate children and then sent them to the orphanage) spoke of the general will - which is much more damaging - where the state must put in place the general will that someone decides what it is, to the detriment of all the others. However, all the others must be adapted. The fields of reeducation are not that they are born out of nothing. It is precisely from Rousseau that all this comes and it is indicative to have indicated in the platform, which is practically the real party of the Movimento 5 Stars, a character of this kind. We are therefore not excited about this arrangement and all the things that are being proposed to us. However, there is the savings, which I calculated, just as I had calculated the one deriving from the Renzi reform. It amounted to 61.5 million per year; with the Renzi reform there were about 50 million. When we were talking about the Renzi reform, both the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, they said it was stupid; so it's as stupid as 61 million, a comma-two stupidity. It's the same thing. I would remind you that the only delay in tendering for motorway concessions is 750 million - twelve years of Parliament's savings. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The only major interests that the Italian State had to commit itself to paying on the government bonds placed in these thirteen months of government are equal to 8 billion; 8 billion true that then the Italians will have to take out of interest and these eat us the first 130 years of savings on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Pharaoh and Martelli]] I also remember that in the first eleven months of the government, which are the ones on which we have the data, the public debt increased by 34 billion and something, that is, every six hours and nineteen minutes we were indebted for the sum corresponding to saving the cut in the number of parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It will therefore be more difficult to find a representative of your party on the territory, which will be ultra busy; it will be more difficult a whole series of things, but it delays the debt by six hours and nineteen minutes. After a hundred years, it will be almost two days; a remarkable thing. I would then say that does not seem to me to be sufficient justification. As far as numbers are concerned, it is not true that Italy has an enormous number of MPs in excess of other countries. The only reform proposed and voted in 2005 that would reduce Members to 518 and 252 senators, would lead us to the second European state with the lowest number of parliamentarians compared to the population. Here we want to go down much more, but we do not take into account the fact that Germany, the only country with a number of parliamentarians smaller than us than the population, is a federal state with 1800 Landlords, each of whom earns and has much more than each of the national parliamentarians in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As far as the referendum is concerned, since you are proposing it as a solution to all evils, we hope that you will propose it on this subject. It is true that he would eat the first six years of savings, but to save money he does not care for expenses, as is well known. With this reform, the Movimento 5 Stars - which from the first party a year ago came to be the third Italian party perhaps also thanks to the fact of carrying out these reforms that, apparently, the citizens do not care - would be absent, as representatives of the Senate, in five regions. The second party, with reference to the data of the European elections, the Democratic Party, would be absent in four regions. Beyond this or that party, does that sound to you? Does it seem sound to you that abroad only the first party and no one else would be represented? [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] I do not know if this really is a great progress for democracy. I conclude by saying that all this seems to me a great weapon of distraction and propaganda; it is true that the country's economy is bad, Italy is the country that grows less among all the countries of the European Union, but let us reduce the number of parliamentarians. The government puts its hands on so-called gold pensions, i.e. from 1,300 euros up, but the number of parliamentarians is cut. The government wants to get their hands on the citizens' safe deposit boxes, where citizens keep their money because they're afraid they'll steal it from them and then steal it from the state. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The government treats to put the public debt in Chinese hands, but the number of parliamentarians is cut. Senator Paragone says this morning that we are going out of the euro anyway, we will adopt the currency of Facebook and it will be a happy country, it will be a happy world. [[Senator Paragon's comments. Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Good. We are prepared to reduce the number of Members. We voted for it, but in the context of reforms that serve to give more efficiency to the institutions and to Italy, more power to the citizens and no longer power to the Internet giants, to Facebook, to the foreign governments and to the big interests that are able to assert themselves in the palaces of the Government, while here in Parliament they should do it in front of everyone. That is why we will not be taking part in the vote, in order to express our disagreement with the way in which this reform is being carried out. Italian citizens will not drink this story and understand very well that what interests and serves are improvements for the economy, for the efficiency of our country and not a punitive attitude towards Parliament, which remains the only body that really represents them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group, many senators of whom stand, and from Senator Martelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u38	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are very proud to announce to the Italians a reform of a few lines, with a very clear content: we cut 345 Members. This is a passage of epoch in the history of the Republic, because the reduction in the number of parliamentarians has been discussed in this House since the early 1980s, when some of us were just children: a debate that lasted for decades without producing any concrete results. On a couple of occasions we got close, but the citizens, wisely weighing the pros and cons, rejected with the referendum messy and dangerous revisions of our Constitution. The era of disorderly and confused reforms is over and there is no need for intervention that upsets the rules of our constitutional order. Finally, the season of clear, simple and punctual refinements of our Constitutional Charter opens with us to update it to our times and make it even more beautiful. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's start from the most significant reduction in the number of parliamentarians that has ever been proposed in our country. But we are also working on something else, starting from the decline from twenty-five to eighteen years of age in order to exercise the right to vote for the Senate: we will thus give full citizenship to a whole category of boys and girls who up to now have been able to be represented here only in half. Soon the reform of popular referendums will also come: citizens will be able to vote through referendum the laws of popular initiative. This is how we will, once and for all, overcome the hateful practice whereby the laws of popular initiative arrived in Parliament and were placed in a drawer to rot forever. The quorum of the repealing referendums will also be reduced. Again, we will close another season, when politicians called on citizens to go to the sea instead of exercising their sacred right to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All too often, citizens have seen Parliament as a self-referential place, detached from reality, unable to listen to the demands of civil society. Today we are living in a constituent legislature, which will finally give more voice to the citizens and at the same time keep Parliament's role absolutely central. Where people have invested in the participation of citizens around the world, institutions have worked better and more efficiently. That is precisely our stated objective. I do not like to insist so much on the savings that will lead to the cut of Members. Half a billion per legislature is an important sum, but - let us be clear - economic saving is not the criterion with which action is taken on the Constitution. But one thing is certain: the net cut in the costs of politics (and I am also referring to the cut in the vitality that we have already achieved) is a very powerful sign of change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is a signal that shortens the distances, sometimes sidereal, between citizens and institutions, between citizens and politicians who should represent them worthily. We have lived, and are still living, moments of severe economic crisis. Over the years, politics has demanded great sacrifices from citizens. Now it is time to show that politics also cuts its costs and reduces its expenses, as it has asked the country to do. Only in the presence of concrete signals of listening and change will citizens be able to regain full confidence in the institutions. And we are truly proud to be parliamentarians of this majority to give this tangible and unequivocal sign of closeness to our fellow citizens for the first time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this cut we basically align ourselves with European standards. We will have 600 direct elected Members of Parliament, against very similar numbers in France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom. We will move from having a Member of Parliament every 64,000 inhabitants to one in every 100,000; that too is a figure in line with European standards. In short, we will have a number of parliamentarians completely comparable to those of the major democracies of our continent. This will allow the electorate to select more accurately its representatives, who will be more recognizable in the eyes of the citizens, and therefore less subject to pressure from particular interests. So, in the final analysis, we will have representatives of the citizens who are more likely to listen to and pursue the interests of the community. We will have a more sober, more modern Parliament, which shows that it takes on the sensibilities of its citizens, including by questioning and reforming itself, starting from its numerical composition. The cut of the parliamentarians will also allow Chamber and Senate to operate more efficiently. Just one example of all: the Permanent Commissions in the House are made up of over 40 Members; I challenge anyone to say that a Parliamentary Commission needs more than 40 members in order to function properly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear, therefore, that a smaller number of Members will bring with them more efficiency and functionality in legislative work. In conclusion, Mr President, we have been debating the cut-off of Members for thirty-five years. It took the Movimento 5 Stars to the Government to get to the finish line, with excellent chances to cross the finish line and win this challenge as well. And it is not by chance that it took the 5 Star Movement to the Government: a movement born ten years ago precisely from civil society, unheard and disappointed by politics; a movement today represented in Parliament as spokesperson who maintained their identity as citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizens lent to fixed-term policy and with reduced compensation. In short, in a word, parliamentary citizens who have kept in touch with reality. Of course, we would have liked this reform to be voted on by the whole of Parliament. The premises were there because all the political forces were in favour of the cut of the parliamentarians; but when we got to the point, there were those who took off immediately and who pretended to support the cut, voting for the first step to the House and the Senate - casually before the European elections [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - and then strenuously oppose, casually once the European elections have been closed. Colleagues, the instinct of self-preservation of politicians is a terrible thing and is playing tricks on you; but we all - I remind you - have been elected to pursue the good of the citizens and not to hold on to the chair as long as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's hope at least that this self-preservation instinct of yours causes you not to consider calling the referendum on this constitutional reform; even if, all in all, it would be a great sight to see you defend your seats before the citizens; other than Renzi's popcorn! [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] It is because of all these considerations that I proudly and emotionally announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u39	I note that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, the draft constitutional law is approved, in the second resolution, if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 231 Senators voting 230 Majority 161 Favorable 180 Contrars 50]] The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups, whose senators stand up.]] 11:09 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u42	PAGE (FI-BP). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak because everyone is sure to see the images that arrived yesterday from Abruzzo, Pescara and other neighbouring centres, and I can assure you that the videos, although impressive, fail to return the drama of what has happened. The city was literally brought to its knees by a wave of bad weather, of which we had no memory, which unfortunately had been announced only with a yellow code. Wind, unusual hailstorms and a storm of water have swept Pescara and the other neighboring centers, such as Montesilvano and Francavilla to the sea, causing not only huge damage, but even about fifty wounded. I would urge your attention, sensitivity and closeness, so that the harmful effects and consequences of that genuine natural disaster, which is not foreseen in all its gravity, now have a rapid and effective response from the institutions. I am sure that, regardless of the political side, we will all be able to find the paths and solutions to meet the needs of a community, which has been severely tested, going to activate all the procedures provided for by the law, the sense of solidarity and common sense. Yesterday Pescara lived a day of passion, with continuous emergencies, flooded roads, flooded hospital, damaged cars, people looking for shelter waiting for relief and the Forces of Order. All available means have been put to work by the municipal administration, which has just settled and has not failed the active closeness of the institutions, mayor in the head. After the most critical phase, a further response must now be given at all levels. It is a specific duty and I am sure that, through a test of efficiency and functionality, we will be able to demonstrate true solidarity in the shortest possible time. It is not a hope and not even a momentary necessity. I would like to point out that other centres, as I was rightly reminded earlier, have been hit in Italy by similar natural disasters: Emilia-Romagna, Sicily, Marche, Puglia and Veneto. Of course, Pescara's was an incredible situation: think that hail grains weighing 400 grams have fallen. The damage to people was really little compared to what happened in a few minutes in the city of Pescara. I thank you and the House, Mr President, for their attention to this national emergency and thank you for what will be done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u43	Colleagues, as mentioned by Senator Pagano, these events covered several parts of the country; I have therefore received a number of requests for intervention. However, having to approve the ratifications, we will devote the last half hour of the sitting to all the speeches on this subject, because otherwise our work programme would be interrupted. Then at 13.30 there will be interventions on all the calamities that have occurred.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u46	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday our colleague Nino Randazzo, Senator in the 15th and 16th legislature, left us. Besides being a colleague, he was a friend to me; I am deeply sorry about this sad news. Nino was born in the Aeolian Islands and emigrated to Australia in 1952. He will always carry in his heart the Aeolian archipelago and his Salina. Together with her life mate, Mary, who met on a ship on their long journey to Australia, settled in Melbourne, where they had three daughters. Even Mrs. Maria unfortunately left us, just under two months ago; Nino's heart, already fragile, perhaps did not stand the pain for his disappearance. Nino was a brilliant and keen exponent of Italian and Australian culture: journalist, essayist, historian of Italian emigration, author of books and theatrical comedies. For almost thirty years he has been the director of "Il Globo," the most popular Italian-language newspaper in Australia. I remember his editorials full of reflections and full of meaning for the Italian-Australian community and for Australian multicultural society. I remember many of his critical statements, almost desecrating, on topical issues. Young Italian in Melbourne, Nino joined the Democratic Labour Party in the late 1950s, a Catholic-inspired party formed by a split of the Australian Labour Party. With this party he was a candidate for parliament in 1964. Always active in the Italian-Australian community, Nino was vice president of the Comites of Victoria and Tasmania and adviser to the General Council of Italians abroad, where he held the office of president of the Information and Communication Commission. I met Nino almost immediately after my arrival in Australia in 1983. I proposed - and he agreed - to publish a column on Italian welfare in which I answered the questions of the readers, who then, for the youngest, came to us by post. In 1985 the Australian Minister of Social Security appointed me and Nino in a committee of inquiry of five people, to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal to conclude social security agreements with the countries of origin of immigrants, including Italy. We worked together for many months, meeting representatives of communities and institutions in many Australian cities. It was the consolidation of a long and sincere friendship. The social security agreement between Italy and Australia is just one of the many historic battles promoted by Nino. After a life dedicated to the information and defence of the rights of migrants and after being a leading representative of the community also in relations with the Australian civil and political authorities, in 2006 Nino was elected senator on the Olive tree list and re-elected in 2008 in that of the Democratic Party. In the years of his mandate here in the Senate I remember him as a correct, political person who has always been able to live up to his mandate, committed to his community. Nino has carried out his work with a real passion, linked to a deep social and cultural commitment, voice of the Italians of Australia, the first defender of Italians in the world. Mr President, there are many messages of affection that we are receiving these hours. One of them comes from Nino's daughters, who ask me to express their gratitude to you and, through you, Mr President, to the Senate because - I am told - the seven years spent in this House have been among the happiest in Nino's life. Nino was proud to represent the Italians of his constituency and make available to Italy his vast experience of life. He had at heart the interests and needs of all Italians in the world and was strongly convinced of their contribution to the development of Italy. The seven years in the Senate also allowed Nino to return to his native country, his homeland, from which he had never left and which he loved more than anything else. Mr President, after these memories, let me conclude by making, on behalf of all the senators and all the senators, heartfelt condolences to Nino's daughters and their families and saying that we will miss his critical voice, his honesty and his correctness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u47	I was lucky enough to know Nino Randazzo personally, to share with him two legislatures and to remember him, as you did, Senator Jacob, with the highest esteem as a person and politician. I join in the condolences that you have made to your relatives and I propose to the House a minute's recollection. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on draft law No 987. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. [[Brusio]] I call on colleagues in the vicinity of the Commission desk to allow Senator Iwobi to speak. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u49	Mr President, fellow senators and senators, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying three bilateral agreements on judicial cooperation signed by Italy with the Federal Republic of Nigeria in November 2016 concerning, respectively, extradition, mutual assistance in criminal matters and the transfer of convicted persons. First of all, Nigeria, which has more than 190 million inhabitants, is the most populated country on the African continent, as well as the largest economy in sub-Saharan Africa. For Italy, which today hosts a community of almost 100,000 Nigerians and which boasts with the African country ten years of economic collaboration, Nigeria is the second trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa after South Africa. The extension of bilateral cooperation, not only on the economic and political level, is an opportunity to be seized for Italy, also in the sensitive areas of judicial cooperation, on which the agreements covered by this draft law of ratification insist, in particular in order to prepare a more effective action to combat the phenomenon of transnational crime, often related to the development of migratory flows. The extradition treaty, composed of 25 articles, commits the parties to surrender to each other the persons prosecuted or sentenced by the judicial authorities of the other State, for the purpose of carrying out the trial or the execution of the sentence. The Agreement on mutual assistance in criminal matters aims to promote rapid and effective bilateral cooperation in the field of criminal judicial cooperation, in accordance with the principles of international law. Finally, the Agreement on the transfer of sentenced persons, consisting of 24 articles, aims to allow the transfer into their own State of citizens held in the territory of the other Contracting State, in order to allow them to serve the remaining sentence in their country of origin. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the draft law evaluates them in total in more than 200,000 euros per year, mainly attributable to the expenses for the transfer of sentenced persons. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with EU legislation and other international law rules to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. Finally, I would like to remind you that recently, from 9 to 12 June, a delegation from the Senate's Foreign Affairs Commission, led by President Petrocelli and composed of Senator Bishops and myself, went on an official mission to Abuja, Nigeria. This was a very important visit, because the delegation had the opportunity to meet the newly elected President of the Nigerian Republic, Muhammadu Buhari. On the occasion of this meeting at the highest institutional level, it was reiterated that the links between Nigeria and Italy are consolidated and need to be further strengthened, both in terms of cooperation in the field of migration and in the more properly economic sector. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u50	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u53	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I would ask that the text of my speech be presented in an explanation of vote so that it can be annexed to today's report. I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the bill on our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u54	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1014. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u56	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Treaty on the transfer of persons sentenced or subject to security measures, signed by Italy and Argentina in May 2017. The choice to sign a bilateral convention in this area was dictated by the lack of other legal instruments applicable to the case, since Argentina did not accede to the Council of Europe Convention of March 1983 on the transfer of convicted persons. The purpose of the bilateral treaty, which is the subject of this ratification, is to allow citizens held in the territory of the other Contracting State to be transferred to their State in order to allow them to serve the remaining sentence or to carry out the security measure in their country of origin. The draft law ratifying the Treaty consists of four articles. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the bill evaluates them in total in little more than 24,000 euros per year from 2019, mainly attributable to the expenses of the transfer of the sentenced persons and for the missions of their escorts. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with EU legislation and other international law rules to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, therefore, we are calling for the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u57	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u60	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that for this ratification, as for the subsequent ones, the Democratic Party vote will be in favour, because it is part of the work carried out by the previous Government, between 2015 and 2017, the need to cover, especially in Latin American countries, but not only, with new and innovative instruments, the issue of judicial cooperation. So our vote will only be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u63	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u66	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we also take action here to make our explanation of vote not only on this ratification measure but also on the subsequent ones and, in retrospect, on the previous one. We shall vote in favour of all these measures taken over time by different governments. One of them is even in 1996, another in 2001, so they concern governments of various political types. The meaning of this ratification measure, and also of many others, concerns cooperation, judicial and penitentiary assistance, extradition treaties, cooperation between the police of the different countries and also defence agreements (on Lebanon and Niger). For these reasons, we shall be voting in favour of it by pointing out that Parliament is finally, perhaps because it is faced with a legislative vacuum, recovering a few years' delay in this parliamentary term, in some cases a few decades, in approving the ratifications of the international treaties. At least we're useful in that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u69	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for this measure too, as in the previous one, namely the ratification of the agreement between Italy and Nigeria, and - the announcement - for all subsequent ones, the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be in favour. The goal, in this particular case, is to empty the prisons of foreigners detained in our country, granting the condemned the possibility of serving the sentence in a nearby environment - let's call it family - thus facilitating rehabilitation and avoiding being subjected to particularly harsh conditions of imprisonment. The purpose, in the particular case, is to protect - I would like to stress - the interests of the 51 Italian citizens currently detained in Argentine prisons, of which ten are final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u70	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u71	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1015. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u72	Mr President, this bilateral agreement between our country and Uruguay aims to improve international judicial cooperation. The two countries undertake to hand over to each other persons and wanted persons who are in the territory of the individual States, in order to allow the execution of a final sentence ordered by the respective judicial authorities. The Treaty consists of four articles. In Article 3, the total amount of this cooperation is estimated at EUR 23,000 per year.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u73	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u74	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1016. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u75	Mr President, since there was a chance that Senator Taverna would preside over the sitting, I will briefly explain the report in its place. Those we are about to ratify are two agreements that are part of the international instruments aimed at strengthening our country's cooperation relations with non-European realities and have the objective of improving international judicial cooperation and of making more effective in the criminal justice sector the fight against crime even of a transnational nature. The country concerned has a large community present in Italy, quantifiable in more than 80,000 people and it is therefore important to be able to proceed with the approval of these two ratifications. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the bill is evaluated in a total of just over 77,000 euros per year, starting from 2019, mainly attributable to the expenses for the transfer of prisoners, for the extradition of sentenced persons and for the missions of their companions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u76	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u79	AIROLA (M5S). I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u80	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1017. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u82	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the extradition and judicial assistance treaties in criminal matters signed by Italy and Costa Rica in May 2016. First of all, I recall that a bill of ratification of the same Agreements had already been examined, in October 2017, by the Foreign Commission of the House of Deputies, but could not see its examination process completed for the conclusion of the XVII legislature. As can be seen from the introductory report, the two bilateral agreements are part of the international instruments aimed at strengthening our country's cooperation relations with non-European realities, with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and of making more effective, in the criminal justice sector, the fight against crime, even of a transnational nature. It is recalled that Costa Rica is a Central American country of almost 5 million inhabitants, narrow between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea and bordering Nicaragua and Panama, which boasts with Italy increasing economic, tourist and commercial relations, despite the community of Costa Rican citizens, quantifiable in almost 500 people, is among the least numerous among those resident in the Italian territory. The increase in bilateral relations inevitably implies the need to strengthen cooperation between the two countries, including in criminal justice. In particular, the extradition treaty aims to substantially update bilateral relations in the field of criminal judicial cooperation, and in particular in the field of extradition, relations currently governed by the Convention for the mutual extradition of criminals dating back to May 1873. On the other hand, the treaty of judicial assistance in criminal matters, consisting of 27 articles, aims to promote better cooperation in the field of judicial cooperation between Italy and Costa Rica in order to make it rapid and effective, in accordance with the principles of international law. Under this agreement, the two countries undertake to provide judicial assistance in any proceedings concerning offences the repression of which appears to be the responsibility of the requesting State. The draft law ratifying the two Treaties consists of 4 articles. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the bill evaluates them in total in little more than 111,000 euros per year from 2019, which can be attributed in part to the expenses for the extradition of sentenced persons and for the missions of their companions. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u83	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u84	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1226, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the Exchange of Notes between Italy and Lebanon for the extension of the bilateral cooperation agreement in the field of defence signed by the Parties in 2004. First of all, it is recalled that a bill of ratification of the same Exchange of Notes had already been examined in December 2017 by the Senate Foreign Commission (Act 2972), but could not see its examination process completed due to the conclusion of the XVII legislature. Lebanon, which is a country slightly less extensive than Abruzzo and with a population of more than six million inhabitants, occupies an area of absolute strategic importance in the heart of the Middle East. Its internal political balance has often been conditioned by the conflicts and geopolitical interests of the various actors throughout the Middle East region, as well as by the presence on its territory of a particularly large number of refugees and asylum seekers - Syrians and Palestinians above all - estimated by international organisations in more than one million people. Italy has been present for years in Lebanon as part of the UNIFIL international mission, with a contingent of about 1,100 soldiers, allocated to the base . "Millevoi" in Shama, in the South of the country, a short distance from the Israeli-Lebanese buffer zone, called "Blue Line." With its commitment and attention to the local population, Italy has been able to earn the esteem and respect of the Lebanese and all regional actors. Since August 2018, our country has been for the fourth time in charge of the entire UNIFIL mission with the General of Division of the Army Stefano Del Col, which currently operates almost 10,500 soldiers from forty-two countries. The purpose of the Exchange of Notes is to extend for a further five years the duration of the Cooperation Agreement signed by the two countries in 2004. The bill of ratification consists of 4 articles. Article 3, in particular, specifies that the implementation of the activities deriving from the Exchange of Notes shall be provided with the resources already available under existing legislation, i.e. those provided for in Law No 126 of 2006 ratifying the 2004 Bilateral Cooperation Agreement, which provides for expenditure of EUR 12,500 per year, every other year. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u86	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u89	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, as the rapporteur said, Italy is present in Lebanon, not only with command, but with a very large contingent on the UNIFIL mission, which intervenes in August 2006 to stop a very bloody war between Lebanon and Israel. That mission worked, it continues to function, and it also worked at a very difficult time, such as that of the formation of the Islamic State, when the region was subject to many new tensions. Despite this, in such a fragile area, there was, in fact, a situation of peace. Lebanon also demonstrates great trust in our country and, therefore, also wanted a bilateral mission between Italy and Lebanon in order to further strengthen its armed forces. The continuation of the defence agreement is therefore the legal framework for continuing to cultivate very close and important bilateral relations for the overall maintenance of security in the region.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u92	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wanted to speak on behalf of Forza Italia and, in particular, for the many friends we have engaged in uniform in that board. The Agreement that we are preparing to ratify, done in Beirut in 2016, goes with the aim of strengthening the Italian strategic interests in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, in a context that sees the Italian military presence in a considerable way within the United Nations Interim Force missions in Lebanon (UNIFIL), with a contingent of about 1,100 military. Italy intends to consolidate its presence in that area, capitalizing on the successes achieved during a continuous period of commitment in UN operations and collaboration with the Lebanese armed forces. Therefore, the maintenance of a legal framework to regulate bilateral cooperation with Beirut remains a particularly important objective to ensure our country's strategic interests in the Mediterranean. These are the reasons why I anticipated that the Forza Italia Group would vote in favour of ratification in our examination. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u95	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, in international intelligence circles it is said that you know Lebanon and you will be able to read every event that happens in the Middle East. All the tensions of the Region are concentrated in 10,540 square kilometers of territory and it is in this small State that the powers of the area collide and meet. The same composition of governments is known after months of negotiations and mediation between the political forces, which for those who know that reality are often determined by agreements between sub factions; a price to be paid for peace. The clash that takes place in other theaters with arms, fortunately, in Lebanon translates with government agreements between Shiites, Sunnis and the Maronite Christian majority, which, by Constitution, expresses the President of the Republic, while the role of Premier belongs to a Sunni and that of President of the House to a Shiite. For decades now, with the exception of short periods, the command of the international military mission has been under Italian leadership. It would also be rhetorical to emphasize the credit that the Italian military boasts towards all the various factions. How rhetorical it would be to explain its reasons. For these reasons the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of bill No 1226.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u96	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u99	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, in the previous vote I wrongly abstained. I wanted to vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1138. The rapporteur, Senator Candura, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Cultural and Scientific Cooperation Agreement signed in December 2006 between Italy and the Dominican Republic. This Agreement aims to provide a legal framework to deepen and regulate bilateral relations in the fields of culture, science, technology, language teaching, promoting collaboration and exchange between academic, university, archival and library institutions. First of all, it is recalled that a bill including the ratification of the Agreement today at our examination - the Senate Act 2813 - was presented by the Government during the 17th legislature and discussed by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee in June 2017, but could not see its examination process completed due to the end of the legislature. The bilateral agreement, after having detailed its fields of intervention to culture, science, technology, language teaching and knowledge of each other's traditions (Article 1), states that the Parties will foster the development of relations between their academic institutions, archival administrations, museums and librarians, through the exchange of teachers, researchers, experts, materials and databases (Articles 2 and 3). With regard to the economic burdens arising from the implementation of the measure, Article 3 assesses them in EUR 90,000 for each of the years 2019-2020 and EUR 101,880 from 2021. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with the European legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law No 1138 is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u102	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u105	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, it has been reported that the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Milan has opened an inquiry into alleged Russian funding to the League. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I could say with a joke: elevating the thing from gossip to done. I therefore formally request from the Presidency, on behalf of the Democratic Party, that the President of the Council and therefore the Government report to Parliament as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u106	The Presidency, also through the State Secretary for Relations with Parliament, will forward this request to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1170. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u108	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the Agreement signed in September 2014 between Italy and Cuba on police cooperation. First of all, it is recalled that a bill ratifying the same Agreement - the Senate Act 2106 - was presented by the Government during the 17th legislature, discussed and approved by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee in October 2017, but could not see its examination process completed due to the end of the legislature. The understanding establishes the commitment of the two countries to strengthen the collaboration and the mutual exchange of information to prevent and combat crime and terrorism and to create a legal instrument to regulate the modalities of operational implementation. The economic charges for Italy are estimated by Article 3 in just over 81,000 euros per year. (12 p.m.) (PACIFIC follow-up, rapporteur). The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law or other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law No 1170 is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u109	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u112	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement, in line with what has already been voted on on other similar occasions, considers this Agreement useful for police cooperation between the two countries. Police cooperation with regard to sexual exploitation offences, especially of minors, is particularly important. I hope that this Treaty will be essential to counter the phenomenon of sex tourism on the island, which unfortunately has frequently involved Italian citizens who go on holiday to Cuba. For these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u115	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, the position of Forza Italia, as I said, is in favour, but I want to explain why. The agreement does not present any incompatibility with national legislation, European law or other international obligations entered into by Italy, in particular from the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961 to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances 1971 to the United Nations Convention against Organised Crime signed in the year 2000. These are the reasons why, also for the agreement between Italy and Cuba, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u116	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u117	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a delegation from the International Federation of Stenography and Typography - Intersteno, including the Parliamentary Section, who will attend the 52nd World Congress in Cagliari. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u118	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1307, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u119	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, on the ratification of the Convention - on extradition between the Member States of the European Union, made in Dublin in September 1996 - which, in the wake of the other ratifications, is a legal instrument aimed at improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in particular, as regards this Convention, between the Member States of the European Union in relation to the prosecution of crimes and the execution of convictions, taking into account the common interest of the acceding countries in ensuring rapid and effective extradition procedures. In particular, the Convention aims at the implementation of a European judicial area for the reduction of obstacles to extradition so far lasting in the absence of a specific instrument aimed at aligning the laws of the Member States. The economic burdens resulting from the implementation of the measure are assessed by Article 3 in a total of EUR 19,231 per year, starting from 2019. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u120	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u123	Garavini (PD). Mr President, in asking for permission to hand over the full texts of my two explanations of vote, in order to be published in the annex to today's report, I am announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the draft ratification law under consideration and also of the draft law No 1308, which we will examine later. These are two measures designed to rationalise, simplify and speed up extradition of persons on whom international arrest warrants hang. These are, however minor, important elements for improving and strengthening the European judicial area, on which, in recent years, improvements have been stepped up, which have also been implemented by our previous governments, thus making an important contribution to the fight against organised crime, both at national and European level. So I repeat the Democratic Party's vote in favour, both on the draft law under consideration and on the draft law that we will examine shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u124	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u125	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1308, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u126	Mr President, today we are called upon to examine draft law No 1308, already adopted by the House of Members, which ratifies the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and two further protocols, the Third and Fourth. The aim is to introduce measures to rationalise, simplify and accelerate the discipline in criminal matters that, from a procedural and substantial point of view, guarantee the assistance requested by the member countries of the Council of Europe, with more effective methods and times of implementation, that streamline extradition procedures. With regard to the economic aspect, Article 5 assesses the charges in total in around EUR 106,000, starting from 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u127	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u130	Garavini (PD). Mr President, I confirm my Group's vote in favour, as mentioned earlier. As anticipated, I will leave the full text of my explanation of vote to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u133	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, this measure is particularly important because it aims to speed up extradition instruments and to combat cross-border and cross-border crime. The instruments of ratification under consideration therefore aim to strengthen cooperation and judicial assistance, with positive repercussions also thanks to the strengthening of cooperation between the law enforcement agencies at cross-border level. The measure contains a series of international cooperation instruments aimed at improving the capacity of States to combat supranational crime, also in the light of political and social developments in Europe and technological progress at global level, strengthening cooperation and judicial assistance mechanisms through the activation of further synergies both in the investigation and in the procedural field. For all these reasons, of course Forza Italia is in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u134	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u137	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would point out to you that, due to a malfunctioning of the electronic voting mechanism, I was unable to express my vote, which would have been in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u138	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1225, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u139	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, on the ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed by Italy and Niger in September 2017. First of all, it is recalled that Niger, a country of more than 20 million inhabitants, occupies an area of considerable strategic importance for the control of migratory flows from the sub-Saharan belt in the direction of the neighboring Libya. After a period of instability and institutional fragility, starting from the 2011 presidential election, which decreed the victory of the opposition leader Mahamadou Issoufou, Niger, which is a semi-presidency republic under the Constitution promulgated in November 2010, began a process of stabilisation and democratisation, also continued with the 2016 general elections, which confirmed Issoufou himself as president and allowed his party (Nigerian Party for Democracy and Socialism) to conquer the majority of the seats of the National Assembly, the local monocameral parliament. It is recalled that in the African country the bilateral mission to support the Republic of Niger is deployed, within the framework of the joint European and US commitment to the stabilisation of the area and the strengthening of the control capacities of the territory of the Nigerian authorities and the countries of the G5 Sahel (Niger, Mali, Mauritania, Chad and Burkina Faso), as well as for the increase of the ability to counter the phenomenon of the illegal traffics and the threats to security. The mission, which intends to contribute to the surveillance of the borders and territory and development of the air component of Niger, provides for progressive development up to the maximum use of 470 military, 130 land resources and 2 air vehicles. The current consistency of the Italian military personnel present on site is about 40 units, employed in connection activities. The slowdown in the deployment of personnel and resources is attributable to the Nigerian authorities mainly for internal political reasons, linked to the particular sensitivity of local public opinion regarding the presence of foreign quotas within national borders. However, the authorities reiterated, in bilateral talks, both politically and militaryly, the strategic value of cooperation with Italy, in particular in combating irregular migration. This Agreement, which follows similar measures already examined in the past by our Foreign Affairs Commission and which constitutes a specific political commitment undertaken by the Italian Government, aims to encourage, facilitate and develop bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the field of defence, on the basis of the principles of reciprocity, equality and mutual interest, in accordance with their respective legal systems and international commitments undertaken by the parties, setting out a legal framework to initiate structured forms of cooperation between the Armed Forces in order to consolidate their respective defensive capacities and improve mutual understanding on issues of common interest relating to security, such as the fight against irregular immigration, terrorism and illegal trafficking. The bilateral text, which consists of a preamble and 12 articles, after expressing the principles and objectives of the understanding (Article 1), identifies the modalities and fields of bilateral cooperation, referring in particular to the preparation of appropriate annual and multiannual plans and to the organisation of mutual visits of delegations, exchanges of experience between experts and participation in military courses and exercises. Areas of cooperation include research, development and purchase of defence materials and services, peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance operations, training of the Armed Forces and military health (Article 2). The conduct of cooperation activities shall be subject to the financial availabilities of the parties, who shall each bear their own costs (Article 3). The subsequent articles regulate the judicial aspects of the Agreement (Article 4), issues relating to compensation for damage caused to the host party (Article 5), cooperation in the field of defence products (Article 6), aspects related to the protection of intellectual property (Article 7), and arrangements for the processing of classified information (Article 8). The Agreement therefore defines the arrangements for resolving possible interpretative or application disputes (Article 9), the time limits for its entry into force (Article 10), the possibility of amending or supplementing its contents by concluding additional protocols, revisions and programmes (Article 11), the duration and the deadline (Article 12). The bill of ratification consists of 5 articles. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 calculates them in EUR 5,140 to alternate years from 2019, due only to mission and travel expenses for the carrying out of official visits and operational meetings provided for in the framework of the general cooperation referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement. Article 4 of the draft law also lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that any additional costs arising from the implementation of the bilateral agreement will have to be met with a specific legislative provision. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with the European Union's law and other international obligations entered into by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u140	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u143	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, there is, quite rightly, a strong focus on public opinion, often also on politics, in relation to detention centres in Libya because of the dramatic situation that people are in. There is less talk, but it is equally dramatic, of the condition of the desert paths made by many people, who for various reasons depart from the sub-Saharan countries to seek refuge. It is a path that modern slaves and traffickers of human beings make it really inhuman and incredibly difficult: people die for the hardships, women are raped even several times and the journey to approach the coast is certainly no less terrible than then happens in detention centers. An agreement such as this, which is a framework agreement, i.e. ratification of the possibility of concluding defence agreements, is born in bilateral talks with Niger, dealing precisely with the need to combat human traffickers. Speaking to Niger's Minister of Defence, the importance of acquiring more training in border control came out. The bilateral mission, which is then contained in the decree missions that also recalled the rapporteur, was born on this basis, that is to provide the support of the Italian Armed Forces in training the capabilities of the Niger Armed Forces in border control, in order to fight not migrants, but the traffickers of human beings. I know, because I have followed part of the general debate, that someone has been concerned because in the framework of the agreement - and I believe that this is also the reason for some votes against - all the possibilities for exchange are listed, and among them there is also the possibility of arms trading. This is a framework agreement that applies to all the defence agreements, it is not specific to Niger and Italian legislation is so attentive to Parliament's prerogatives that any passage of arms must absolutely be examined by Parliament. In fact, I remind you that in the last parliamentary term there was a debate, right here in the Senate, because we did not understand well the meaning of an amendment that provided for the transfer of musical instruments to the Somalian Armed Forces. This is how it is: the legislation is so rigid that being the Arm of the Carabinieri to yield the musical instruments and therefore being objects belonging to an armed Force, in order to be able to confer them to the band of the Somali Armed Forces it was necessary to pass through the approval of an amendment to the decree missions. If we are concerned about this, think in the case of tanks or other weapons if there is no parliamentary passage. I say this because I have seen some surreal discussions about the reality of what can happen in Parliament. So, of course, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u146	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, the ratification of this Defence Agreement with Niger is certainly an important step for the consolidation of bilateral defence cooperation between Italy and Niger itself, in a clear legal framework that allows the cooperation between the two countries to be structured. I would like to stress that Niger is part of the Sahel region, a territorial area increasingly connected with the Mediterranean, from which many of the concerns arise, especially after the fall of Gaddafi and the civil war in Libya and the conflict that opened in Mali in 2012. I would like to remind you that in March of this year alone, according to some estimates, some 88 civilians lost their lives for the increase of violence and the resumption of crimes perpetrated by the Islamist organization Boko Haram against both the Forces of Order and the civilian population of the Diffa region, while many people are forced to flee from violence, as Senator Pinotti also recalled, but also heading towards Nigeria to find refuge. It is therefore important to give support to local authorities to try to restore order and counter terrorist forces. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u147	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u148	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1260, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Di Nicola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u149	Mr President, as you announced, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the agreements signed in February 2017 between Italy and Serbia in order to facilitate the application of two conventional instruments formulated in the framework of the Council of Europe's activities, namely the European conventions on extradition and judicial assistance in criminal matters respectively. As regards the first of the two agreements - the one aimed at facilitating the application of the European Extradition Convention of December 1957 - it is part of a process of intensifying and refining the instruments of judicial cooperation aimed at combating organised crime and money laundering. With regard to the second agreement to be ratified, it aims to facilitate the application of the 1959 European Convention on Mutual Assistance, with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and of making more effective, in the criminal justice field, the fight against transnational crime. With regard to economic charges, calculated as a whole, they amount to EUR 32,000 per year from 2019. As regards the compatibility of the two international agreements, there is no problem. In conclusion, it is proposed, for all these reasons, that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u150	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u153	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, in a similar way to the other ratifications on judicial cooperation and extradition, we confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u156	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u159	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, the measure involves the ratification of two judicial agreements between Italy and Serbia. The first agreement concerns judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. The cases envisaged relate to procedural extradition; the possibility of serving the sentence in its own State at the outcome of the criminal proceedings in the requesting State, as well as the possibility for the requested State to execute the penalty imposed in the requesting State, in accordance with its national law, is particularly important. The second agreement between the Italian Republic and the Republic of Serbia is intended to facilitate the application of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. The commitment to intensify and improve the implementation of the instruments for judicial cooperation stems from the need to combat the phenomenon of organised crime, corruption and money laundering effectively and effectively. For all these reasons, Forza Italia will naturally vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u160	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u161	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1261, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u162	Mr President, I will briefly explain the content of the two Treaties which have been transposed by this measure. The Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which ratified the two Treaties mentioned above. The first question, the question of extradition, aims to improve cooperation between the two countries in this area, with particular reference to extradition and the transit of citizens with the aim of suppressing crime on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, equality and mutual advantage. The second is aimed at regulating bilateral criminal judicial assistance. I would stress here that the overall economic burden arising from the implementation of the measure is estimated at around 66,000 euros from 2019. The two Treaties - an important point - do not present any profiles of incompatibility with existing national legislation, with European law or with other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u163	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u166	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Giacobbe (PD). I would also like to stress that these bilateral agreements are, like the previous ones, part of that action to intensify and regulate judicial cooperation relations with certain countries outside the European Union, which Italy has been pursuing for years and which has also been intensified by the previous Government, also because of the need to make more effective the fight against organised crime. For these reasons, I would like to stress once again the importance for our country of signing this type of agreement and I hope that they can also be signed with other countries. In saying this, I confirm the Democratic Party's convincingly positive vote for the ratification of this and the subsequent measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u169	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, this agreement provides for both extradition of the case and enforcement, at the request of one of the States, in accordance with two principles which we consider to be fundamental: double criminality and ne bis in idem, as well as established international practices and standards. Kenya's stability is fundamental to the interests that Italy also has in that part of East Africa. We strengthen, with this Agreement, friendship and cooperation between our countries and these are the reasons why the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u172	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u173	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u174	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1262, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u175	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the Treaties signed by Italy and Kazakhstan in January 2015, respectively in the area of judicial assistance in criminal matters and extradition. The two Treaties which are the subject of this ratification are part of the instruments aimed at intensifying and regulating Italy's cooperation relations with non-EU countries in detail, with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and of making the fight against transnational crime more effective in the criminal justice field. The first of the two agreements on judicial assistance in criminal matters is aimed at regulating bilateral criminal judicial assistance. The second of the two treaties in question, in the field of extradition, is aimed at promoting rapid and effective cooperation between the two countries in the field of extradition, both procedural and executive, in accordance with the principles of international law. The overall economic burden amounts to around 93,000 euros per year, starting from 2019. The two treaties in question do not present any profiles of incompatibility with existing national legislation, European law or other international obligations entered into by our country. Therefore, in conclusion, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u176	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u179	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I confirm the PD Group's vote in favour and hand over the text of my written speech to be published in the Annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u182	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, the measure before us is the ratification of two treaties with which Italy and Kazakhstan intend to strengthen the instruments of international legal cooperation to combat transnational crime. The legislation forms part of the excellent relations that already exist between the two countries and represents a substantial rapprochement of the Government of Astana with the European Union and the recognition of the principles of the rule of law. I would remind you that today there is already a form of cooperation between Italy and Kazakhstan within Interpol. The ratification of these agreements will also strengthen and intensify the important economic, financial and commercial relations between the two countries, which are of absolute importance to us, given that Italy is Kazakhstan's third largest trading partner. In the light of these considerations I express and announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u185	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to announce the M5S Group's vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u186	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u189	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because today is a very special day, because it is the 40th anniversary of the killing of Giorgio Ambrosoli. It is not easy to remember such a relevant figure, so great in a nutshell. I want to do this, first of all, by quoting the motivation with which, on the twentieth anniversary of his death, on 12 July 1999, the President of the Republic, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, gave to the memory of Giorgio Ambrosoli the gold medal to the civil valor. Although she was subject to pressure and threats, she carried out the task entrusted to him with inflexible rigour and constant commitment. He therefore exposed himself to ever more serious intimidation, so much so that he was brutally murdered before he could finish his term of office. Beautiful example of the highest sense of duty and absolute moral integrity, pushed to the extreme sacrifice. I believe that Ciampi's words were very right words, which still retain all their topicality today. Giorgio Ambrosoli was told that he was a bourgeois hero, in a 1991 book by Corrado Stajano that bears this title. Both words are heavy and both seem to me to be well-founded. He was a hero because, in Italy of those years, carrying out a delicate assignment such as that which Ambrosoli found himself carrying out, having the courage to fulfill to the end his duty required heroism. The figure of Giorgio Ambrosoli remains a model of honesty, civil virtue, dedication to the country, which I believe can still teach us a lot. I would also like to remind you that Ambrosoli, after the appointment as commissioner of the Banca Privata Italiana of Sindona, found himself, for reasons related to his assignment, to have to put his hands in a tangle of interweavings that concerned the relations between deviant politics, Freemasonry, Mafia, high finance; explosive interweavings that, in fact, cost him his life. And I would like to remember, with great regret, because it is a fact that still burns to all Italians who have moral sense and institutions, that towards Ambrosoli there was also a crime of abandonment by the State. He was threatened for months. He suffered heavy intimidation, as Ciampi recalls in his motivation for the bestowal of the gold medal to the civil valor. He asked that an escort be assigned to him and no escort was assigned to him. Ambrosoli was killed under his house with four shots by a hit man, paid 115,000 dollars by Michele Sindona, having as an accomplice an international drug dealer and brother-in-law of the boss of Cosa Nuovo Stefano Bontate. This is the end of Giorgio Ambrosoli. When, on July 14, 1979, his funeral took place, the only public authority present was Paolo Baffi, the Governor of the Bank of Italy (he would have remained for a few more weeks). It was not by chance that Paolo Maffi was present. Paolo Baffi was present not only because it was the Bank of Italy that gave the office to Ambrosoli, but because towards Paolo Baffi there had been, a few months before, a machination, a very serious conspiracy, that recall all the books of history, which led to the unjust arrest of Mario Sarcinelli and the attempt to drag the Bank of Italy into the mud of political controversy. When, a few weeks later, probably also very shaken by the Ambrosoli affair, Maffi resigned as Governor of the Bank of Italy, he wrote in his diary: I cannot continue to identify myself with the system of institutions that strikes me or allows me to be struck in this way. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that Giorgio Ambrosoli has been given literary works, films, associations, squares, public spaces, schools and courtrooms. We talked about it this morning with colleagues Ferrari and Alfieri, who have always been very close to Umberto Ambrosoli and the family of Giorgio Ambrosoli in general. It cannot be said that it has not been remembered, but we must say with great force, in a solemn place like this, that everything we do to keep alive the memory of a personality of such high importance is never enough, but there is always something more that can be done. I wanted to say it in the Senate today and suggest, hoping, President, to find his membership, the respect of a minute of silence to pay homage to the memory of such a great Italian. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u190	Senator Parrini, the Assembly responded spontaneously with applause. However, I believe that there is another speech on the same subject. So, let me give you the floor, and then we'll respect a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u193	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I would like to quote the words of the letter that Giorgio Ambrosoli wrote to Anna, his dearest wife: It is certain that, in any case, I will pay very dearly for the job: I knew it before accepting it and therefore I do not complain at all because for me it was a unique opportunity to do something for the country. It is a letter that has touched me and many Italians for a long time. All I can do is thank Senator Parrini for wanting to dedicate this moment to the Assembly to truly remember what a bourgeois hero has been for our country. Heroes like Giorgio Ambrosoli need it every day. I thank Senator Parrini for putting the memory of this day to the attention of the House. The Movimento 5 Star Group also joins the request to observe a minute's silence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u194	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u197	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the House and, through it, of the bodies responsible for the destructive issue that yesterday was suffered by the city of Pescara, the Adriatic coast, the cities of Francavilla, Ortona and Giulianova. Yesterday, in fact, we arrived to photograph a real cataclysm from the point of view of the power of destructive hail. We had in fact a cause-effect relationship that caused damage to the schools of the city of Pescara, to the hospital, to the court, also to the command of the fire department, to the City of Pescara and to the prefecture. Many houses belonging to the patrimony of the folk houses have been deprived of the roof cover. There has been damage to private property, public property and people; 50 people have been injured. Even a pregnant woman was rushed to the hospital for the amount and quality of the damage she suffered. We must note that climate change has emerged from the conference rooms. There is a need for legislation that leads to a change of conduct; legislation that can be financed before the destructive events of tragedies of this kind, which have to do with what we have caused to the cycle of nature. With regard to the procedure, the Civil Protection Framework Law provides for the investigation for the recognition of damages suffered, determining the clear cause-effect relationship. At via Ulpiano the Civil Protection has activated. We need resources because from now on, to the end of the investigation activities, the municipalities must bring back to life and exercise the principals of granting rights to the citizen and to the communities. The first three budget chapters of all local authorities have no capacity. The ministries that have activities of support to the local authorities, Palazzo Chigi, via Ulpiano (i.e. the Civil Protection), the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the transports must give immediate help both in the acceleration of the investigation, and in the return of financial cover in order to restore the full functionality of the public structures. Let us be careful not to make sure that this time too the return of refreshment takes place two or three years late, otherwise those cities will be with their knees on the ground. I am talking to you about something like 3,000 fire department interventions that took place only yesterday, only in the city of Pescara. Keep in mind that the whole coast has been hit. For these reasons, President, I would ask you to draw attention to the matter by the competent Ministry, which is certainly that, today without political guidance, of Civil Protection, because in the competence of Palazzo Chigi, but also of the other Ministries that have to do with the territory. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u200	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, together with my colleagues from the Emilia-Romagna, Marche and Abruzzo regions, I think it is necessary to draw attention to the sensitivity of the members of this Assembly about the exceptional weather events that occurred yesterday on the central Adriatic coast and whose video images have been taken from the news of the main national broadcasters, highlighting the serious damage reported on our coasts. The Abruzzo cities of Montesilvano, Francavilla and Pescara are the most affected and are still counting the serious damage and the heavy consequences caused, as well as the extraordinary size of the fallen hail grains, as big as the palm of a hand, also by the strength of the mass of water dropped from the hills. Eighteen people in the city of Pescara alone needed the medical care of the Santo Spirito hospital, also partly flooded, in the operating rooms, in the kitchens and in the parking lots, rendered inaccessible by water levels that have reached even two meters. On the whole coast, however, there are some fifty wounded, with healing prognosis ranging from four to twelve days. The Abruzzo economy receives another heavy blow after the misfortunes of the past years and this time to pay the bill are the coastal accommodation facilities, the bathing establishments and agriculture, that in this period is dedicated to the harvest and programming of autumn productions, now heavily compromised both on the coast and in the Fucino, unfortunately. The damage to individuals is also in the order of several hundred thousand euros, with hundreds of damaged cars, roofs of destroyed houses, garages and flooded cellars. I am sure that - as has already been the case - the Council of Ministers will be able to express its sensitivity and closeness to citizens living in municipalities and regions affected by yesterday's bad weather, immediately accepting the request for the recognition of the state of calamity already made by the Abruzzo Region and, if requested, also by the other affected regions. Finally, I would like to thank the Undersecretary Gianluca Vacca for having promptly expressed the personal closeness and that of the whole Government, immediately contacting the mayor of Pescara and the President of the Abruzzo Region. Now there is a tendency to tropicalization of the climate, which is evident with a higher frequency of violent manifestations, larger hailstorms, seasonal shifts, short and intense precipitations and the rapid passage from the sun to the bad weather, with significant thermal changes, that compromise the cultivations and put at risk Our territories. Beyond the exceptional nature of certain events, I believe that these phenomena should push our action towards all those actions of environmental protection, prevention of hydrogeological failure and a strict policy of reducing emissions into the atmosphere and combating climate change. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u203	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I would also like to say to the House what happened yesterday, namely the climatic events that hit the Municipality of Cervia, in the hamlet of Milano Marittima and in any case on the coast of Romagna, in July, a month that is absolutely important from a tourist point of view for our economy. These are circumstances that have aroused great concern and surprise, since we are not accustomed to events of such characteristics and dimensions; we are accustomed to seeing the trumpets of air in the great plains of the American continent. Yet, today we are talking about tornadoes present in the Adriatic; phenomena that in very few minutes, really five minutes, can create serious damage and we do not even know why there has been no significant damage to people: only one person has been hospitalized. We have seen more than 200 secular pine trees fall and over 2,000 will be torn down in the next few days because they become insecure. In all this, the spirit with which the economic operators and the population of Cervia, in particular the seaside hamlet of Milano Marittima, immediately responded to this magnet is to be emphasized, because the season goes on and the tourists have always caught in the attitudes of our operators and the population the great attention to the needs of the visitors and the level of reception, which is maintained high. The President of the Bonaccini Region went immediately to the site and instructed the Councillor Gazzolo to recover all the data in order to ask for the state of calamity. The aspects already mentioned by other colleagues regarding the damage reported also in other parts of the Adriatic Riviera, as in the Marches and Abruzzo, certainly recall the need to pay attention to climatic phenomena that we are not accustomed to, but that certainly have causes that we know, and that in the long run will have to be contrasted with a system action that seeks to reverse trends of this type. In conclusion, I would like to stress the response that the population has given to the phenomenon: the institutions moved immediately, the Civil Protection immediately showed a strong commitment and must be thanked together with the prefecture. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u206	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too agree with the comments made by my fellow Members, who have also largely related to the very serious events that took place yesterday on the Adriatic coast. The city of Pescara is a point of particular fragility from the territorial point of view for its configuration: all subways - for example - are frequently flooded; there is no drainage of the waters and it is a fact that derives from the way in which that environment was anthropized. It is a city that is particularly dear to me for having carried out a professional activity in total freedom of expression and thought, a condition not always found in my previous profession of university professor. Therefore, my speech is not merely liturgical, but it is deeply felt, and it is primarily of solidarity with the people affected. I would like to add to what my fellow Members have said - and I also welcome the fact that in such circumstances we are able to find a sense of unity in this House - with a more general consideration which concerns a clear fact. The Italian territory is beautiful and just from its beauty - for example from the coexistence, which in Abruzzo is particularly impressive, of mountainous territories impervious and inaccessible and coasts - springs its fragility. Pescara is narrow between two imposing mountain ranges in the hinterland, that of Gran Sasso and that of Majella, and a particularly fragile and subject to erosion. However, there are also other fragility of the Italian territory such as - for example - that resulting from the seismic risk. I would therefore like to see recognition in the European Parliament of the fact that there is an asymmetry in the hydrogeological risk and, in general, in the fragility of the territories. Areas subject to seismic risk or areas where there are massive mountains of certain sizes cannot be considered, even from the point of view of the resources to be devoted to the management of the territory, in the same way as more stable plains and perhaps - let's say this - even less appreciable from the landscape point of view. The commitment of this part of government force is of course to provide with all the necessary emergency measures and also, as far as my competences are concerned, in the tax field, but also to bring to other fora the recognition that, when intervening in a fragile territory such as Abruzzo, you do not necessarily enter the perimeter of state aid, but this perimeter needs to be modelled on the structures of the territories in which the measures are taken. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups, and the Senators Collina and Minuto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u209	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, the dramatic bad weather events of the past few hours, which have hit Italy and in particular the Adriatic belt, have hit the Marche Region very hard. A real rainstorm, with strong winds, devastated the Conero Riviera. Numana beach was cancelled in a few hours and reduced to a mountain of debris, with establishments and chalets that have lost all facilities. With Numana were hit Sirolo, Senigallia, the Fano coast up to Pesaro. Mr President, it was a disaster that could have ended badly. We have seen impressive images and, thousands of people, workers, fishermen and tourists have witnessed something really shocking and a person - we are close to his family - died of a heart attack, in Osimo, during the storm. There have been floods, fallen trees, blocked roads, accidents and damaged buildings also throughout the South of the Marches, in Recanati, Porto Recanati, Grottammare, San Benedetto, Cupra Marittima, and many damages are recorded in the hinterland: I want to mention the Vallesina and Maceratese. Economic damage has been caused to tourist activities: they are accounting and we know that they are huge. Entrepreneurs, workers and territorial systems must be able to get up immediately and never as today they need politics, because events of this kind risk being a hard hit, for a tourist season already put in trouble by a bad May, at a weather level. Yesterday there was the inspection of the President of the Region. I would like to express my closeness to the mayors and ask that the request for a state of disaster and emergency be immediately accepted. Mr President, these are dramatic events due to an excess of pollution and gas emissions, which also have enormous repercussions for agriculture and give us an awareness of the urgency of changing the model of development and acting on production processes, because there is a point of no return that we are overcoming. We must say enough to the selfishness and cynicism of a blind policy, which does the interests of the strongest powers and a fierce capitalism. We owe it to the new generations and to the many young people who in the squares, in all these months, have claimed and still claim the future for our Planet and for all those who live there. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u210	With the first intervention of Senator D'Alfonso I had to pass a few seconds, so I allowed all the other speakers on the subject to abound beyond three minutes. From this moment, after the three minutes, the word will be removed. I ask you, therefore, to remain on schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u213	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to what happened exactly ten years ago. Ten years ago she left us Anna Costanzo, a woman engaged at the Petruzzelli theatre in Bari, killed by her own partner in the night between 10 and 11 July. The story of Anna is the story of thousands and thousands of women who every day, in our country, are the unarmed target of physical and verbal violence. It has not been long since the institutions decided to deal with such hateful crimes with determination. Some progress has been made, but the way to ensure the real dimension of security, in freedom and dignity, is still long and it is essential to continue to go along it together. In Bari, six years ago, the experience of the pink binary was inaugurated, the result of the dialogue between institutions and associations of the third sector in the front line on this front; an initiative that I had the pleasure to follow and to see grow over the years. Thus, thanks to the collaboration between the welfare council of the Municipality of Bari, the Policlinico of the Apulian capital, the National Association of Magistrates, the social cooperative C.R.I.S.I. and other important associations, have finally been able to give a definite and concrete place to all those women victims of sexual and psychological violence. The pink binary gives support and assistance to those women, through the opening of a preferential channel in the referencing and the visit and guarantees care and attention, thanks to the involvement and consultation of many professional figures: magistrates, social workers, doctors, psychologists and psychiatrists, specific departments of the Forces of the Order, prepared to deal with and manage cases of violence in an organized and coordinated way, by virtue of a common operational protocol that allows them to intervene promptly. Next September the "Room Rosa," as a central space of itinerary, will be dedicated to Anna Costanzo, in the memory of a woman who saw life in color because she wanted to live it in color. The beautiful initiative, moved by his loved ones and also supported by the Giraffa Onlus association, will be useful to keep alive the memory and to mark also the drama of an ever-present violence. We need a constant responsibility, to be made in precise and specific political choices. They are not only symbolic places: they are places that have a value if there is a daily work, before, during and forever. In the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights and the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, the issue is central and obviously our greatest responsibility will be to raise awareness among our communities and the new generations, so that women can... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u214	Senator, I must ask you to respect the time, otherwise I am forced to allow everyone to finish the surgery by going further. That's not rude. I'd like you to pass the message that you don't want to be rude. Every subject is important and, therefore, I would ask you to finish by giving the floor to the colleague who is waiting. Please, Senator Messina.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u215	I shall conclude by saying that we will always keep our eyes on and our eyes on and strengthen the strength of signals and gestures in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u218	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak at this final stage in order to request the reply to some of my questions, which have been tabled for more than a few months. The first is the 4-01548, presented last April 4 and introducing measures for the support and enhancement of small Italian municipalities. The second is the 4-01614 of 29 April, relating to the redevelopment of the prison of Santo Stefano, reappearing in the Municipality of Ventotene. Finally, the last question is 4-01711, submitted on 29 May, concerning the risk of closing the points of first intervention, as provided for by Decree Balduzzi n. 70 of 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u221	TURCO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to report yet another fatal accident at the Ilva plant in Taranto. A thirty-one-year-old boy, Cosimo Massaro, while working on a crane at the fourth protruding port, fell into the sea and is dispersed. Moreover, in the same area of the port, in November 2012, another worker died, Francesco Zaccaria. A little over a year ago, in May 2018, another fatal accident occurred on the same protruding concession to ArcelorMittal. On that occasion, Angelo Fuggiano lost his life. On Tuesday, July 9, Taranto's attorney arrived to seize and shut down blast furnace 2, where another fatal accident occurred in June 2015. Work on blast furnace 2 should have been carried out on adaptation by former ILVA Commissioners and current operators, which have never been completed. From here came the judge's decision to order his shutdown. I would like to remind you that it was 2012 when the gip of the court of Taranto, Patrizia Todisco, contesting the crime of environmental disaster, seized the entire industrial area. Since then, a series of decrees has been made save ILVA to allow productive continuity. In these hours, Parliament has finally eliminated the absurd privilege of criminal immunity, of which opportunities continue to be discussed. ArcelorMittal, as a result of this measure, threatened to leave the management of the plant. The hope is that the Government and Parliament will strongly reject this form of blackmail and that, in the ongoing revision of the environmental plan, the prevention of health damage will be introduced. This becomes even more necessary because of the disconcerting data produced by industrial pollutants on the health of citizens. The last report of SENTIERI, recently presented, attested, among other things, that in the area of Taranto there are 600 children born with malformation. These are data that a civilized country cannot accept. All politics, trade unions and local institutions have a great responsibility for what is happening to a community that has been suffering and mourning the many deaths for too long. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Minuto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u224	DRAGO (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the news of recent days has clearly highlighted the issue of waste management in some of the largest cities in our country, as well as the unfavourable climatic conditions. In particular, I would like to stress the serious situation facing the City of Catania. For many months now, citizenship has been complaining of obvious deficiencies in the road sweeping service, the worrying increase in the amount of waste stacked and not disposed of and the failure by the contractor to comply with the commitments arising from the contract signed with the municipality. In this context, a further aggravating factor is the fact that the municipality disposes, under differentiated arrangements, of little more than 7% of its waste, a result well below current standards, especially when it is considered that users pay very high rates. The complaints of citizenship followed the heartfelt appeal of some municipal councillors who, in the institutional offices, addressed to the competent representatives of the City Council a firm invitation to intervene, in order to ensure the smooth operation of the collection and disposal service, as garrison not only of the decorum of the city, but also, and above all, for the protection of public health. The Junta was also urged to provide, in the interests of the whole community, some important data on the performance of this service; data essential to assess the failure of the company responsible for collecting and disposing and the responsibilities of an administration, at least uncertain in the face of the disaster to which the citizens of Catania daily assist. Needless to say, the Junta has not received convincing answers, nor the data and information required on the performance of the service. The initiative of the municipal councillors followed that of some regional MPs, who recently appealed to the President of the Region, invited, through formal questioning, to intervene urgently on the issue, activating the substitute powers recognized by the law, also through the commissioning and the appointment of a commissioner ad acta for the management of the crisis situation now manifest. Although the subject of waste management is not the direct prerogative of Parliament and the governing bodies, the situation of the town and other communities of the country seems now out of control and the risk that the situations of current bad management can turn into a health and public order emergency is concrete. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u226	You're free for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u227	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, the story concerns 1,874 men of the State Police who decided on 24 September 2013 to participate in the competition organized by decree of the Ministry of the Interior for access to the training course for the appointment to the status of Deputy Inspector of the State Police. The competition notice and the regulatory references contained in it are very clear and indicate that the places put into competition are related to organic holidays completed from 2001 to 2004. Consequently, those who had passed the ninth training course would have had the right to be appointed Deputy Inspectors of the State Police in full effect, from 1 January of the year following that for whose holidays or shortages of staff the competition was called, and therefore from 1 January 2005. Unfortunately, the competition lasts about four years. Those who have applied are admitted from September 12, 2017 to attend the ninth course and at the end obtain the appointment to the position of Deputy Inspector, with effect from March 12, 2018. I'm going to tighten up the surgery to reduce its duration. However, I would like to point out that this is a mixed mess by the administrations, managed also by the instructions of the old governments, to which unfortunately all the situations that have occurred in the following years lie. Today this government has to settle the holidays of previous governments, but all this always goes to the detriment of citizens, in this case of 1,874 people who are part of the State Police. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u229	You have the floor, too, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u230	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to join in the memory of the victims of the flood events of these days and express my solidarity with their families. I would like to remind the Assembly also what is happening in the last days in Sardinia: the mayor of the Municipality of Oliena has returned the tricolour band to the Region - not only to the Region, but also to the province of Nuoro - to urge President Solinas to finally, after six years, reopen the infrastructure on the river Cedrino, that is the bridge of Oloè. The bridge of Oloè sank in 2013 during the cyclone Cleopatra; a bridge that so far has not been able to reopen, renovated several times by ANAS and now placed once again under seizure due to a collapse. It is a fundamental bridge, because it allows the people of the municipalities of Oliena and Dorgali to go to work in a reasonable time. That is why I express our solidarity with those people and I hope that the local authorities will take immediate action. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u231	I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.26 a.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u232	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Public Administration will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Falco may explain question 3-00999 on the application of the new rules on public order and safety to vessels flying the Italian flag for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u233	Mr President, first of all I would like to greet the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and all my colleagues. The story in question is that of the 5 July, when the ship Alex, of the Mediterranean saving humans association, with 54 shipwrecked on board (of which eleven women, of which three pregnant, and four children) - and here already I want to dwell, in order to emphasize that it is not of migrants, but of shipwrecked - reaches the limit of the Italian territorial waters; there it is stopped for a measure, as the President said, adopted pursuant to article 1 of the decree-law n. 14 June 2019, n. 53, with urgent dispositions in matter of order and public safety, on the initiative of the Minister of the inside and countersigned also by the Ministers of infrastructures and the transports and the defense. The measure was directed - I repeat - to the boat flying the Italian flag named Alex, with shipwrecks on board, then in the course of a rescue operation at sea. That vessel was forbidden to enter, navigate and rest in Italian territorial waters, considering that the conditions provided for in Article 19 (2) (g) were fulfilled, limited to violations of the immigration laws in force in Italy, of the Convention of Montego Bay on the Law of the Sea of 1982. We are therefore talking about the application in Italy of an international convention, i.e. the transit of foreign ships into territorial waters. In my opinion and Mr De Petris, who signed this question with me, the decision to apply the security-a-law to a ship flying the Italian flag seems surprising. That decision does not even identify which State should exercise jurisdiction over that ship, except the flag country. In my view, one cannot forbid abdicating to the duty to apply civil, criminal and administrative jurisdiction on an asset bearing the Italian flag: first, the Italian flag. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u234	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u235	Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow senators who, since this morning, have offered me solidarity with yet another threat of death, this time with a.22 bullet, ensuring that I will not change the way I work in the face of such initiatives. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I hope that this will unite Parliament, regardless of the various ideas, because it is obviously not with the bullets that a political battle is waged. [[Applause.]] I add a note on the sidelines: I come from a Council of Ministers which has finally passed a delegation law for the reordering of the local police, which for thirty-three years waited for this type of recognition. But let's come to us. The decisive change of attitude of this Government in relation to the policy of indiscriminate openness to the migratory flows pursued in the past has allowed to cut off drastically departures and deaths, as well as to effectively combat the hullers. According to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), we have dropped from the 5.096 migrants who died or disappeared in 2016 to the 584 migrants reported in 2019. During this year - I remember to update the Assembly - we landed on our coasts 3,153 migrants, i.e. about 82% less than in the same period of 2018 and 96 percent less than in 2017. I also remember that those who really escape from war and persecution can and must arrive in Italy with the humanitarian corridors that I personally have updated and signed. The case of the Alex ship, like that of the Sea-Watch 3, has demonstrated the effectiveness of the measures adopted with the decree-law security-a, which in these days has begun the process of conversion to the Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, I have committed myself - and I also invite my fellow Members to do so - to read the definition of the term "naufragio" used by Senator De Falco: these are not shipwrecked, they are journeys organized by traffickers for payment of money. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] A shipwreck is an imponderable and occasional event, this is an organized human trafficking. In particular, returning to the measure, concerning the specific question posed by the honourable Members, I would point out that Article 1 of the Security-A Decree-Law provides for the application of the limitation of the prohibition of the entry, transit or rest of ships into the territorial sea, both when the so-called injurious passage of a ship under the Montego Bay Convention is carried out, and for reasons of public order and safety, in which case, of course, the flag flying the ship is not relevant. The only express exclusion is that concerning the military vessel and the ships in service. I am also sure that Parliament will succeed in making it even more stringent and rigorous when the decree-law is converted in order to ensure the legality, security and protection of national borders. For those who run away from the war it is Italy's duty to open the doors; for those who bring war to our home, the doors and the ports are and remain closed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u236	Mr Minister, the beginning of your speech has, however, received a significant applause from the House on solidarity, which there is no need to stress, for any form of threat or violence, all the more so if it is directed at a representative of the institutions. I give the floor to Senator De Falco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u237	Mr President, I support the solidarity expressed by this House, because of course any form of threat or violence is to be condemned, not only to representatives of the institutions, but to everyone, including Carola Racket, for example. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]] After that, beyond everything else that had nothing to do with the subject (the Minister went very far off the subject), we must say that the shipwreck, Minister, is the one who is about to lose his life in present and imminent condition, has not only to do with the ship, but also with the person. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]] These botched studies don't do you any credit. The problem is that if we leave a ship out of the territorial waters, in reality the Minister of the Interior is deciding that the Italian jurisdiction does not apply to Italian ships; therefore, if the Italian ship had committed a crime, it could not be censorable and this is serious, very serious: it is like abandoning something that you have the duty to do. Abdicare is not at all in the tasks of the administration; the administration has a duty to prosecute those who commit crimes (I agree with you), so it lets the ship in and subject it to jurisdiction. It's simple. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u238	Senator Ginetti has the right to explain question 3-01004 on the refinancing of the Community support fund under merger for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u239	Minister, today we are asking for an answer to the many questions that have been filed and which have so far not been answered with which we have intended to highlight the criticalities regarding the failure to adapt the budget of the Solidarity Fund for the mergers of the municipalities, in particular with respect to the requests planned for 2019, which are confirmed in its own decree of June last. In particular, the president of the National Association of Municipalities of Italy (ANCI) and the coordinator ANCI of the small Municipalities have evidenced that there are approximately thirty million missing to the Municipalities that have been the subject of fusion and fusion by incorporation and that would serve to cover the coefficients of distribution previewed in 2018. These reductions amount to as much as 60% of the resources required, which are involved in the course of the year and are therefore likely to have a major impact on the very nature of the budgets of the municipalities. These are 67 bodies established by the merger 166 administrations, of which yesterday a representative organized a protest, here in Rome, in front of the Chamber of Deputies: mayors who wearing the tricolor band made courageous choices. The fusion is always a complex, tiring path that redesigns, not only administrative boundaries, but puts into play the history and identity of the populations, the soul of the places that, in their respective civic towers and in the many bell towers, are recognized. It is a sense of belonging that is, therefore, redefined by mergers. These reductions are, moreover, in addition to the most recent cuts caused by the adjustment of public accounts, corrections of your maneuver to the detriment of citizens in a context of growth forecasts of 0.1%, which mean less health, less transport, less education, less resources for hydrogeological failure. To finance your flag proposals, Minister, you are betraying our mayors and removing oxygen from local communities. Minister, tell us what you intend to do and whether you intend to provide urgently for the full refinancing of the euro area contribution for 2019, in order to allow, as a result, the formulation of satisfactory allocation criteria for each individual institution in the 2018 table. Because it is not just the accounts of the municipalities that are threatened, Minister, but the ability to maintain adequate levels of basic services. The social and civil cohesion of our territories is threatened. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u240	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u241	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member, whom I will send some of the hundreds of thank you emails from many Italian mayors of municipalities below the 20,000 inhabitants, including the mayors of the left, for the EUR 400 million allocated under the budget law to intervene in schools and public buildings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] BITI (PD). Don't make propaganda, answer the questions! Mr Salvini, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for the Interior. But I thought I'd do a useful service. [[Comments of Senator Biti]] Then I will censor the thank-you e-mails of the mayors of the Democratic Party, who are at risk of expulsion, of course. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] The quantification of contributions is laid down by law, which requires that, where the requirements exceed the financial availabilities, the Ministerial Decree gives priority, by means of an increase coefficient, to mergers or incorporations more dated over time. Obviously, this is the official response of the Ministry of the Interior that deals with public bodies, which explains how the recovery mechanisms that, for 2018, amounted to 5.3 million euros, will be distributed, in order to try to meet as many needs as possible. To this figure, the Ministry of the Interior has directly added, for example, a total allocation of 90 million, in the security decree last year, in order to increase the video surveillance in urban centers. With the growth decree, approved by this Assembly, government policies have been foreseen to finance municipal projects for energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development, for more than 500 million euros, as well as further measures to support small municipalities under 1,000 inhabitants, until yesterday absolutely forgotten. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, it is annoying to answer with some background noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u242	Colleagues, please let the Minister who is answering the question finish. Then, in reply, you will make observations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u243	Mr Salvini, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for the Interior. For God's sake, I understand the nervousness of a left who sees in a year what they have not done to them in so many years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I close by saying that there is a confrontation between the Government and local authorities on the issues of the associated management of services, the simplification of administrative and accounting burdens for small municipalities and the revision of the model of government of the Large Area. From this comparison can derive valuable suggestions and effective solutions also to evaluate and deepen the cost-benefit ratio of the instrument of mergers between municipalities. What I undertake not to do in this Parliament is a half-reform, such as the one that has faked out the Provinces, leaving entire Italian roads, schools and bridges without any kind of maintenance. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u244	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Missa for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u245	Mr Minister, we are obviously not satisfied with the answer, not least because there was no substantive answer. In my opinion you are making a reprisal, yet another reprisal against the Italian municipalities. Just as it happened with the blocking of the bans for the redevelopment of the suburbs with the budget law, your action, Minister, compromises the economic development and the quality of the territorial services. To deny mergers between municipalities the agreements and principles contained in a contract, to tear up an existing contract, to force the municipalities, who have embarked on the path of institutional innovation through mergers, to heavy cuts, in the course of the year, not only creates damage to those communities, injured, Minister, the credibility of the State and undermines the rule of law. We need EUR 31 million, we have tabled amendments to the bill to improve public finance balances; support for our amendment, yes, would solve the whole question with our question. If we think that the cost of your sovereign policies will result in an increase in spending of around 5 billion in 2019 only in debt management, 31 million to improve the quality of services to citizens is a moral duty first, to which a serious government gives a serious response. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, do not also pursue against the local authorities a negative identity that is being rooted, which replaces the "doing together" with the "doing together" I think about it, the "parting together" with the "star well alone"; if you demolish the unions and mergers between municipalities for an electoral calculation renounced to the future. It is the only way to improve the quality of services to citizens. The real interests of Italians are protected by increasing the quality and quantity of services to people, much more than giving in to the Russian sovereignists and Visegrad pieces of our national sovereignty; if then everything happens in the turbid and within agreements with Russia that are being detected in bad color and seem to involve the North League, transparency becomes indispensable to safeguard the credibility of the institutions. Mr Minister, come back soon to report back to this House, to ensure transparency and above all to ensure the resources of the municipalities, which are fundamental for the quality of services to Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u246	Senator Urso has the power to explain the question 3-01003 on the determinations regarding the realization of the railway line TAV Turin-Lyon, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u247	Minister, our question concerns an issue of extraordinary importance for the development of the country, for our production system, for employment, therefore for work, but also and perhaps above all for the protection and respect of the environment. It concerns a decision that the Government has not made for over a year: it would like to know from the Government what it intends to do for the continuation of the plan of the high-speed train. Minister, it appears from the newspapers that you have asked for more time. In a letter to the European Commission's Innovation Executive Agency and networks, you asked for another 15 days, so you probably should reply on 26 July. We regret that Mr Salvini left the Chamber at the moment, because if the same question had been asked to him, he would probably have answered in a diametrically different way from the answer we are afraid that the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will once again give Parliament. We know what the divisions are within the majority, but you also know very well what the country's opinion is. The Italians have also expressed themselves clearly in the recent regional elections in Piedmont, with almost universal suffrage towards the political forces that had expressed themselves clearly for the realization of the TAV and, even more so, in the European elections of the same day, when throughout the North - I would say, throughout the country - his party, which had opposed it, has seen widely reduced, halved, its consents. We know that tomorrow the Vice Premier will be in Turin, struggling (at least so we read) with the meeting with the no TAV, the activists who supported the Movimento 5 Stars. We would like to ask you officially here, in Parliament, by the Italians, what the Government intends to do not to lose the 800 million euros already allocated, not to return the 120 million already paid to Italy, in short, to give Italy this project as advanced as that of the high-speed train. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u248	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member and respond very gladly to what is probably the tenth, twelfth or fifteenth question which was legitimately and rightly put to me in the House and Senate. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that all the work carried out so far by the Government and myself on this subject has the aim of protecting the interests of Italian citizens with respect to a risk of waste of public money, following what is planned - let us always remember - by a government contract that binds two political forces of majority and by motions voted to the House and the Senate, which have engaged the Government precisely on what has been written within that aforementioned contract. As far as the questioners are concerned, I can report that there has been no ultimatum on the part of the European Union, because, as I have said on several occasions, the construction of a work, which seems old - let me tell you - even before it was born, was already well behind the times set in the agreements and forecasts governing European funding, well before the establishment of this Government. In addition, its implementation has put forward assessments of opportunities, which require a detailed discussion in the intergovernmental forum. As the same questioners say, in fact, of the amount that would have been allocated for the project in question, amounting to about 800 million euros for the cycle of investments in conclusion, only a small part has already been paid, equal, for Italy, not - as has been said - to 120 million euros, but to about 66 million. Interlocations with the European Commission's Innovation Executive Agency and networks are part of the ordinary dialectic on the implementation of programmes of competence. In this case, the commitments and deadlines on which the Government will express its position provide for the direct involvement of the Presidency of the Council and the French Prime Minister, on the basis of the commitments made by the binational company TELT, with note of 7 March last. As far as my powers are concerned, therefore, I can only reiterate, also the outcome of a cost-benefit analysis, which clearly condemns the work, that the commitment made so far and the work carried out so far in this area will be finalized by the Presidency of the Council, representing the Government in its collegiality, to preserve the interest of the Italian State and the best use of public resources. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u249	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u250	Minister, your answer is in line with what your party has done, for example, on the case of the Olympic Games: the renunciation of Rome and the renunciation of Turin. Then, fortunately, the Olympics were assigned to Italy, Milan and Cortina. His answer is in line with what his party and government unfortunately decide not to do: a sort of continuous obstructionist melina, which applies to the TAV. Even today you have not told us what your answer is, just a few days from a decision that must be made and communicated. But this is about the third pass like Alitalia. There are eight hundred days in the Commissariat, one million euros a day have been wasted, and we will probably reach another billion and then what, for postponement? The postponement regards the Alitalia, the fusion ANAS-Ferrovie, the highway concessions, the decisions on the great ships to Venice. This is the government of not doing and its is the Ministry against infrastructure. Probably, Minister, we'll have to wait until you decide to leave this Ministry to unlock the country. (M5S). Go to sleep! Mr Urso (FdI). We're waiting for this moment. I believe that our allies of government are also waiting for him and, above all, the Italians, who have already spoken on this work several times and on the necessity that the country has to realize the great infrastructures, like the small and great works of every reality. Above all, work, employment and development must be done. [[Senator Wolf's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u251	Colleagues, we are conducting immediate questions. It is the right of any questioning senator to intervene and must not be interrupted by anyone. Senator Ferro has the right to explain the question 3-01001 on the revocation of the motorway concessions entrusted to the Company highways for Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u252	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I would like to express my solidarity with Mr Salvini for the threats he has received, which we also believe are not a correct system. And, therefore, we want to take this opportunity to show our solidarity with him. Minister Toninelli, on 14 August 2018 the bridge Morandi of Genoa collapsed and this raised the attention on the company Atlantia SpA, dealership of the A10 motorway. She even, in the following days, together with Vice President Di Maio, had moved to support the opportunity to withdraw the motorway concessions to the important giant. On 6 July, you, Minister, made the following statement on the work of the ministerial committee set up at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: On Friday evening, the expert opinion came in to support MIT. From what emerges, we can begin to say that there has been a serious default. This breach certainly involves compensation in case of early termination and therefore it cannot be excluded that the dealership can obtain them. According to press sources, it seems that we are talking about EUR 20 billion; according to Mediobanca we are talking about EUR 23 billion to EUR 25 billion. We ask you, Minister, if this justiceist drift that distinguishes your activity since you are at the Ministry does not lead to an infrastructural blackout of our country, with obvious negative economic repercussions on the entire system of development of our country. It is also of these hours the question relating to the rescue of Alitalia, on which the same Atlantia SpA, in recent days, had manifested its interest for a hypothetical investment plan together with other share partners. We would like to ask you, Minister, whether you intend to proceed with the withdrawal of the concession, with what obvious economic consequences it would entail; when you consider that you will make known to the Chambers the work done by the committee in the premise you mentioned; and if you do not consider it appropriate to provide - as far as competence is concerned - clarifications regarding the involvement of Atlantia SpA in the relaunch of the Alitalia flag company. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u253	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u254	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Senator, who is talking about infrastructure blackouts as a result of legitimate choices by a Government which is finally seeking to balance the interests and legitimate rights of the State with respect to the legitimate - but extremely disproportionate - interests of dealers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I, unfortunately, saw the infrastructural blackout when that bridge collapsed with under 43 victims, certainly not in the initiative to restore the state's order of importance to a private individual. Having said that, I should like to answer first of all the question you have just asked when the Minister considers that the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the Morandi Bridge should be made known to Parliament. I am pleased to inform you that the work done by the working group of lawyers, set up by a ministerial decree of March 2019, was published on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport nine days ago - I think it is well known to all [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - and therefore since then it has been available to anyone, including the dealer, including you, but also any citizen who wants to enter the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. This is a transparency operation that has been in place since the 5 Star Movement took place; since - for example - we published - for the first time in history - the annexes to those concessionary contracts from which one could understand why those dealers were greatly enriched. In that report, which you could examine in full at any time from that 2 July, it is reported, among other things, - it is a fundamental step, made by lawyers, by an independent commission - that the State, as a conceder, represents the general interest of all in the agreement with the private concessionaire and, therefore, can assert the serious responsibility of the manager. The dealer has made it unusable for a time however along the property constituted by the Morandi bridge, with very serious effects in terms of victims and moral, economic and image damage to the State itself. We are therefore faced with a failure, which the jurists of the working group define as "of particular gravity" and "definitivo" (definitivo). The obligation of custody of the property assigned in concession has failed, the obligation of return, because the bridge has collapsed and can no longer be returned and of course there is also serious default due to lack of maintenance. The report says, among other things, that only EUR 440,000 have been spent on the structural maintenance of the bridge since 2005, while EUR 1.300,000 per year had been spent in the pre-privatisation phase. So it's a test proven by the numbers, present in the technical reports, that they didn't invest. In their application, the interrogators also point out that, in the Autostrade note for Italy, it is specified that the terms of the agreement "prevent, in the denied hypothesis of revocation, the payment of a so-called compensation, which corresponds to the right value of the concession." I read from your question. I note that the parliamentarians of the opposition have assumed - and I regret this - the role of lawyers of Autostrade for Italy: believe me that there is an endless list of law firms, which are already protecting the interests of private individuals, disproportionate to the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As we represent the State, the institution and the general interest, I would point out that they should be well aware of the absurd terms of that convention, because it was they - it was you, colleagues - who approved it, with Law 101 of 2008, or one of the first laws voted by the Members of Forza Italia in the 16th legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have voted on a rule clearly nothing, according to which if the State legitimately revokes a concession, because the concessionaire has collapsed a bridge, the State should pay it until the end of the concession. It is an illegitimate rule, a rule that is nothing, even defined, by independent, eccentric lawyers and as such nothing. Article 9- bis of the Convention, according to the expert report, is null and void because, compared to the reasons for the early termination, it does not distinguish between those attributable to the grantor, those related to the public interest and those related to the failure of the concessionaire, distinction which instead is covered by the law, in the code of contracts. That clause is eccentric to the contractual liability system and is clearly nothing in various respects. It also guarantees to one of the parties a condition of substantial immunity and privilege: immunity and privilege, unfortunately legified by Forza Italia. In addition, Article 1229 of the Civil Code sanction with nullity... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u255	Minister, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u256	Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Let's remember that the decree-law starts from the center-left and has been converted into law by the center-right. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You were right to remind me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u257	Minister, I would ask you to conclude, because we are well beyond the time limit.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u258	Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Thank you, Mr President, and I am about to conclude. In order for the Italian State to sign those contracts with private individuals that conflict with economic law, the previous governments had to make a dirty law, because the administrations of the State and the Court of Auditors would not have been able to pass such a thing, given the obvious risks for the Erario. For this reason a decree-law was made, launched by the Prodi Government and subsequently converted into law - as has already been said - by Parliament by a Berlusconian majority. We are obviously struggling to make up for these catastrophic mistakes. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] We act according to the firm political will not to let the events in Genoa remain without consequences and, more generally, we aim to rebalance relations between private dealers and public concessionaires, in order to put the citizens at the centre. [[Senator Biti's comments.]] In this regard I recall that measures are being implemented in this area, following the decree-law on Genoa by the regulatory authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u259	I invite you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u260	Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I'm about to finish. The Alitalia dossier was also discussed: these are obviously two separate dossiers. We will never be subject to the possible blackmail of those who, in order to enter into such an important dossier, such as Alitalia, seek on the other hand to obtain a safe conduct. The safe conduct, with this Government and the 5 Star Movement to the Government, will never be released. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u261	I give the floor to Senator Ferro to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u262	Mr. Minister, I, like you, have the answer ready, but I don't read it. But she invites me with her speech, without any sense and without any logic, like all her speeches, since she sits in that Ministry, to tell her the following. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Comments from the M5S Group]] We have the companies that require an infrastructure upgrade; we have an economic system that is waiting from your Ministry, from you that has the political responsibility, of the clear answers on the high speed, on the Alitalia company, on the system of the great navigations in the basin of San Marco. When's he picking up? He didn't answer me today either. Wait or don't revoke the concession? [[Comments of Senator Puglia]] We also agree with her: they are two completely distinct floors, but I think you are, with your hat in your hand, asking someone to enter the Alitalia issue. You let her sleep too long, and that's where she burst into your hand. We'll see what happens on Monday. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Minister, give us some answers. He has a lot of questions and questions from our Group and also from other colleagues to answer. She never answers: she is a specialist in slaloming and not answering. He didn't answer me. He keeps chatting and doesn't solve problems. Go back to being an insurer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u263	Senator Santillo has the right to explain question 3-01002 on the adaptation to the safety standards laid down by the National Railway Safety Agency, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u264	Minister, in order to reduce the accidents on the Italian railways, including the so-called isolated railways, that is those not connected to the Italian railway network (there are 14 in Italy, of which the largest is in Campania and is managed by the company in house of the Campania Region EAV, Autonomous Authority Volturno), from December 2017 has begun a program of adaptation to the safety regulations dictated by the National Agency for the safety of the railways (ANSF), to be realized within eighteen months. In particular, the railways will have to adopt the train running control system, a new technology to assist the driver, which allows for greater safety in the train running. As of 1 July 2019, the NSAF (a self-employed body not dependent on the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport) has been responsible for the whole national rail system, including regional routes. Between the regional railway networks still totally discovered is the EAV, failing to respect the safety parameters imposed by the ANSF, regarding the lines of the Circumvesuviana, Cumana, Circumflegrea, Santa Maria Capua Vetere-Piedmonte Matese (in the province of Caserta) and Benevento-Cancello. Since the train's traffic control system has not been set up to protect passengers, the ANSF could impose a much smaller speed limit on the trains than it currently is and thus distort the isolated railways; we are talking about a significant increase in journey times and cancellation of a third of the races, with the result of seeing the reduction of passengers and revenues for the company, with significant risks of budgetary imbalance. Of the 100,000 commuters who take advantage of the service every day, over 30 percent will go to the streets and choose their own car or road transport, due to the disservices announced, with significant consequences to the detriment of road and the environment. It has been learned from press reports that this time limitation will only cover routes where there is only one driver on the train and that the route concerned is the Naples-San Giorgio via Poggioreale, 24 km long. In May 2019 the president of the Campania Region Vincenzo De Luca (of the PD) declared that "the minister Toninelli wants the trains to walk at 50 kilometers per hour." The delay of the EAV in the adoption of the system of control of the march of the train will have effects not only on the safety of the travelers, but also on the same efficiency of the transport service, causing serious inconveniences to the commuters who use daily a railway net essential for the mobility of large part of the Region, limiting its right to mobility. Mr Minister, we ask you if you are aware of the facts you have just described and what are the reasons for the delays in the assembly of the train traffic control system, well nineteen months after the obligation, and what urgent initiatives, as far as you are concerned, you intend to take, including by involving the bodies and stakeholders, in order to guarantee safety standards also for the isolated railway bells. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u265	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u266	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member. In this case we are faced with a sort of paradox of politics: a President of a Region, who is the owner of the infrastructural network (i.e. of the tracks) and the agency that has given in house (so to himself) the management of the regional network of the railway transport, attacks a Minister accusing him of being guilty that the trains go to 50 kilometers per hour and not faster. Of course we fly high. We do not fly to the levels of the President of the Region, who falsely attacks the Minister for responsibility - let us be clear - that they are exclusively of the Campania Region and exclusively of President Vincenzo De Luca. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The latter, despite the funding at its disposal, was unable to engage them and today, unfortunately, 100,000 people, including the bell towers that daily, especially to go and return from work, use the regional trains of Vincenzo De Luca, have continuous disservices. I read articles about hell in rail transport. It is his sole responsibility not having used the money for modernization. The National Agency for the Safety of Railways, planned by law - as you reported - has communicated to the Region, and therefore to its President, that, since the money has not been committed in the investments, the levels of safety are so low that the trains have to slow down. Instead of responding in the same tone as a person who is a comedian and does not have the ability to govern, we do the exact opposite. [[Comments of Senator Bini]] Let us tell President De Luca that we are willing to help, intervene and detect - as we have already done in other cases - the railway network, i.e. the infrastructure, i.e. the tracks, so that we can apply that train traffic control system, which means ensuring not only more safety for passengers, but also greater speed for trains, which results in more trains and greater frequency. This is the proposal that we turn to the one who has resoundingly failed in the management of the most important and widely used means of transport in Campania. Now we will see if he will answer us with another joke as a comedian or finally he will wear the shoes of the President of a wonderful Region, of which we have also unlocked the airport of Salerno Pontecagnano, submerged by problems never solved by the previous governments of its own political color. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will see if with the clothes of the President of the Region will finally face - if he is able - and resolve - if he is able to - the problems of his fellow citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u267	Senator De Lucia may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u268	I thank Minister Toninelli for having decided to intervene and follow up our question, which may seem limited from a territorial point of view, but which, in fact, concerns the many isolated railways in Italy. The situation is probably at the limit in Campania, but it certainly affects the whole country. I really want to stress the fact that not only commuters, in this particular period, suffer a lot because of the serious structural handicaps of the EAV lines of the Campania Region, but also tourists who visit our provinces, who, in order to reach Pompei from Naples - for example - must use the EAV lines. Travelling on trains that go about 45 kilometers per hour, without air conditioning and objectively unsafe, is also a very serious damage for the entire Campania Region. That is why I am pleased that you are constantly urging, and not only on this occasion, the President of our De Luca Region so that, in turn, he can call for the definitive adaptation to all safety regulations. Let us not forget that the latter allow people with disabilities to take advantage of the railways, a possibility which does not exist in our parts. The EAV has almost no structure that makes it possible for a disabled carrier to travel freely on the bell railways. Minister, thank you for your rather engaging reply. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u269	Senator Nisini has the right to explain the question 3-01000 on interventions to overcome the effects of staff turnover blocking in local public administrations for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u270	Minister Bongiorno, given that the turnover blockade in recent years has been used as a means of reducing public expenditure, creating considerable difficulties for public administrations and, in particular, for the regions and local authorities, it is, however, on these players that a very important amount of work is required, especially in view of the need to ensure quality services and to meet the needs of citizens and businesses. Moreover, given that the numerous growth measures introduced by the Government require, now more than ever, young, qualified and motivated human resources, in order to give a new impetus to the economy of the country, it is asked to know what measures the Minister in address intends to take in order to allow the regions and local authorities to quickly have the necessary human resources to meet the needs described in the premise and to revive the quality of the services offered by the public administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Public Administration, Senator Bongiorno, may reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u271	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I believe that it was a serious mistake to think that public administration could be cut for years. Public administration has a bad reputation and perhaps, at the level of electoral consensus, it is easy to cut, but cutting public administration means cutting services, cutting security, cutting justice. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This government has made an absolutely different choice, with a 360 degree reversal of course. Since January 1, 2019 the turnover is 100% insured. As for the staff of the regions and municipalities, I mean that specific measures have been taken which will allow new recruitments already in the course of the year and to a greater extent than the number of terminations and, therefore, will be recruited more subject than those that cease from the service. I would like to point out, in particular, Article 33 of the Decree-Law on Growth, which is really important, because it introduces a regulation on recruitment that enhances the amount of revenue and takes into account the number of inhabitants. That's new. More specifically, the number of recruitments will no longer depend solely on the resources available as a result of retirements, but also on other parameters: the number of inhabitants, the size of the additional revenue of the individual Region or the individual municipality and the number of employees in service. The municipalities and regions that will find themselves under the limit of staff expenditure, which will be indicated by two decrees of the Minister for Public Administration, will be able to carry out hirings beyond the turnover. Those who exceed this expenditure limit will have to reduce staff expenditure, but gradually, according to arrangements to be completed by 2025. The procedure for approving the two implementing decrees obviously involves the State-Regions Conference and the State-City Conference and local autonomy. I would point out that the development of both measures is at a very advanced stage and is mainly focusing on the identification of criteria which, while respecting the constitutional constraints and those contained in the primary rule, make a decisive contribution - as I said before - to the size of the resident population (the so-called demographic population). I believe that in this way we will finally have new recruitments that will allow the Regions and the municipalities to have professionalism that, by number, training and competence, can better respond to the needs of the community and the territories that are notoriously not homogeneous. It is obvious that we are taking really important measures at the moment. We are doing this very quickly. This is a real reversal of the way in which public administration is understood. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u272	Senator Nisini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u273	Minister, I am very pleased and I say this first as a local administrator. They are councilman in a municipality, like many Senators of the League who are administrators, city councilors, mayors and councilors. For years, we have suffered the unholy policies of previous governments, which have chosen to block recruitment in order to reduce public spending. Now you're finally going in another direction. The local authorities, and especially the municipalities, have not only had considerable difficulties, but have also been brought to their knees by those oppositions which, during the general discussion of the decree in practice, have spoken of an inadequate measure that does not put the citizen at the centre, which does not provide for improvements in services and a generational replacement. I am happy because I believe that today the oppositions present have really understood what we are talking about: at the center there is the citizen, the recruitment of young people is increasing - there will no longer be an average age of fifty-three years - and the services will therefore be provided by them quickly - and so to speak - fresher and even with an extra smile on their lips because they are included in the public sector, discriminated against and put aside by previous governments, and therefore in need of the new turning point that the current Government is giving them. At 100 there are 50,208 requests for retirement: with a turnover of 100 percent you give a response to the generational change, giving space also to young people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u274	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u275	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-132.ana.u276	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15:52 a.m.
