ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.01 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u4	The next item is: Communication from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the situation in Syria I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators and senators for the request for this information - fifteen days after I have spoken to the House - so that I can give an update on the dramatic situation in the North East of Syria, which has been aggravated by the Turkish military operation called the Source of Peace. First of all, I would like to reiterate the Government's greatest commitment to a firm and united position of the international community in response to the Turkish attack and to prevent this element of instability from spreading to the whole region. As you know, Italy has acted immediately to strongly condemn Turkey's initiative and to urge it to withdraw its troops from Syria. We have acted in synergy with our allies and partners, because we are convinced that bloody conflicts such as the one we have been witnessing for almost nine years in Syria cannot be resolved by using additional force. This conviction is based on our commitment, not only in Syria but throughout the region, and stabilising it has a strategic value for our national security. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have urged the international community, first and foremost the European Union, to be united in condemning the Turkish attack in Syria. First of all, in the European Union, we have succeeded in achieving the objective, which on the eve of this event was far from obvious, of bringing together the twenty-eight countries on a single position of firm condemnation. The Foreign Affairs Council, which I took part in on 14 October last, urged Turkey in its conclusions to stop military operations immediately; expressed Ankara's firm condemnation of the action it has taken and its serious humanitarian consequences, stressing the dangers that it is also likely to generate in the regional context; reiterated that there is no military solution to the Syrian crisis, which must be pursued exclusively through diplomatic channels and in full respect of humanitarian law; called for a firm stance by the international community, and in particular by the UN Security Council, to stop this unilateral military action; and reiterated the refusal of any assistance by the European Union with a view to stabilisation and development in those areas, in Syria, where the rights of the civilian population are violated. In particular, at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union as Italy we made it clear that all 28 Member States needed to start arms exports to Turkey. And this invitation was accepted in the Council's conclusions. As far as Italy is concerned, in line with the decisions taken in Luxembourg, I have decided to suspend all granting of our permits to exports of weapons equipment to Turkey. On an Italian initiative, we also started the 28-year debate in Brussels. The aim is to harmonise their national arms export policies to Turkey. To date, nine of the 28 Member States have no trade with Turkey; four are considering what policy to implement; eleven have decided to suspend the granting of authorisations; two will assess on a case-by-case basis and two have suspended both existing and new authorisations. Finally - as I foretold - I have arranged to open an inquiry into existing Italian authorisations. This investigation is being finalized and I will be able to update you on the results shortly. The decisions taken at the Foreign Affairs Council were reiterated in the conclusions adopted by the leaders at the European Council on 17 and 18 October. We have also expressed our condemnation of Turkey's action in NATO. Last week, we also announced in the Atlantic Council Italy's decision no longer to participate in the Active Fence mission, which is currently deployed in the South of Turkey near the Syrian border. Italy has in fact arranged the return of our soldiers and confirmed the start of the logistic activities for the timely withdrawal of our Samp-T anti-missile battery. The European Parliament has expressed itself with equal firmness, which, while recognising the legitimate needs of Turkish security, approved by acclamation, on 24 October, a motion to censor Turkey's military action and to demand that these concerns be addressed by political and diplomatic means. We must not forget - and we must not forget them - the relations that bind us to Ankara. Turkey is a key ally in NATO, but this does not prevent us from asking her to act responsibly in an extremely complex regional framework. We have a duty to express our disagreement with his actions and the duty to commit ourselves to seeking immediately acceptable and sustainable solutions to the crisis. I would remind you that, immediately after the start of military operations, we called the Turkish ambassador to Rome to Farnesina, and on 17 October the President of the Council had a telephone conversation with President Erdogan, during which our position was confirmed with determination. There is another very important area in which we are developing our action: that of the anti-Daesh coalition. Since the beginning of operations in the North-East, we have denounced that Turkey's offensive is in danger of seriously harming the coalition's efforts in recent years and of jeopardising the results that have been achieved in eliminating the territorial threat of the Caliphate; results achieved, above all, thanks to the Kurdish forces, to which all our gratitude goes. We have intensified our dialogue with our partners to call to responsibility all the countries involved in the fight against terrorism. We joined in calling for a ministerial coalition meeting to be held in Washington on 14 November, also communicating our willingness to host in the near future a new enlarged ministerial meeting of the anti-Daesh coalition. I would also like to focus now on the latest developments on the ground. After the violent clashes of the first days, with a toll of victims among the unacceptable civilian population, the Turkish armed forces, flanked by Syrian national army militias, took control of an area of about 1,500 square kilometers, extending along the border line between the urban centers of Tell Abyad and Ras al Ain, entering Syrian territory for 32 kilometers. An agreement between the Kurdish forces and the Damascus regime, mediated by Moscow, has made possible a repositioning of the Syrian armed forces, supported by the already present Russian army units. Damascus's army managed to deploy to the west of the Euphrates in the Manbij region, on the border with Turkey, in the city of Kobane, symbol of the struggle against Daesh, torn from terrorists only through the sacrifice of Kurdish fighters. On this scenario, on 17 October, the agreement between Turkey and the United States was inserted, which allowed to reach a ceasefire of one hundred and twenty hours (five days) and a first retreat of the Kurdish forces that left Ras al Ain. Subsequently, after the meeting in Sochi between President Putin and President Erdogan on 22 October, the Turkey-Russia agreement was announced with a further ceasefire of 150 hours (six days) from 23 October. The terms of the agreement that the parties have announced include: the creation of a safe zone in the area currently controlled by Turkish forces from Tell Abyad to Ras al Ain, which extends across Syrian territory for 32 kilometers; the redevelopment of joint Russian-Syrian forces along the remaining border line and up to the depth of 30 kilometers, with the aim of facilitating the removal of militias and weapons belonging to the Kurdish forces of the People's Protection Unit to be completed within 150 hours of the beginning of the new truce; after that expiry, the creation of joint Russian-Turkish patrols along the entire border line outside the safe zones, except the city of Qamishli, pushing up to 10 kilometers; the removal of militias and weapons of the People's Protection Unit from Manbij to Tell Rifaat, east of the Euphrates. I am convinced that the firm condemnation by the international community of the Turkish military operation has played a role in the achievement of the two tribes. With regard to future prospects, following the agreement reached in Sochi with Russia, also endorsed by the Government of Damascus, the Turkish Minister of Defence announced the interruption of the operation called the Source of Peace. The ceasefire in the fighting is certainly a good thing, but there remains a strong uncertainty as to the prospects for lasting peace in North-East Syria. Turkey has already expressed its willingness to continue to strike the Kurdish forces if they continue to operate in border areas. For us, any development that puts an end to armed clashes is to be welcomed, but there are some questions that we are asking about the content of the understanding that Ankara and Moscow have reached, as well as made public, in particular about its impact on the start of the political process. This is also in the light of the agreement reached on the beginning of the work, just today, 30 October, of the Constitutional Committee that will have to accompany the path of political dialogue between the various components of the country. We are open to all solutions which, peacefully and through dialogue and diplomacy, can lead to a definitive cessation of hostilities, the withdrawal of the Turkish armed forces from Syria, full respect for international law and international humanitarian law. We are ready to discuss constructively and in the appropriate fora the achievement of these objectives, in line with the contribution Italy already makes to the stabilisation of the region. However, we are not prepared to endorse 'demographic engineering' projects which aim to change the ethnic balance in the North-East. This is a key principle that we are following across Syria and on which the European Union has always expressed itself clearly and clearly. With the same determination we will ensure that the return of refugees to Syria can take place, in line with the standards set by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, exclusively on a voluntary basis, in full safety and in a dignified manner. One aspect on which attention must be kept high is the fight against Daesh. The death of its leader Al Baghdadi is another step forward to neutralize the terrorist threat posed by Daesh, which remains very serious and current. We cannot afford to disperse the results achieved so far. That is why the coalition meeting is important: it will allow us, in fact, to update our strategy against terrorists to reality on the ground. Beyond the specific context of the Syrian North-East and considering the crisis as a whole, I would like to reiterate that we support and support the launch of a credible and inclusive political process, under the aegis of the United Nations, along the path outlined by Security Council Resolution 2254. This is the only sustainable path to bring peace back to Syria, one of the countries symbolizing those identities that characterize the Mediterranean. We need the international community to act in a compact manner, setting aside territorial partition logics that are only likely to exacerbate the situation further on the ground. And we continue to work so that all key actors in the Syrian situation engage in frank and open dialogue. Pending a political solution, Italy will continue to be close to the Syrian people and to provide humanitarian assistance throughout the country. We believe that it is essential to continue to make the Turkish Government responsible with dialogue, encouraging a de-escalation through the action of our diplomacies. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u7	Mr President, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for being here with us today and for reporting on the issue of Syria. In your information to the Chamber of Deputies of 15 October last - as you have just mentioned - you, Minister, have claimed a number of positive results - and others have mentioned them today - that would have been obtained by Italy in the international assembly together with European partners. He then stated, among other things, that an Italian proposal aimed at opening up a deep reflection on the blockade of arms exports to Turkey had been accepted. With regard to Italy, directly and specifically, you, Minister, also announced that you would sign all the necessary acts to block arms exports to Turkey, blocking future exports. However, as far as future exports are concerned, he basically announced that he wanted to start an immediate investigation, which he also mentioned today, but whose results he has not yet given us. On 15 October an investigation would be started, but after fourteen days it has not yet ended with respect to a fact which, on the other hand, has a clear urgency. We must ask ourselves whether there really is a need for an investigation or whether Italian law already provides what the Italian Government should do. Law No 185 of 1990, as amended several times, states, in article 1, paragraph 6, that authorisations already granted when a country is at war must be suspended and/or revoked. Therefore, the supply of armament materials cannot be authorized to a country in war, not even as a transit. It happened in Genoa with a ship a few months ago. Mr. Minister, there is no need for any investigation; it is only necessary to observe the Italian law, which today prescribes that Italy cannot supply directly - or through - arms to a country in war. The location is very simple. It is clear, however, that its Ministry has all the duty - yes - to ensure that other countries do not take speculative positions towards Italy. In the meantime, we must do our duty and you must do yours, that is, comply with Italian law. I believe that, beyond the defence of the Italian position within a European cohesive group, there must be respect for Italian law, which is also consistent with the Treaty of 2013 in relation to the criteria of suspension and revocation in the matter of supply and sale of arms. We are not talking here only about future or existing contracts, because the existing contract could provide - as it usually provides - for deliveries staggered for a long time, so for several years. We must immediately suspend supplies because this imposes Italian law today. There is no need - I repeat - for any infancy, Minister. You don't have to hide behind hypothetical instructors. As the law says well, the investigation will be done to grant, to evaluate the granting of the authorization, and not to deny it when there are the conditions of suspension and/or revocation. That's the point. There is no assessment to be made; these are due acts, Minister, imposed by the law in force. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u8	I greet the students of the secondary school of first degree...Luigi Pirandello in Montedoro, in the province of Caltanissetta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u10	Mr President, I have listened carefully to Mr Di Maio's report. Let's say that today he moved with diplomatic prudence, Minister, compared to what he did in some previous episodes, when he supported Maduro or when he made an inappropriate visit to the yellow vests of Paris. However, I found it lacking in the overall design of what is happening in Syria. Minister, he failed to define the agreements for what they are: those that are manifesting themselves on the ground are the Astana agreements, which were followed by the Soči agreement signed directly by Erdogan and Putin; but the result obtained in Soči is the son of the Astana talks, which are the only ones that seem to be valid in terms of peace and stabilisation of the territory. And Astana's talks are between Turkey, Iran and Russia, the real protagonists of this affair. The agreement you mentioned, signed in Soči, also refers to the Adana agreements, between Syria and Turkey in 1998, in which Turkey obtained from the then father of the current President Bashar al-Assad, Hafiz al-Assad, the possibility to intervene directly in Syrian territory where the threat of the Pkk, which already existed at the time, was considered dangerous by Turkey itself. The evocation of that agreement has allowed today's agreement, in the sense that today a security band of 30 kilometers in Syrian territory and a surveillance band of 10 kilometers, always in Syrian territory have been created. It happens, however, at the same time as the Astana and Sochi agreements, the American troops withdrew. The American troops had always guarded that band to protect the Kurds from Turkey. It happens, however, when the agreement was made and Erdogan threatened to invade Syria, the American troops - a thousand men - were withdrawn and removed from the border. This means that Astana's agreement was a much more complex international agreement. It happens, Minister, a few days later Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is killed in a village in Idlib, which is a north-western province of Syria where militants are still present, fighters, the famous rebels, now finally defined for what they are, jihadists and terrorists. There he had nested al-Baghdadi, with his family and his family. Things don't happen randomly. It means that there is an international plan, and I am concerned that there is one, because Europe and Italy are completely excluded from it. And they are completely excluded - and it is very serious that they are - because you, Minister, did not mention two other Syrian names this morning. One is Ain Issa and the other is Al Hol. In Ain Issa there are 12,000 fighters of Daesh, who had been held there by Kurdish militias, and in Al Hol there are 75,000 relatives, relatives, children, sisters, wives and mothers, of Daesh fighters, who are radicalizing. That generation of children present at Al Hol today is radicalizing. If you surf the Internet, you will see young boys and girls, aged between eight and ten years, who are already inciting hatred and war against Western countries. Nobody talks about this, but that is the problem we have in terms of security. If the Americans do not have this problem, the European countries do. When the Americans withdraw from the Syrian-Turkish border, they leave in the hands of the Kurds, already weakened by the political and military defeat suffered on the ground, the custody of the fighters - among which I repeat there are many foreign fighters, many English, many French, German and Dutch and perhaps even some Italian - and of those 75,000 of their relatives and relatives, who are organizing themselves in a camp, which is not of imprisonment, but of refugees. There are also international organizations in that field, but its environment is typical of the culture of Islamic fundamentalism. I ask you, then, what role we can play. There is, then, a final remark about what happened, and not casually, as I tried to say before. The Syrian Government is involved in this agreement. The much-deprecated and vilified Syrian government is today defending the Kurds from Turkey, because it is patrolling with Russia the Turkish Syrian border and is, after all, defending its Kurdish-Syrian community from the attacks of Turkey, according to the Astana agreements and according to the evocative Adana agreement. This means that there has been, tendingly - I use an adverb - a rehabilitation of the Syrian regime, which is participating in a peace process; the peace process taking place in Geneva - and you mentioned this, Minister - and which is only Syrian - thanks to heaven - with the delegation to Pedersen, which seems to me a person who is moving well, after the many attempts made by an Italian, by Staffan de Mistura - is a friend whom I greet - who has done an extraordinary job, but has not succeeded in its intent because the times of a recomposition of Syrian society were not yet ripe. Today, the 150 of the Constitutional Committee - 50 indicated by the Government, 50 from oppositions and 50 from civil society - will seek - the time, however, is long: Pedersen spoke of twelve months - to reach an agreement on the new constitutional form which - by chance - should also solve the problem of Syrian Kurdistan on the basis of the agreements; it should provide for a federal constitution allowing the autonomy that the Kurds have always demanded, not being allowed an autonomous State; a formula similar to that of Iraq in which Iraqi Kurdistan remains within the framework of the national state, even indicating the President of the Iraqi Republic, but with very large autonomy also - for example - in the exploitation of oil. But there's another problem in Geneva. Because of the inattention of a minister of a previous government of a couple of years ago - I do not quote - Italy is not part of what has been called the small group. Small groups are part of the United States, France, Germany and Great Britain, but not Italy. I remind you that we are among the countries of the G7, the one closest to Syria, with a projection and a Mediterranean vocation that should allow us to be present in that small group of which Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia are also part. This means that, once again, only Italy - this time not Europe - is excluded from a process of participation and peace. Fortunately, I know that Farnesina, in recent months, has indicated a person who is in charge of Syria, who was in Geneva yesterday and with whom you have spoken. I know you're working so that in the next few weeks and months Italy can join that group. Attention: I'm not over-dimensioning the role. The Syrians must write their constitution. The participation of the international community is necessary and mandatory, but it will be a substantial ratification of the work that will be carried out there. However, I believe that Italy, once again together with Europe, should have the opportunity to participate more actively and actively in the process of peace and stabilisation, also because immediately afterwards, Minister, I hope that the time for reconstruction will come. We are talking about 500 billion dollars for the reconstruction of that extraordinary country and I still remember very quietly that we, before 2011, and that is before this wretched war, were the first trading partner of Syria. Minister, I am leaving out the jokes about Turkey because they frankly leave the time they find: Turkey intervenes because there is an international agreement. I understand that we must rightly and formally condemn Turkey today because it has attacked and invaded Syria, entering a 30-kilometer border belt, and has used the most criminal militias that can exist. They don't take prisoners in this little war. Syrian and Kurdish soldiers taken prisoner are beheaded as soon as they are captured. We are witnessing indecent and unclean facts and the Turks are responsible for the management of those militias. However, that is no longer the problem. Today, the Italian problem is what attitude to Syria. You know, Minister, that less than a month ago, together with a small delegation, I spoke with President Bashar and the Prime Minister and I tried to understand how much the Government and the Syrian authorities can be able to intercept the changes that are mandatory in that society after ten years of war. I think they are tending to be inadequate, but it is precisely because of their possible inadequacy that we need to participate. And our participation is measured by the reopening of diplomatic relations with the Syrian Government. But the possibility of reopening diplomatic relations goes through the blocking and repealing of sanctions. Cardinal Pietro Parolin, in the last General Assembly, from the top of the experience of the Catholic Church - two thousand years of diplomatic precautionary history - said two fundamental things: first, sanctions must be abolished and secondly: After eight painful years of conflict it is necessary, indeed urgent, to overcome political stagnation and to have the courage to seek new ways of dialogue and new solutions with a spirit of realism. These are his words that Parolin uttered in front of him. At the General Assembly of the United Nations and I have the impression that this is a lesson that we could also listen to as Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u11	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u12	Mr President, the first question we should ask ourselves is whether or not we are satisfied with the Minister's report today. The second question that we should ask ourselves with honesty, however, is whether, if we had been in the place of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we would have been in a position to be more satisfactory or would have basically repeated what he said this morning. Dear colleagues, I challenge anyone to say that, if this morning had been in the place of Minister Di Maio, he would have given solutions that unfortunately we are not able to give, not only because - as Senator Romani said - we are in a state of semi-irrelevancy with respect to the Syrian theme that is emerging in the international and Mediterranean context, but because this substantial irrelevance today characterizes Europe as a whole and we, talking about the tragedy of the Kurds and this sort of Turkish assertiveness that allows that country to do almost what it wants in the area, unfortunately we must talk about ourselves and look at ourselves in the mirror. Other than Di Maio, Government and President of the European Commission: this dramatic process sees a new definition of the Mediterranean structures, which are written against or in a completely indifferent way to European wishes. Colleagues, this is the dramatic reality, we must be honest. That is why frankly, Minister, I say to you that you consider the analysis you have made very serious, because there were no alternatives and unfortunately this is the reality you photographed. You have expressed solidarity with the Kurds, which I share: I have been to Iraqi Kurdistan, I have taken part several times in visits by parliamentary delegations and I know that the reality of the Syrian Kurds is different, but nevertheless we express this solidarity. How much of this solidarity, however, translates into effective operation? Very little, unfortunately, because we have constraints determined by the situation, despite Italy playing a role in that area. Let us not forget, for example, that we are witnessing the explosion in Lebanon today: if it has not already exploded in a much more dangerous way than we could have expected in the past, it was also because of the military intervention force that Italy has there, with hundreds of soldiers, equipment and even costs for our State. He used an expression that I really like: the stabilisation of the Mediterranean is the Italian national interest. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and unfortunately we see what happens: Algeria is in a dramatic situation, among other things with a society much younger than others and completely assisted by energy resources; there is the situation in Egypt, which is certainly worrying; Libya is a powder keg and now there are Lebanon and Syria with millions of refugees. So, Minister, let's get things in line. I have a very concrete one to give you, on which I would like you to take on a political battle in Europe, because that is a reality. There are 6,000 foreign fighters who today do not know who is in custody and who are essentially rejected by Europe, who does not accept responsibility for the management of these prisoners and does so by cowardice. Now, I can understand that Trump says that this problem does not concern him, but the fact is that there are British, French, German and perhaps even Italian citizens (as Senator Romani said) of whom we are not responsible, yet it is a fundamental problem for Europe. This cannot be a responsibility on this side, because then we are not in the right to say that we are fighting terrorism and we are engaged on this front: it is just talking about our own, if we do not assume a minimum of responsibility. I'm asking you this, beyond the documents. By representing the Group for the Autonomies, I shall vote for the document presented by the majority, which I have seen and which is responsible for, but there is a need for a serious and decent European battle on this. Of course - and I say this to my colleagues - what we are witnessing today in this Mediterranean is a reflection not only of that division between Shia and Sunni that allowed Iran - let us be clear - to create a sort of highway from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea, passing through Iraq, Syria and Hezbollah in Lebanon. No, there is something more here today: it is a dramatic fracture of the Sunni front, with inter-sunny divisions that come from afar and risk complicating an already jagged picture. Europe does not exist and the Italian one is one of the European governments, so we must all see our impotence. I want to end by saying one thing: can we take charge of this impotence to the Count Government? Of course, if we want to do political demagogy, we can say that the responsibility lies with the Italian Government. If we are serious people, we must admit that the real responsibility lies with those who over the years have not understood that, without a common defence, security and foreign policy, Europe cannot be a reality that guarantees our interests. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not to have less Europe and to be sovereignists, because national sovereignism simply makes people laugh in relation to such an agitated international context: the problem is to become European sovereignists and to ask for a sort of real presence in Europe's foreign and defence policy. It is unacceptable that our French friends in Libya continue to have an antithetical policy to that of Italy and other European countries, such as Germany itself. In the face of this reality, I have faith in you, in the Government and in Parliament. I think it was good for President Romani, who led the interparliamentary section, to throw his heart out of the way. Let us be clear and ask ourselves a question: do we like the idea of reconnecting diplomatic relations with Syria? Or do we want to save our beautiful soul by saying that, as an anti-democratic country that has also made humanitarian disasters, do we not contaminate ourselves with it? Very well: unfortunately, foreign policy is not a masked dance, but a tough thing, which also requires a certain cynicism (why not?); We are not in a world of white and beautiful souls, it would be too beautiful and we would like it. We must unite ideality and the defense of moral values with the necessary taking of action of the reality that is defined in the field. I also ask, then, that on the subject of Syria, Minister - even if not now, before 300 Members - there should be a meditation, taking into account the importance of the relationship between the parliaments that we have always cultivated, because there is a need to take note that a situation is emerging which - as you said - concerns our interests, as regards the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and IV-PSI and Senator Bernini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u13	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the two speeches that have preceded me and which I largely share, I just want to add two important comments. This is a crisis that comes from afar, that we have and that I followed as Minister. Even at the time when there was a group of friends of Syria, I told myself that, if those were friends of Syria, it was useless to look for enemies, because they were exactly in the same room. On the question of arms, on which another colleague has already spoken, it would be useful to understand whether we have interrupted the current orders or whether we are just thinking of interrupting the next ones: it would be, moreover, a matter of clarity. I should like to add two comments to what Mr Casini said. The European states and governments in this crisis, as in others, were sympathetic or disliked spectators, but still grumbling, when Turkey started the operation, after a clear green light from Trump, but today it has rethinked it and individually, without having agreed it with anyone, declared sanctions to Syria and I don't know what else. We have been witty observers, because perhaps we lack the political will, but certainly the instruments of a common foreign and defence policy. We have therefore observed. We have observed a little more positively the raid against Al-Baghdadi, with great dust: however, moaning or gay, always observers we are, and this is the issue that must be addressed immediately. Also because the Kurdish lords driven out of their lands, in your opinion, where do they go? Of course, in urgency they will go to Assad's controlled lands, but their future is not there, it is not conceivable of course. So are we getting ready or, when they start coming to us, are we gonna pretend we didn't think about it? I am not talking about foreign fighters or fighters, about which Mr Romani spoke in his speech, which I share. Who keeps these 6,000 or 10,000 jihadist fighters in Turkish-Syrian land anymore? I no longer know where they go to gather, but it is clear that the killing of Al-Baghadi may have put an end to the illusion of the Islamic State, but not to jihadism, terrorism and their roots, which are Sunni, just to be clear (the whole Sunni world is split into various militias, with very unstable alliances, because you never know well with whom they are allies). I also think that this crisis risks overwhelming Lebanon, which, as you know, is already home to more than a million refugees and whose crisis, following the recent resignation of the Hariri Government, is indeed in danger of exploding. In conclusion, if we come closer to us, on Libya I surrender, because we have seen all kinds of them, I take the opportunity to tell you that, in any case, to think - as I think you are doing - of continuing Salvini's policy without him, with the blockade of NGOs, is not a great idea, nor does it mark a great discontinuity. [[Applause from Senators De Falco and Nugnes.]] Some steps can be taken: Italy tries to be part of that group. We always have a tendency to stay out, as with Iran, for some dark reason, but foreign policy is not so: we have to stand with our backs straight. When a house burns, the fire must be put out: at least see if it can be done, but the consequences are serious; let us prepare for an exodus of refugees, we must not find out when they arrive. Let us also prepare to understand who is now guarding the jihadists who were in Kurdish custody. Who's doing this job? Who has to do it? Does the international community, however it is called, not even this can do? Moving towards areas closer to us, the whole Mediterranean is on fire and it is difficult, if not almost impossible, to find a political process for a nation if the others are not involved, because the regional powers besides us matter. The fundamental point is that if European states continue to be spectators, more or less muzzling, and perhaps give human rights lessons or don't know what, we will be irrelevant, as we are now. I do not think that there is an Italian solution to this tragedy, so I do not charge you anything: of course we should do what we have to do; we try, for example, not to forget Libya, because these days the emergency is Syria. It is not so: if it spreads - because these things are contagious - we will obviously suffer all the consequences, as it affects us as spectators. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow Senators, the debate that we are about to discuss today addresses issues and issues that only seem to seem distant from our country and which, on the other hand, are extremely close to Italy because of its geographical and political proximity. We then have a duty to say this forcefully, first of all: we are with the Kurdish people. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Nugnes]] , with his women and his men, who resisted, at the cost of the sacrifice of their lives, the advance of Daesh, of that ISIS of which, only to pronounce its name, the whole West is frightened. It is a people, the Kurdish one, who defended Kobane and reconquered the city of Raqqa, Syrian capital of Daesh, with the sacrifice of so many men and with the courage of so many women, which became a symbol of that extraordinary and valiant battle. Even from the point of view of the cultural message, through the valorization of the role of women, as a result of a matriarchal society, the Kurds have been able to mark the field in a region not known for this kind of attention. This is a proximity, therefore, which obliges us to intervene with all the instruments available to the institutions that each of us represents here today. Peace in Syria, the geopolitical stability of that area and the lives of the people who populate it must remain for us all a priority and an objective to be pursued, first of all asking Europe for a concrete commitment and a greater effort to assume responsibility for taking responsibility for peace policies, in an area where war and violence are bringing further destruction, death and pain, which are added to the dramatic conditions resulting from the conflict against Daesh. In this context, Italy has an obligation to play a fundamental role, especially in Europe, so that the need for a common European foreign policy, which makes all its choices felt in the international context, can be stressed more courageously. Today Europe still seems too weak and unable to represent a single and decisive entity. He is absent in the role of mediator who should play instead. Italy, also for this reason and in light of the weight it has, has the duty to do its part. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bloody images of the death of Hevrin Khalaf and the frame of the video with which pro-Turkish militiamen mercilessly execute a young 35-year-old woman, Secretary-General of the Syrian Future Party and activist for women's rights and coexistence among peoples, hurt all of us and cannot leave us indifferent. They decided to torture and execute one of the symbols of a model of society in which jihadists do not recognize each other. It is not by chance: they strike that objective because it represents a model of society that fights for peaceful coexistence between peoples, democracy, the rights and dignity of men and women and that is precisely why it represents a danger. The women and men of the Kurdish people are defending these supreme values with their dignity. That is why the Syrian question also concerns us and affects us closely. We have sincerely appreciated the words of Minister Di Maio: I am referring both to those today and to those affirmed when he called the Turkish ambassador to Italy, strongly condemning Turkish aggression, defining it for what it is, namely blackmail, that Italy does not accept (as well as the threat of President Erdogan sending 3.6 million Syrian refugees to Europe). You, Minister, have also made clear words about the arms embargo on Turkey, suspending the granting of new supplies for the acquisition of Italian weapons materials to Turkey. This decision is in line with other European countries such as Germany, France, the Netherlands, Norway and Finland. On this point, the Italia Viva-PSI Group asks the Government to take one more step: the immediate blocking of the sale of arms cannot fail to involve the orders already in place. We are talking about the weapons that are ready to leave for Turkey and that will be the instrument to continue a terrible war that we all loudly call for to stop. We must therefore be consistent and follow-up to the words we are saying: Italy undertakes not to send even one ammunition and one weapon to Turkey. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senators De Falco and Rojc]] Colleagues, it is peaceful to say that with what we are witnessing we are facing the risk of a real emergency. Despite the ceasefire, reports from Turkey have continued showing clear and apparent violations of human rights. Amnesty International's report these days shows that hundreds of Syrian asylum seekers in Turkey have been threatened and forced to return to Syria. If we think that only in Turkey there are about 3.6 million Syrians fleeing their country, we can have the right perception of what is happening and it could happen to these people and we cannot allow it in any way. For this reason, the Italian Group Viva-PSI has requested that the Government undertake to intervene in the United Nations to provide for the deployment of a multilateral intervention force on the basis of a UN mandate, in agreement with Russia and Turkey, with peacekeeping objectives. Today we are called to give an answer to a people who are asking for help. Italy Viva-PSI therefore supports the motion for a resolution under discussion and invites the Government to act with the utmost determination in the direction indicated in the text that we will vote on. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senators Alfieri and Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, Senator Casini said earlier if we are satisfied with your report and if, of course, it exhausts the task entrusted to you within the Government. This should be asked of the members of his Group, considering their absence: the Movimento 5 Stars should have been here to applaud it, but frankly I was very surprised by its absence and the large hole left between its benches. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Do not hesitate, however: at the moment when your interest corresponds to that of the country, we will be here to applaud it, because it has a task today, which is not to represent the Movimento 5 Stars abroad, but Italy. I like to think that he started doing it, maybe slowly, because he's been shooting very little these weeks. Certainly, in relations with other countries, ours needs to strengthen and resume position, something that perhaps Senator Casini thinks in his heart that he can do better than her, obviously in the light of his great experience since he also managed to get elected, as a Christian Democrat, in Bologna, a reality of communists, those who once ate children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, Minister, I recommend that you pay attention to the advisers around you, because there is no doubt that Turkey and its relations with Syria are playing a much larger game than unfortunately on the news and on television. All this could not have happened if there had not been a prior check-okay by the so-called superpowers. We have then seen the end of the history of al-Baghdadi in recent days and this says that evidently the speech and the drawing were much wider. The League has been saying for years that Turkey has nothing to do with Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] However, there is still political action with Turkey which owls. You see, Minister Di Maio, Europe has financed not with millions but with billions of euros in Turkey: since 2000 there have been EUR 30 billion in funding from the European Investment Bank, and since 2002 there have been EUR 10 billion in funding. We are not talking about those data to manage borders, which the League has always been against. History should be studied a bit: when the Roman Empire began to decay and at the borders peace was bought to keep quiet, the price and blackmail increased more and more and weakness became more and more manifest. That is the weakness that Europe is paying for this time too. You have a good idea, in describing the situation you found in Brussels where you went to talk to your European colleagues, that we managed to impose the arms embargo on Turkey. It must also be borne in mind, however, that Turkey increased its military spending by 65% between 2009 and 2018 to EUR 19 billion: they stocked up, they are not here to wait for us to sell them ammunition. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This happened while we warned the European Union well against convivial relations with Turkey, because Erdogan does not care about the European Union at all, but blackmail for money, uses relations between Sunnis and Shiites to make foreign policy and stands in the middle of the European Union, on the one hand, Russia, on the other, and the United States, on the other hand, across the Atlantic. Seeing or not seeing these things makes the difference between day and night. As we said all this, his allies of government continued to insist that Turkey should enter the European Union, rather to facilitate its relationship, despite that being an illiberal country, where repressions against the press and freedom of opinion are on the agenda. Today you have them in the government with you and you have brought them back, those of the Democratic Party: they were the ones who went to Europe to plead Turkey as a new member of the Union. Do not make this mistake again, similar to flirting with the Chinese, thinking that they can come to invest in Italy, because they only care to cross it. We must be able to have Italy represented by a Minister for Foreign Affairs who knows that the interest of Italians certainly cannot be second to that of French, German, Dutch or Luxembourgers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Minister, this is a situation in which Europe must be deeply ashamed. To have kept quiet and to have remained silent about the massacre that has been done against the Kurds has no justification. He used the expression "ethnic engineering" before: what they are doing today is ethnic substitution, other than engineering. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They expelled the Kurds from their territories to include Syrian immigrants of Sunni faith who were in Turkey. Faced with this, we wonder once again what our country's foreign policy is, but we do not understand it and we cannot see it; It is not just us who do not see it from within Parliament, however, because neither do the other countries, since they do not notice our foreign policy action. We must be serious about this, but on the point you are certainly very weak, because our Government is represented in Europe by a President-in-Office of the Council such as Count, who has to read the 'Finncial Times' according to the day (if that's all right, if that's odd no). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On these points one loses or gains credibility. The situation of the Kurdish people is devastating, but I am very concerned to think that the management of Italian foreign policy may perhaps be subject to action not to disturb other European countries. Of course, the French have crossed paths with regard to the enlargement of the European Union and have crossed the Balkans. There is an important route that interests us, because at the borders of Friuli-Venezia Giulia we will still find ourselves reopening the Balkan route; the French do it and we are watching, maybe getting a little angry. I would like to make a parenthesis because I also like to remember that there is still an open game compared to those areas off Corsica that at night the Government of the Democratic Party gave way to France without even passing by Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Make clear also about these events with your government allies and restore the goodness of this country. In fact, as I said before, Mr Di Maio, when it is necessary to make Italy's interest we have, even if its party supporters are lacking to applaud it: however, a serious, honest and concrete commitment is needed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin with a statement: once upon a time there was foreign policy (even in this House there will have been, at a high level); today we have a summary of the situation in this area. I say this in order to immediately express a negative opinion on his report, which we consider unsatisfactory (but I will explain why). On the other hand, let us start from a positive point of view: that ceasefire in the conflict was a relief for the world, but we must not forget the continuing humanitarian spill-over, the alert and the alarm, about which we have not found any interesting statements in the report we have just heard. I would now like to turn to another point included in your report, which, in fact, we in the Defence Committee had already been brought forward this morning to the Joint Commissions at the hearing of the Minister of Defence, who informed us of the withdrawal, or rather of the failure to extend the current mission, which will expire on 31 December. The Brothers of Italy Group had submitted two questions on this subject, one to the House and one to the Senate, precisely to ask what was the destiny of our mission. We are talking about a NATO mission, the Active fence, which since 2016 has been deployed a substantial unit of ours: we are talking about 130 people, 24 land vehicles and a missile battery, the SAMP/T (last generation land-air missile system), put there at the request of Turkey to NATO to defend it from the air threat of Syria. We left our soldiers there while Turkey was shooting at Syria. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] So let us welcome the fact that, without answering our questions, you have decided to withdraw the mission: are we not using a parliamentary passage here too? When we authorize missions, will you tell us first if they are not renewed? That mission, in fact, did not have a deadline, except that of 31 December, and was subject, if necessary, to renewal, but it seems to me that this is now being done without calling on Parliament. This happens in many cases, like when you decided to join the European 12 (in fact, you had decided before not to sit at the table, and then you changed your mind): we did not know it either in the first case, or in the second, if not to things done, that then we were communicated; but we move on, however. At a time when we are putting an end to this mission, Minister, then we must block, within the technical committees, all the requests for funding of NATO infrastructure in Turkey, which are so many and costly, because of the two and one thing it brings with it. On this too, the government, at the time of the crisis, was lukewarm and I would also say a little'soft' and excuse the expression, with statements that were not assertive. France and Germany, to which I do not look enthusiastically for other reasons, have been assertive, while Italy was a whole "we will see" and "we will do" will ask for the moratorium in the sale of arms" or "the blocking of the sale of arms to Turkey." At some point, finally, an announcement and a statement: a measure to suspend the export of arms, which we have not seen followed. What did you do? You have come under the European umbrella, waiting for it to stop raining, rather than making a decision that would give pride and dignity to our country at European and international level. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Now it has stopped raining and come here to make "compilative" relationships - forgive the expression - that do not enlighten us on our country's foreign policy on this aspect. Even today, Minister, it has not been assertive: it has not said clear and unequivocal words against the Islamist drift and the imperialism of Sultan Erdogan or against the violation of human rights, Syrian borders and the sovereignty of a people. I didn't hear any shrewd words about the offensive against the Syrian Kurds, who defended us, fighting, fighting and even dying against ISIS, Daesh. Similarly, I have not heard a word - as my colleague Mr Beginini recalled - about the barbaric killing of pro-Turkish Islamic fundamentalists by Hevrin Kalhaf, known to the world as the champion of women and Kurdish human rights activist. It was the horrendous execution of a symbolic woman, engaged for her people with her party, the Syrian Future, always at the forefront of fundamental rights and - I want to emphasize this - the peaceful coexistence between Christian Kurds and Arabs. They killed with her a method, that of cohabitation. I have not heard a word for you or for those thousands of Kurdish women who have been fighting - and have died - against ISIS, Daesh, and who have continued to fight even today, crying out to the international community, to Europe and to Italy, so also to you. I am thinking of the statements and commitment of commanders such as Nessrin Abdalla or Jomma Issa, names which may not be known to this House, but which are so in the history of the resilience of the Kurdish people and which belong to commanders who have fought and have asked for help. The answer was the silence of Europe, which met and decided on a few things, but we were little followed, little heart and little position. Minister, we have also tabled a timely motion for a resolution which will explain Mr Urso after me. However, I would like to conclude by saying that there are so many unanswered questions and there is no point in deducing them in your report. Is the European Union prepared to review the partnership agreements with Turkey in serious terms? Is it permissible for a NATO Member State to use refugees as a demographic bomb to threaten other partners in an invasion by those same countries for which Europe has paid to keep them within its borders? And you and I, dumb, were threatened and did not react to this threat? Did we say a word about a Sultan who favours Islamic terrorism, penetration into Europe and terrorism in Libya? And again, can we say once and for all, clearly and definitively, no to Turkey's entry into Europe? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is a suspended issue, a sword of Damocles: do we or do we not mean that Turkey stands to be the political power of Islam? When we find the terrorists at home it will be at this origin that we will have to return: to a story of lack of answers; to this silence, to the "we will see" and to the "we will make" under the European umbrella. I would have expected much more in the face of a humanitarian tragedy like that and it is not a matter of party membership: it is a matter of having a concept of sovereignty and respect for fundamental human rights. In conclusion, Mr President, the terrorist threat goes beyond Daesh's state dissolution, because Islam is an ideology that permeates, takes over and infiltrates Europe and the West, then declares war on us, the West and Christendom. With regard to all this - I repeat - your report is insufficient and exhaustive. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u21	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we have dealt with the sensitive issue of the situation in Syria in this House. We were the first to do so, as a Democratic Party, concerned about President Erdogan's announcement to intervene in Syrian territory. I think that we should rightly move on two sides, the first of which is the relationship with public opinion. I am proud to belong to a party like the Democratic Party, which has promoted hundreds of garrisons and initiatives to say no to Turkey's intervention, yes to the defence of the civilian population, no to human rights violations, but it is clearly not enough. Then there is the institutional action, that is what we can do as an Italian Government in international fora. You have addressed some of the issues, Minister, and I acknowledge that you have touched on the main issues of our work. I shall try to divide my speech into two parts. One concerns what has been done and the challenges we face in relation to a situation in which Italy, historically, has not been the protagonist. It was not only in demerit of its own, but because, within the international organizations to which it belongs, there were objectively certain limits in foreign policy action on the Syrian side. It is okay then to work together with other partners to demand that the ceasefire be respected, that work be done to stabilise the area and that non-belligerence be respected. I believe that this must be tried to build in international fora, starting with the United Nations, which are in crisis on the side of building peace-keeping projects. I think this is an initiative that Italy can take, because of the multilateral dimension it has made a characteristic of its foreign policy: it is a reflection on how, following the model of other realities, a force of interposition can enter the border between Turkey and Syria in a stable way. I am aware of the complexity of the Turkish-Syrian theatre, where actors like Russia and Iran are confronted, with which it is not easy to find agreements and with which, as has been mentioned before, the Astana process has counted more than our meetings within NATO. An innovative initiative from this point of view, however, I think is important, because that area must be stabilized for the tensions that exist and since it has never fully recognized the borders: since they were drawn, after 1918, with the agreements Sykes-Picot, in fact the tensions between the different ethnic and religious groups move regardless of the material and formal boundaries. We must take note of this, so we must take into account an international community response to that challenge. The same applies to respect for security zones, where we must ensure humanitarian emergency corridors: our non-governmental organisations also operate in those territories, which carry out extraordinary work. The third point has to do with the security of Europe and our country as well. Minister, I would like to address you: a reflection must be made on the control side, not only of the prisoners, but also of the family members who are in Ain Issa and Al Hol. Senator Romani reminded us of this and Senator Bonino also took up the matter. The point, which we have not included in our motion for a resolution, of foreign fighters, particularly Europeans, is something that needs to be addressed. I think it must be dealt with within NATO and we cannot do so only emotionally. I realise that the issue of bringing these fighters into European prisons or prisons can somehow impact public opinion, but let us look at it from the point of view of security control and the fight against Islamic terrorism. Being able to have prisoners from whom to draw decisive information for the fight not only at ISIS, but at the international of Islamic terror, I think it is a reflection that must be done, in the appropriate fora. Finally, I would like to share a reflection on how Italy intends to address its role in the major international organisations dealing with this crisis, namely NATO and the European Union. Within the European Union, we need to consider two things. He rightly said that eleven countries have decided to block the sale of weapons, including us, and that two are even thinking of blocking the previous contracts (you will evaluate, imagine with UAMA, Unit for the authorization of weapons materials, which contracts can be blocked and which not, so as not to meet legal initiatives). In this story, however, it is already clear that Europe is going to be scattered in order. There could be no other way, no less bad that we have pushed many countries to go in that direction. According to a reflection that we have initiated with President Conte, which I also submit to you and which I share with colleagues, perhaps it is time to abandon the idea and overcome the taboo of Europe at 28 on foreign policy issues. We must overcome the idea of unanimity: we are working for a tough base and a truly convinced Europe that some foreign policy choices must be taken unanimously, because, if we do not speak with one voice in those theatres, we will never count and the situation will also be the one told by Senator Romani in the future. We want to count more on the Middle East and on the stabilisation of the Mediterranean. Only as Italy we cannot make it, but we can do it if the European Union counts. In trade policy we have torn out important agreements because it is a Community one: in the same way, if foreign policy - at least between countries that believe in it - would become one, we could succeed. I say this because this applies to one of the changes that this Government has made, namely the attempt to overcome Dublin and - from Valletta onwards - to open up a reasoning on the central Mediterranean. This is the other great theme. We can address the future of managing migratory flows if we move our attention towards the South and the Central Mediterranean. We did so within NATO, when we said that there was not only the East Front and the threat of Russia in competition with Europe and the United States, but that there was also a South front, and the themes of the Mediterranean, stability, the fight against Islamic terrorism, the embargo on arms and oil and the management of migratory flows. We've shifted our attention, strengthened the South Command. I think that, in a similar way, attention should be shifted to the South front within the strategies and policies of the European Union: it applies to money and development cooperation, to the management of migration flows, to the overcoming of Dublin and to an agreement with varying geometries on the issue of the compulsory redistribution of refugees. In 2019 we removed two cheques, from two and a billion, respectively, for the management of refugee camps in Turkey. We have allocated only 500 million at European level, Minister, to strengthen the trust fund for Africa. The epochal challenge to address the management of migratory flows and to think of a policy of cooperation and development for Africa also passes from this. Within the European Union and NATO, a new strategy to shift attention to the Mediterranean is crucial for the future of our foreign policy. When we talk about Turkey, we also talk about this: otherwise, we simply warm our consciences and accompany a movement of indignation that rises from European public opinion, perfect, but we risk that it is only a way to absolve our conscience. Those who sit here cannot only respond to the need to appease the emotions of our public opinions, but they have a duty to take decisions that allow Italian and European foreign policy to be the protagonist of fundamental theatres for us, that is those of the Mediterranean and the Middle East. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your timely and assertive report. The States which accede to this Treaty reaffirm their faith in the purposes and principles of the United Nations Statute and their desire to live in peace with all peoples and governments. The Parties undertake, as set out in the United Nations Statute, to resolve by peaceful means any international dispute in which they may be involved, so that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain, in their international relations, from resorting to the threat or use of force, which is absolutely incompatible with the purposes of the United Nations. Those I have mentioned, gentlemen, are the preamble and Article 1 of the North Atlantic Treaty which is at the base of NATO, an alliance of which Turkey is also part, which with its conduct shows the greatest contempt for the foundations of international law. It is very serious that one nation invades another, violating its territorial sovereignty and attacking the civilian population in order to carry out a declared ethnic cleansing operation, with hundreds of Kurdish civilians killed and hundreds of thousands forced to flee in order to avoid certain deaths and heavy accusations - which must be absolutely verified - of war crimes and the use of prohibited weapons. It is all the more serious if he is a member of NATO to do this. Where are NATO and the Secretary-General, who asks us for 2% of our GDP to arm it? It is a defensive - not aggressive - alliance based on respect for the fundamental principles of civil coexistence. It is absolutely obscene that this barbaric aggression affects a heroic people like the Kurdish people, without whom we could never militarily defeat the Islamic State (these are the words that Senator Rauti wanted to hear). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the applauses of all my colleagues in this House, Senator Candiani. Towards that Islamic State, instead, Erdogan's Turkey has held an ambiguous attitude for years to say the least. Not only that: in the Syrian Rojava, the Kurds opposed the nightmare of the terrorist and medieval regime of the Daesh a model of democratic self-government, egalitarian and with full gender equality, which represents a beacon of hope for the whole Middle East. In addition to calling for a mission of blue helmets, which we hope will be carried out as soon as possible - also because it was last night's news that clashes began between the Turkish army and Assad's forces at the border - to protect the Kurdish people and disarm the bloody black jihadist militias supported by Turkey, the least that could be done was to suspend all military support for the aggressive Turkish regime of Erdogan. This is what you did first and - to reply to the complaints about current contracts - cannot be done, given the flaws of Law No 185 of 1990, which do not allow automation of this kind, but rather investigations, such as those you have rightly initiated. We will remove these limits with a special Ferrara-signed law. This stop to military supplies, among other things, had to be done on other occasions: in 2016, when the UN condemned the purges and mass arrests ordered by Erdogan after the coup attempt; in 2017, when the UN condemned the serious human rights violations committed by the Turkish military against the Kurds in eastern Turkey; or in early 2018, when Erdogan bombed the Kurdish civilians of Afrin in Syria. The previous governments did not have the political courage to do so: the current one did so, as it had done by stopping the supplies to Saudi Arabia for the war in Yemen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We hope that this suspension, in addition to blocking already authorised orders, will remain in force until the Turkish forces can demonstrate the existence of effective mechanisms to ensure that arms, ammunition and other military equipment and technology are not used to commit serious violations of international law, human rights or international humanitarian law. Finally, as our 5 Star spokesmen rightly proposed in Brussels, we must finally close the far-fetched procedure for Turkey's entry into the Union. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is enough, because there is no longer any pre-conditions, and that is not the case today. We must also block all funding from Erdogan, who continues to blackmail us with the fear of the millions of Syrian refugees detained in Turkey in exchange for mountains of money, except then forcefully deport them to Syria. Amnesty International has in fact denounced that in the months preceding its military raid in the North-East of Syria, Erdogan has forcibly repatriated Syrian refugees, who have been beaten or threatened by the Turkish police to sign documents in which they testified that they had asked to return voluntarily to Syria and that they were thus forced to return to a war zone where they risked their lives. I wonder how it is possible to stop and report Erdoğan. The UN is an organization that is compactly and firmly denounced; here, the problem is the firm way. There is a Russia that is handling a situation that should handle the United Nations and the blue helmets. All we hear is words while people die. Where's NATO? Where's Trump? Where's the UN? Where are the blue helmets? When the institutions in charge will indict Erdoğan as a war criminal or genocidal, why is that? Unfortunately, I fear that Erdoğan's diplomacy is of little interest. So thank you, Minister, and I urge you to move forward decisively with the UN and NATO. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u25	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Salvini and other Senators, No 2, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 3, Senators Ferrara, Garavini, Alfieri, Casini and De Petris, No 4, Senator De Falco and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Bernini and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to reply briefly to some of the points made here today. I would like to thank all the groups and all the political forces involved, because they have certainly enriched the debate and given the government the opportunity to clarify certain aspects. The first issue, which I believe has been highlighted unanimously by everyone, is that this aggression of Turkey, destabilizing the area, puts at risk the security not only of Italy but of the whole of Europe, because the foreign fighters and fighters who are on that territory and who have been fought by the Kurdish people (who have all our gratitude and gratitude) at this moment are at risk of returning to freedom or, in some cases, already are. They were in some prisons run by the Kurdish people. Therefore, we can certainly reiterate, once again, that this concern of the Italian Parliament (because it is the same concern that has also been expressed by Members) shows that probably, indeed almost certainly, any kind of conflict tends to proliferate terrorism and not to defeat it. This is therefore not the solution to combat terrorism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Following the chronological order of the interventions, the first theme, which was moved by Senator De Falco and which then returned in most of the interventions, concerns a clarification on the blockade of arms exports and the export authorizations for armaments. There is one issue: for me, the Turkish-Syrian conflict is a conflict and - I want to clarify this here - it is an unjustified aggression, which has no foundation and which tends to carry out an unacceptable demographic engineering work (I want to say clearly). But, from the formal point of view of Law No 185 of 1990, to which we refer for the blocking of arms exports (both new authorisations and current ones) we need international organizations to declare the conflict, that is, formally telling us that Turkey and Syria are in conflict. [[Comments of Senator De Falco]] The issue that concerns our investigation, which is not a formal investigation, is to find all the legislative bases so that the blockade is effective and not a blockade that then unblocks with appeals that are based on the fact that the UN Security Council has met, but has not reached any conclusion on the conflict - which I consider to be such - Turkish-Syrian. This is very important and that is why we are not stalling: we are deepening the issue in detail to issue the second measure. The first was in fact issued: I gave the directives for the blocking of any new authorization. On the current ones, as I said to the House, we started the investigation, which is being finalized and we have a recent precedent, made by the previous government but with this Parliament, which is that of Yemen. This precedent allowed us to block part of the export of arms to countries, such as Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates, which used a certain type of device in Yemen. We must therefore simply find the best technical way to make the measure stand. I would remind you that this is an administrative measure and therefore lends itself to all possible appeals from this point of view. Someone said earlier that we went to put under the European umbrella. We may have given this impression, but I would like to point out that we have promoted the initiative in Europe precisely to prevent any country from assuming speculative attitudes about the blockade of our armaments. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators De Bonis and Martelli]] It must be clear that if we are in the European Union, we are all blocking arms and we are not playing any kind of game at all. I would like to say one more thing about this: we have not said that the European Union must block arms for all. We went to the Foreign Affairs Council and we asked everyone there if they would follow conclusions which they committed themselves to. So it is not that we are waiting for a European measure. Does everyone commit themselves to blocking new arms export authorisations? There have been conclusions to which all have adhered and to those conclusions correspond the data that I have set out in the initial information, in which the countries that are following the arms blockade are indicated. We were among the first countries, but before moving alone we asked that everyone do it, and not for a matter of sale or anything else, but for a simple reason. We cannot think that the states of the European Union, at a time when giants such as Russia, the United States and Iran are having important influences on the Turkish-Syrian issue, are moving autonomously. It was a first big step at the initiative of Italy and I think it is very important to claim it because it shows that if we want to influence and bring our heritage of capacity and also of sympathy in those areas of the world, we must also offer it to the European Union, stimulating it to move as such. Then sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't. Senator Romani spoke of Soči's agreements; they probably give continuity to a series of agreements reached in the past, in some way re-enacted, perhaps even re-animated, which are affecting that area. Then we totally share the concern about fighters and foreign fighters. That area and what is happening on the border with Syria testify that there are geopolitical balances that are changing. We must look at what is happening, trying to engage the major institutions involved; certainly the United Nations, although we know well that that Security Council which met a few hours or a few days after what happened, took place behind closed doors and did not reach particularly effective conclusions. Turkey is a member of NATO, the other great entity that must act, and this does not help. Certainly, the agreements on the truce and stand-by that have taken place with both the United States and Russia testify that in that area we must look at what is happening not only regionalising it, but evaluating its balance. Once again, I believe that Italy in these cases must be aware of its capacity: it has a great diplomatic capacity and it has been a shame not to be protagonists in the process. At the same time, it can play a great role if it manages to aggregate the European Union. In some cases, in fact, we could sin of exaltation and pride if we wanted to intervene alone. Certainly Italy, in the process of the so-called Constitutional Committee, must play a particularly active role. I met Pedersen at the UN General Assembly, which, in the context of the process of the Constitutional Committee in Geneva, will meet Turkey, Russia and Iran, representing the three players who, as Senator Romani said, play a key role in what is happening. I believe that what is happening internationally surely witnesses the fact that you are "reingaging" Assad. Someone will say today that he said so, because at the onset of the Syrian conflict the debate on whether or not to speak with Assad was in the public domain. However, I believe that these times are ripe to take a very small step forward, within the Constitutional Committee, which, as I said, represents our beacon in solving the problem of the instability of Syria. As Senator Romani said, the actions of the Constitutional Committee - which meets today, due to a coincidence with this information - will have to pave the way for the reconstruction process of that country, so not only institutional, but also from a concrete point of view. In this regard, I believe that, once again, Italy can do much more than European partners who have the same diplomatic presence at embassy level in that country and who have moved much more effectively. With regard to the issue of sanctions, let us first look at what is happening in the constitutional process; at this time, in fact, in the Constitutional Committee we must see the behaviour of all parties in that context. Taking action and talking about falling behind the sanctions could stop the positive attention that is moving around the Committee and that Pedersen is handling very well. The theme of the apprehension with respect to the condition of foreign fighters and fighters in that territory was also moved by President Casini. As I said, I believe that this testifies, once again, to the fact that terrorism is not defeated by armed actions, indeed: in these cases we risk freeing terrorists and very often foreign fighters have European nationalities, so we would have additional risks for the security of the countries of the European Union. The concept is much bigger, as you said, and it concerns the stabilisation of the Mediterranean; in my opinion, we must be aware that the stabilisation of the Mediterranean does not go only through Libya. In fact, we have a number of open issues: I am thinking of Egypt and the case of Regeni, I am thinking of the relationships that we have not cultivated much with an important player like Morocco (and in fact, Friday I will go to that State) that I think requires a closer approach with Italy and with the Italian institutions. We also look with apprehension at what is happening in Tunisia and Algeria. Tunisia still sees a political process in place and on the dramatic condition of Algeria you have already spoken, Senator Casini. It is no coincidence that the largest number of migrants that we are now seeing landing on our coasts starts right from the Tunisian coasts. We must therefore be very careful to maintain a good relationship with these countries. For example, it was a missed opportunity that Tunisia and Algeria, who are neighbouring countries and who needed to be protagonists, were not invited to the Berlin Conference on Libya. Those two countries, in fact, are very important not only for the defense of borders - they fight terrorism on their borders - but also because they understand much more our reasons as Italy than many other partners we have. The stabilisation of the Mediterranean therefore becomes fundamental. I do not agree with those who said that, as Italy, we have only observed: as Italy we have taken important steps to try to bring the European Union back to unity. However, I can assure you that it was difficult in the Foreign Affairs Council to get the European Union to say that it condemns Turkey's action and to agree with all the European countries (this is an issue I would like to come back to later). The Italian initiative has been - and will be - in the context of processes in which we could certainly be more protagonists, but not everything is lost: the theme of the Constitutional Committee and the theme of the European Union's actions against Turkey will be very much interested in Italy's actions in international fora in the coming days and weeks. The same meeting of the anti-Daesh coalition in Washington on November 14 testifies to the fact that the United States is, in any case, engaged in trying to find a solution. The United States has been accused at this time of disengaging, washing their hands and leaving because they need to think about other issues. Speaking with the Secretary of State Pompey and the Vice President of the United States, we have found that there is a willingness to be hired on this issue, but at the same time there is the political will to withdraw the soldiers from the border between Turkey and Syria. I say all this because, in my opinion, in the next few days we must have clear our objectives, which are definitely de-escalation, the protection of the Kurdish people (which has contributed more than all others to the defeat of the Daesh) and the blocking of an action that, as I have defined, risks being a great operation of demographic engineering, which, however, is achieved without even moving the troops anymore. In fact, when we talk about a truce, we must understand what happens during the same and what is being said to the Kurdish people during the same. It is very important to ensure that these five-day or six-day stops have been and are opportunities to ensure peace and not to achieve with the stop what could be achieved with weapons, otherwise we are not defending the Kurdish people and, above all, we are not stabilizing that area because then there will be future claims that will feed tensions. With this I answer both Senator Beginini and Senator Bonino. I would also like to say to Senator Candiani that I believe that the process of enlargement of the European Union to Turkey today has essentially been bogged down, but not because of what happened between Turkey and Syria and therefore that Turkey has done in recent weeks, but simply because of Erdoğan's record in Turkey, which is not recent. It is clear that the process at this time is essentially in a deadlock. Without any controversy, I would also add that, with regard to strong actions against Turkey, at the last European Foreign Affairs Council, I understood that we would not find this great consensus on the part of the Eastern European countries which call themselves sovereignists. I have not seen this great enthusiasm for going firmly against Turkey to the point of blocking any kind of enlargement process or condemning Turkey's action. It was not easy and, even in that case, Italy's action was fundamental. I understand that every sovereign country and government thinks about its interests, only that at this moment the interests of sovereign governments do not coincide with the interests of the Italian Government and many other European states. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I can assure you, Senator Candiani, that, from this point of view, at the Italian-Slovenian border, we are continuing the patrol and, from a meeting we had with the Minister of the Interior at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a few days ago, we intend to strengthen it further, because this border is very important for the risk of migratory flows. I remember that Turkey is blocking these flows, but at the same time - as I said quite clearly - Europe cannot be threatened by the same; we cannot accept the threat at all. We do not accept it, I hope no one will accept it, that none of the European countries will accept this blackmail. The last European Foreign Affairs Council does not make me feel comfortable from this point of view. Senator Rauti said, about the withdrawal of both our soldiers and our anti-missile batteries, that Parliament should be informed, because, as a mission allows, it must also be informed of its withdrawal. On 24 October Parliament was informed by the Undersecretary Angelo Tofalo to the House. So both in and out of this kind of mission we have involved and informed Parliament, according to the law. Our soldiers and our missile batteries have been the subject of our intention to withdraw, so we will withdraw our soldiers, we will no longer participate in that mission and we will withdraw our missile batteries. Obviously, as you know better than I do, the withdrawal of both our soldiers and weapons requires a chronoprogram and this will definitely end by the end of the year, but in some cases it could also be completed sooner. I must add, honestly, that the withdrawal of the missile batteries had already been initiated under the previous Government. I would also like to say to Senator Alfieri that on the subject of arms exports we must not wait for other European countries to take initiatives, on the understanding that two European countries have internal regulations that have allowed them to do without any doubt both the blocking of the future and the blocking of the existing ones. One thing that I think is desirable - there is parliamentary autonomy, but I know that there is a debate going on - is to strengthen Law 185 of 1990. This does not want to be a way of saying that we have to wait for that strengthening of the legislation (I am waiting for some detail and then we hope to be able to proceed) but on that front we have some European legislation much later that allows Member States of the European Union to be able to intervene more quickly on these decisions. As far as international cooperation is concerned, Italy has made two interventions in the field of health emergencies, and one of them has already planned a flight of ten tonnes of medical equipment in Syria. These are cooperation interventions that we do with the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation, but they represent the spirit of Italy in these scenarios, which has always been of assistance to the people. Finally, as far as the UN Blue Helmet Mission is concerned, I imagine that everyone here is looking forward to an important UN intervention. Obviously, this is yet another episode that opens up to the debate on the reform of the United Nations and its Security Council, of which Italy is a subject that has always been particularly active in promoting a reform that allows for greater participation of States in the same Council and therefore a possibility to affect decisions that are sometimes not taken because some countries stall the actions of the United Nations. There are, therefore, some things that are desirable and others that can be achieved in practice: we work on both fronts. As regards the expression of opinions on motions for resolutions, we generally express a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution by a majority and an opinion against the others. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u27	Minister, just to be clear, the Government's opinion against the motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2 and 5, whereas it is in favour of motion for a resolution No 3. I would ask you what your opinion is on motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), first signed by Senator De Falco.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u28	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u32	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Di Maio for having the opportunity to stop for a few more minutes. He points out no, but we will make sure that he receives our statements. In any case, thanks remain intact for these communications which defined an update compared to those that had the opportunity to render to the House of Deputies. 12:02 p.m. (Follows LAFORGIA). If I may, Minister, briefly go out of topic, this look on the world, this page about what happens around us (a few or many kilometers from us) is something that I think we will have to deepen very soon. I hope, for example, that the Conference of Leaders will be able to formally request a debate because this House has not yet been informed about the Chilean affair, with regard to which there is a need for a rapid, immediate pronunciation, of this Parliament for the connection, not only emotional but cultural and human, which we have towards that country and towards its population, which is currently experiencing a very dangerous slip in terms of the restriction of freedoms. As far as today's issue is concerned, I believe that our first thought must be directed to the Kurdish population, not only because of the role it has played (remembered substantially in all the previous interventions) of embankment, containment, if not even of real contrast to the terrorist threat of the so-called Islamic State, which precisely in that area had an important setback precisely because of the strength and courage of the fighters and - I would like to remind you - the fighters of that people who defended Kobanê and took Raqqa away from the threat and possibility that even the capital of the Islamic State would settle there. Therefore, my message is a manifestation of solidarity, of closeness, of heartfelt thanks. In fact, I would like to remind you (by saying a great banality) that we are not just discussing geopolitical balances here, but about something that has to do deeply with our civilization and our values, with the very meaning of the idea of progress within communities and peoples, because the presence of the Kurdish people in that particular area has proved to be a very important factor from this point of view and therefore to protect, defend and defend it, means to defend our values and our civilization first and foremost. I say this because the panorama is uncomfortable, not only because we have been and are faced with a unilateral attack (of this we are talking) on the part of Turkey (we arrive in a moment), but also because of the discomfort followed by the set of arguments that accompanied some outings of the protagonists who moved on the international world scene. I am thinking, for example, of that sentence, of the horrible joke of the President of the United States, our ally, who accompanies the exit of the American troops by saying that the Kurds were not at the side of the United States and the Americans in contrast to Nazi-Fascism. We are talking about this and the fact that, in the face of a unilateral attack by Turkey (not an act of defence, but a unilateral attack), the Secretary-General of NATO - I regret to say this, because we are talking about a Norwegian Labourman - is recommended with Turkey that the defence action be conducted in moderation. In my opinion, we are faced with elements which must be somewhat embarrassed, because this is not a defence, but an attack and even less so can be conducted in moderation. We have to tell ourselves these things, because we need to be aware of the framework in which we are moving about in relation to formal pronunciations - and the European Parliament was right to vote on the non-legislative resolution condemning Turkey's action - and our formal pronunciations in particular. In this respect, we must therefore be very specific about the role we can play in formulating our demands. The first request is on the truce of Soči, which must last and be real, so that it can enable the health and relief facilities of humanitarian workers to shelter the civilian populations. As for the second request, I do not know whether economic sanctions are the right weapon for weapons, because often their relapse has been negative, first of all against the civilian population. We certainly need what has also been mentioned here, that is, a force of interposition. We need an immediate stop to arms supplies, as we wrote in the resolution, and on this - I am sorry that the Minister has left, but the message will come in any case - I also register a serious commitment from the Minister. But I would like to give the Minister an unsolicited advice, even "toe-toe" if possible, in the face of a tragedy like the one we are discussing: the Minister has more courage. Have the Minister more courage, because we must stop future supplies, but also those in existence, and we must prevent our country from becoming a transit ground for other people's arms supplies. Otherwise we are in a contradiction. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]] Finally, I spoke about the role of Europe. There is a long debate to be had, and I do not know whether Turkey's isolation is also due to the fact that Europe has not fully believed in investing in the possibility of keeping Turkey more within its perimeter and its area of influence. I do not know how the responsibilities are distributed between Europe and Turkey itself with its self-isolation, but I know that when we say, as Europeans (so also as Italy), that we have to make sure that Erdoğan stops with the blackmail that leads us every time to the issue of refugees, we have to tell ourselves the truth, otherwise we are in a hypocritical debate. In that blackmail, which consists of the exchange of money and the containment of refugees, Europe has slipped in on its own, granting Erdoğan the role of policeman at the door of the East. Europe, rather than having a wider view of policies, including migration, in relation to the outbreaks of war and conflicts around the world, has sought a shortcut and today that shortcut risks paying it at a high price, not only in terms of resources. In this sense - and I conclude - the demand for authority must lead to acts which follow on from the issues we have been talking about, starting with the supply of arms. It must be a demand that goes right to the heart of Europe, for Europe to be aware of a role that is currently at risk of losing in the system of international relations, and therefore also on the ground, which perhaps should be the most dear to all, the promotion of peace and civil coexistence among peoples in the world. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u35	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the ceasefire that has been reached in Syria is a positive step forward, because it has succeeded in ending the hundreds of victims, dead and wounded among the Kurdish population; the bombings and the destruction of entire settlements have stopped; the causes that have led to a tragic exodus of more than 300,000 civilians forced to flee have been interrupted. Having said that, the war unleashed under the hypocritical name of "source of peace" by Erdoğan leaves a very heavy balance on the ground, not at all reassuring. First of all, for the material damage, for the human lives sacrificed, but also for the political effects, for the new geopolitical balances that are emerging, which are also very unhappy for Europe. The problem is that, in the agreement drawn up in Soči between Russia and Turkey, Europe is totally absent, and this despite being a very delicate area (not even 3,000 kilometers from Italy, as the crow flies). Europe, unfortunately, has not touched the ball. The people who came out of the agreements well are Erdoğan, who managed to get what he wanted, what he wanted for years, i.e. to remove the Kurdish militias from his border, to establish a security corridor to the north of Syria, with the aim of transferring there those 3,5 million Syrian refugees who currently live in Turkey, housed in tent cities and refugee camps. Here Erdoğan is likely to be the real winner of the whole situation: the winner on whom the good and bad weather depend immediately throughout the territorial area of security, over 120 kilometers long; an area in which we already have total control by the Turkish leader. Likewise, Russia comes victorious from the agreements: that Russia which has actually fueled the Syrian conflict for years and which now, after having supported the dictator Bashar al-Assad, risks profiling as the mediator, the resolver of the regional crisis that has civilized Syria for more than eight years. Another figure that comes out rehabilitated is the same Assad, who risks even looking like the one who pacifies his land, when instead he became the author of a civil fratricidal war. On the contrary, those who go out badly are first and foremost the Kurds, brutally attacked and driven out; those who have seen their dream of creating themselves as an independent force, as a force in an autonomous territory, and who now, in order to survive, are forced to ally themselves with their opponents of all time, namely Syria and Russia. The United States, after abandoning the former Kurdish allies to their destiny, has totally lost their credibility as an international military ally. NATO also comes out weakened by this conflict, because it has seen first of all question its own constitutional rules from its own Member State, Turkey, without being in a position to impose a ceasefire or to call Turkey to respect international agreements. But, above all, who - alas - gets out badly from this conflict and from the agreements drawn up is, precisely, Europe, because, in his inability to speak with a single voice in foreign policy, unfortunately, he has become somewhat responsible for the fact that the situation degenerated and Erdoğan achieved those successes to which he has aspired for years. Unfortunately, this victory - and the consequent defeat for Europe - risks costing Europe very dearly, which, compared to the continuing threats that Erdoğan puts in the field of opening refugee detention centres, risks softening its position in some respects. Unfortunately, compared to those threats of opening refugee detention centres, Erdogan today has Europe even more under check than previously. He's got a potential pressure lever in his hand and he doesn't scruple to use it. Not surprisingly, just in recent days, where individual member countries made their voices heard louder in protest to Erdogan's own attacks, he reiterated these threats. Now the question is: how do we put ourselves, as Europeans? How does Europe respect Erdoğan's attitude? Here, however, the answer cannot be either to call for Turkey to be expelled from NATO or to stop the accession process in the European Union. On the contrary, the answer is to regain Europe's protagonism, inter alia by using those instruments which Europe has already equipped itself, for example in the context of permanent structured cooperation of the CFSP, in the area of defence policy. Even this morning, at a hearing in joint committees, I had the opportunity to reiterate this to Mr Guerini. In the same way, we are pleased that the Government, even in the majority resolution that we are going to sign today, accepts our proposal, made as Italy Viva-P.S.I., to mobilize as Italy, at international level, even before the next summits of the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs are reconfirmed, precisely so that Europe can be in the field, under the mandate of the United Nations, for a multinational force of interposition in agreement with Russia and Turkey. This is so that there is a position that sees, always with the agreement of the United Nations, under the mandate of the UN, a possible presence of Europe also for a peacekeeping operation, which allows, on the one hand, to guarantee that cease-fire which, unfortunately, even the topicality of these hours lets leak, on the other hand, is not certain to commit itself to the side of the civilian population for the protection of the same and then for the restoration of an extremely important geopolitical stability in an area so delicate and so close to our country and to the whole of Europe and also to ensure the control of those camps of detention of foreign fighters that could, in fact, be a time bomb that could put at risk and in danger a whole series of countries at European level. That is why the European Union itself can play a role, it can regain its own protagonism, even in such a delicate area in which, unfortunately, Europe is now totally absent. Equally important is that no new funding should be given to Turkey, because the risk is that, compared to these threats, several countries which, perhaps, had proved to be rather harsh in the course of the conflict, will now give in and increase those resources that have been allocated to Erdoğan in recent years to take care of the various refugee camps and refugees held within Turkey itself. It is positive that the sending of weapons is blocked and that Italy has taken a position in this regard and it is appropriate that it applies also to those weapons whose dispatch has already been deliberated. Let us look, however, at the attempt or the concern or the intention to isolate Turkey, because, beyond an approach that sees Europe as a new protagonist, with a position that protects the interests of individual countries but also of Europe as such, it would be a mistake if we went to take steps leading to exclusion, exclusion and isolation of Turkey. It's too important, too delicate. Europe cannot stand by and look at Italy. We need peace, we need to restore balance and it is a good thing that we are going to vote on the majority resolution today, in which Italy Viva is clearly involved. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u38	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues in this House for this very important debate. The Italian Parliament, the Senate of the Republic today, will have to pronounce on the drama that the Syrian people and the Kurdish people are experiencing, a tragedy that is taking place in the immediate vicinity of the Italian borders, after the European Parliament and, last night, the Congress of the United States have already spoken. Honestly, I expected the same feeling, the same spirit, the same attitude in this House as in the European Parliament, which adopted a non-legal but fundamental resolution asking European governments for effective sanctions and embargoes against Turkey. I expected that in this Chamber of the Senate of the Italian Republic there would be the same spirit, the same sentiment, the same community of intent that there was a few hours ago in the Congress of the United States which approved, almost unanimously, a bipartisan motion that commits the President, and therefore the United States, to sanctions against Erdogan and Turkey, thus to drastic, firm and decisive measures. The Italian Parliament, which is part of the community of the peoples of Europe and of the community of the western peoples, attends this spectacle - I say this to my colleagues - in which the Government, made up of 21 ministers and 42 Undersecretaries, that is 63 people, is at this moment resoundingly absent, except for the legal presence of the Undersecretary at work. The Undersecretary for Labour! There is no Minister for Foreign Affairs, there are no Undersecretaries for Foreign Affairs, there is no Minister for Defence, there is no Minister for the Interior, there is no Italian Government! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] The Undersecretary for Labour is present, colleagues of the 5 Stars. Is the policy towards Turkey and refugees part of the income of citizenship? I am saddened by what is happening, even by the resolutions you have tabled. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] It's from the FdI Group. Shut up! [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u39	Let's all be quiet. Let's let the senator speak, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u40	Mr Zaffini (FdI). President, they're provoking! Mr Urso (FdI). Dear Senators, in the majority resolution I find nothing of what the Democratic Party said in recent days, I find nothing of what Zingaretti and the other representatives declared until 17 October, I find nothing of what the Government had committed itself to in these Aules, first Minister Di Maio, on 15 October and then the President of the Council, on 16 October. I can't find any of this. I find a Pilatescan resolution in which, in the face of the Kurdish blood, you wash your hands. Until October 17 the attitude of the political forces of the majority and the government was different, and why do I say until October 17? In the previous days, Minister Di Maio told the House that Italy would be in the front row and that it had already taken action not only with regard to the weapons that might have been sent in the next contracts, but immediately. And the President-in-Office of the Council, on 16 October, said in this House that Italy was immediately oriented, even unilaterally (one-sidedly means: on its own) towards the moratorium on the sale of arms to Turkey, and that he had firmly wanted it to be the subject of a European debate since last week. He was therefore committed to putting in place unilateral measures as well. Where are they? And why do I say until October 17? Because after October 17 there is a phone call between the President of the Council and Erdogan; a hot phone call, the agencies tell us. From that phone call, it changes the attitude not of Turkey, but of Italy. Erdogan continues in the massacre of the Syrian and Kurdish people and Italy withdraws, now after now, from any action. That hot phone call, apparently, convinced Count to back off. He, not the Italian people; I hope he has convinced him, not the Italian Parliament. That is why we will certainly not vote for this motion for a majority resolution: because we do not want to be complicit in this pilatestic attitude of Italy. We shall vote on all the other motions for resolutions, because all of them, no one excluded, including that of the Mixed-LEU Group, although to a lesser extent than ours, are asking the Italian Government to do something and not just stand by and watch. In fact, we think that it is necessary for Italy, rather than for any other nation, to be (as the parliamentarians of the majority said until 17 October) in the front row, even unilaterally, to intervene so that there are, as the European Parliament says and as the American Congress voted tonight, selective sanctions against those responsible for what is likely to be a genocide, that is, Turkey. That is why we are calling for Italy and the European Union to stand up as the American Congress and as the European Parliament, in an affirmative posture towards Turkey, canceling funding. Dear Di Maio - I am addressing Di Maio who is absent, but something needs to be explained to him - the fact that negotiations for Turkey's accession to the European Union are suspended also means that the EU's funding for Turkey is continuing in the meantime in relation to the accession process. If, on the other hand, those negotiations and that process are cancelled, the substantial funding that Turkey uses, on the basis of those negotiations that have been suspended but not bogged down, is also suspended in order to suppress the Kurdish people. I say this because our motion on this is clear and clear and responds to what Senator Morra said to this House, because the paradoxical thing is that one thing is said in the squares by Zingaretti and Di Maio, one thing was said in this Chamber by Count on 16 October and Di Maio on 15 October in the Chamber of Deputies, one thing is what Senator Morra said here a moment ago demanding the arms embargo, sanctions, suspension of Turkey's accession process and another thing that will vote for Senator Morra and the Senators of the 5 Star Movement. I ask you to be consistent with your words and the ideals you profess, not to flaunt words and ideals and then to act, in concrete acts, as you will behave where the majority's motion for a resolution in Italy passes and therefore the position of the Italian Government, which is exactly contrary to the one voted by the European Parliament and exactly contrary to the one voted by the American Congress. I believe that the Italian people, the peoples of Europe and the American people must be united, convinced that it is necessary to stop dictator Erdoğan and Turkey before this also turns against Europe. We must be aware of this by Italians, Europeans and Westerners. I hope that the Senate of the Republic and each Senator will vote according to their own conscience and not according to what has been presented in this House by a majority that has fallen behind on every front and is obviously supine to Erdoğan's interests. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u43	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to say at once that the Senators of the Democratic Party welcome the position of the Italian Government on Turkey's aggression in the North-East of Syria and thank Minister Di Maio very much for the rich presentation of the facts with which he informed us today and even more for his politically more interesting reply. If we needed further confirmation of Pope Francis' denunciation of the new world war in pieces that is bleeding the planet, it is precisely the war in Syria that gives it to us. The last act of this vast war, that is, the invasion of Syria by President Erdoğan, was made possible by Trump's decision to withdraw his troops from northern Syria, thus leaving free field for the Turkish army and its criminal militias; it is difficult to think that the withdrawal and subsequent invasion were not in any way agreed. That is the truth, because, without the substantial US pass, Turkey would certainly not have moved. The consequences of Turkey's offensive in Syria are known: massacres of Kurdish civilians and military, destruction of dozens of villages, absolute insecurity of roads, impossibility of communication in the North-East of Syria and, above all, the prospect of partitioning that territory between Turkey and Syria, with the direction of Russia. Today, after hearing Minister Di Maio, we are here to try to interpret politically such serious facts, to understand their international implications, to frame them in the possible future scenarios and, finally, to express an opinion on the position of the Italian Government. I have already said that I approve our Government's position, and this positive opinion will shortly be confirmed by the vote of the PD senators in favour of the majority motion for a resolution. I now want to try to broaden the horizon and try to take into account the geopolitical sense of what is happening in Syria, as a result of the Syrian people's uprising against the harshness of the Assad regime. World literature used to call "great play" the interweaving of wars, revolts, coups d'état, economic challenges of power, espionage and bloody attacks that determined the ruptures and recompositions of the balance in the quadrant of lands, extraordinary for history, culture and secular traditions, which from Syria and Lebanon go to Pakistan and India, to Iran and Saudi Arabia, to Iraq and Jordan, up to the territory of what is now the State of Israel. Since the beginning of this great game, that is from the nineteenth century to today, two centuries have passed and in the world the risks for peace have multiplied. We all know how much, what and how dangerous the tensions are in that quadrant of the world. But the risks are visible to the naked eye throughout the planet, not only by observing the dynamics of what we call reductively commercial wars, but by thinking of real wars and military risks. North Korea and Ukraine are the two macroscopic cases, but the truth is that today the world war in pieces, as Pope Francis calls it, sees around fifty local wars and outbreaks of war in the world, while the nations that possess the atomic bomb are now about ten and not all give sufficient guarantees. Well, in spite of the risk of wars having planetary dimensions, the region of the planet where the greatest chances are that the military and economic balances will deteriorate until direct clashes between the great powers is precisely the territory of the great game, which - I repeat - today has an epicenter precisely in Syria. Syria and the vast region that surrounds it are too close to Europe and Italy, too close and have too many common interests with us so as not to arouse our concern and to well question us about everything that had to be done or not done, asking us first of all whether we are one of the actors or just the spectators of the international events of that area. The first question we have to ask ourselves concerns the Kurdish people. Not only Europe, but the whole world must remember that no peace can be lasting when it is based on the betrayal and humiliation of an entire people. In this case, on the humiliation and betrayal of the Kurdish people. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Garavini]] It is indeed the entire Kurdish people who think and know that they have been betrayed. Trump and the West have urged and enjoyed the decisive help of the valiant Kurdish soldiers in the fight against ISIS. Many of them died for the security of the West, but when Erdogan wanted to invade the North-East of Syria with the aim of destroying the Kurdish political project in Rojava, Trump ordered his men to leave and let Turkey, careless of the pact with the Kurds and the large number of European jihadists so far guarded in Kurdish prisons and now close to liberation and then spread to the West and probably, given their origins, in Europe. Incurred of the emergence, which I would call brazen, of Russian interests in the Mediterranean. Italy and Europe must feel their responsibility and not abandon the Kurds. I believe that today this must be the first commitment that Italy and Europe must make: to support the Kurdish cause in all fora and, with all the diplomatic means at their disposal, to demand absolute respect for the human rights of a people for whom today it may not be exaggerated to fear genuine ethnic cleansing. Let us be careful, because this is not only a moral imperative, but a political duty and in our interest. The second question that we must ask ourselves concerns the almost total lack of political weight in Europe and, therefore, in Italy as well, in solving the great international crisis we are debating. The right question was asked today by Senator Romani: what role does Italy want to play? Senator Romani asked, but also Senator Bonino and Senators Casini and Alfieri asked. This is not the place to take up again the fundamental and central issue of Europe's lack of political unity, of the serious damage that comes to us from nationalism, from the continuous distinction, from the constant priority given to the interests of everyone on the interests of everyone. Today, however, a word appeared in our vocabulary that after 1945 we thought we would no longer use: the word war. Perhaps the black year for Europe was 1954, when France, as usual, blocked the project of a European defence that with great foresight the other founding countries, including Italy, supported. The point is that without instruments, even military, to support peace, peace will never be sure. Since 1954 sixty-five years have passed, the world, balance and balance of power have changed and certainly not in favour of Europe. The Turkish invasion from Syria, the violence of confrontation between all the countries of the Middle East quadrant, the new world war in pieces, the denunciation of the non-proliferation treaties of nuclear weapons, tell us that it is time to put on the agenda a complete European defence system, not to make war on someone, but for the authority of Europe, to give weight to our voice. I say very simply to Mr Di Maio - who has gone away, but will certainly have the opportunity to read the full report of the sitting - that he wants to fly high and be the bearer of a strong battle to develop the process of political unity in Europe, starting precisely from the creation of a European military force, which today is no longer just one of the many areas to be developed in the direction of unity, but is unfortunately an urgent and vital necessity for the future of Europe. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u46	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are very sorry to see the benches of the government all empty; even the Undersecretary speaks, the Ministers are absent, as is the Minister Di Maio, who in August wanted this Ministry at all costs, like the children with the toy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, please leave the benches of the government and allow the representative of the government to listen to the colleague who is intervening. VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. They've already decided. They have already said that they will vote against our resolution, but I will explain why they have to take responsibility for their vote against it. Each of us decides our own destiny, but the Government decides the destiny of a country, of a nation, of a people, but above all of the values of that people. I am therefore truly grounded in noticing, once again, its absence. But let's see the facts, let's see what happened. Turkey invades Syria: it is called war. There are murders, people are killed. Let us see what Turkey is, which denies the recognition of the Armenian genocide: Turkey still does not recognize the Armenian genocide today. But what has Turkey got from the European Union and Europe? Think, EUR 30 billion of financing from the European Central Bank, EUR 10 billion of pre-accession funds. What are we talking about? Feel the billions that Turkey has received: 6 billion lately, to promote Turkey compared to the immigrants who are entering its territory. What is Turkey's position on Cyprus? Turkey does not recognise Cyprus. Let's see what happened in 2018, with truly repressive acts within their nation against those who think differently from those who are in charge today. This is a world that does not belong to us, which is far from our values, a world that is really far from the values of Italy, but, I would say, Europe. As other Members of this House have pointed out, Europe is divided, but Italy must not be divided: Italy must be united on values, in order to condemn what Turkey is doing today. We must be united! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We saw a Minister who read our resolution today and then went out and left: did he read it well? I list the three main points. I don't know if I have to count 1, 2 and 3 or 1 and 2: today the Minister is not there, therefore, not being there the Minister, I can count 1, 2 and 3. I say this because sometimes you start from scratch and you get to two, but I to my little girl at the elementary school teach to count [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] First point: no to the process of Turkey's accession to Europe. He doesn't have our values. Stay out of it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Their Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to say at all costs that it is important for Turkey to enter Europe: yes, for them, but not for us. Well, Di Maio said no to that. He said no to our resolution that, in point 2, he calls for the suspension of EU funds to Turkey: stop money to Turkey. Let's see what else he says no to. He says no to point 3: control of migratory flows. These are the three commitments that we asked the Government and the Government today, through the Minister, said they were against. I would like vehemently to ask whether there is, on the part of my colleagues at the 5 Star Movement, that today they are very attentive to the Minister, the intention to listen to their Minister or to take responsibility for voting in favour of our resolution as well. I am sorry that you did not accept the proposal to vote for it separately, even for what happened a few weeks ago, to say what Turkey is: they have sent nine people out of one vehicle; they have put them there and killed them. Among these was Khalaf, thirty-five years old, Secretary of the Syrian Future Party. This is what they do to human lives. That's the difference between us and them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u49	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of Turkey's action against the Kurds in Syria under the pretext of the fight against terrorists, we cannot but invoke and be consistent with the fundamental principles of international law, the principles contained in our Constitution, which calls for the search for peaceful resolutions of the international diatribes, the principle of humanity for the atrocities we see committed and the principle of gratitude to the Kurds, who have supported the confrontation with the so-called Islamic State in the front line, with serious losses and great courage. The condemnation of this action is, therefore, necessary and sees us, with different nuances, all in agreement. This is an action implemented by atrocious means and with the help of militias among the worst in existence: we have seen the footage of beheadings, methods not very different from those of ISIS. When the principle of combating terrorism is invoked in order to implement terrorist methods, we cannot but reject such a vision. Turkey will certainly have hit terrorists, but it is mainly hitting the Kurds, who, for centuries-old issues, see them as an enemy, however, beyond the fact that they are terrorists or not. This Turkey is completely different from Turkey to which there had been openings about fifteen years ago. At the time Turkey had, at least in part, European aspirations and wanted to become a credible partner for Europe; there had also been progress in this respect. Then, perhaps also because this position had not been matched, the line has completely changed and now Turkey aspires to a role of new Ottoman Empire, with a difference: unlike the latter there seems to be a growing religious intolerance and certainly more marked than what was there at the time of that ancient Empire. The action taken by Turkey also puts in further danger and has subjected the Christian communities of that area to further, serious and heavy trials. The Christian communities of Syria are among the oldest or even the oldest in all of Christendom: they have survived in changing situations throughout the centuries and now, with the presence, in its time and in part even today, of the Islamic State and with these new acts of war, they are further endangered. They are communities that deserve all our solidarity, that should be concrete, communities have always played a role in the defence of peace, because, precisely as a minority, they have interests in this regard. It must also be said that the regime of Assad, both of the current President and of his predecessor, his father, has always maintained livable conditions for these communities. Another problem related to this action is that of foreign fighters. Many have been liberated, many others are in situations, as has been said, that put them again in a position to return to Europe, in countries from which, even if they are second-rate, they come. It is a problem that cannot be ignored: the countries of which these foreign fighters have citizenship cannot pretend that the problem does not concern them, and we need strong and incisive action. In the whole Middle East area, apart from Israel, no country meets our principles of rule of law or democracy, yet those countries must be our interlocutors for a number of reasons: because any peace and stabilisation process can only involve those on the ground; because we cannot ignore that there will be a reconstruction of Syria, of which, as has been said, Italy was the first trading partner until before the crisis began in 2011. To be present and effective, first of all Italy alone must do what it can, but above all it must act at European level so that Europe is not as absent as it has been in recent years. Europe has been absent while Russia, the United States and even China are extremely present; Europe is absent. High Representative Mogherini made no sense of his role. Of course, representing the position of the 28 EU countries is not easy, but Europe has certainly been absent, and indeed Europe, particularly Italy, is certainly closer to that area than the other partners I have mentioned. We must then, as we have proposed, give at least the availability of a force of interposition. I remember that in that area we have a great prestige because our power of interposition, UNIFIL, is largely Italian: it had extraordinary Italian commanders and extraordinary men and women in uniform who carried out a formidable task at the border between Lebanon and Israel. We therefore have the credibility to make a proposal in this regard. But a Europe that cannot have a policy, that cannot speak in defence of Christians, that is not present, weakens everyone. And even from the Italian side the fact that we have withdrawn the little that was there is not a favorable move; just as it is not the fact that the Secretary of State of the United States is asking us why we gave our airports access to Mahan Air, which the State Department of the United States investigates for its ties with terrorism, to the point of being nicknamed Air jihad. I would say that is not the position we need. The little that exists, the very little that exists in the Government's motion for a resolution does not find us opposed, but we cannot accept that there is so little and that there is no desire and willingness to influence. From the beginning we saw that the government excluded any kind of participation on the spot. Well, only words do not solve anything: you have to be there. We have repeatedly proposed action to have a common armed force in Europe. If we fail to be present on the ground and also willing to employ military personnel on the ground, we will not have credibility and we will not be able to pursue the good principles on which, at least in theory, we all agree. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u52	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, since 9 October 2019, the date of the start of the Turkish offensive in the North-East of Syria, the Movimento 5 Stars and the majority supporting this Government have put some essential milestones in tackling this international crisis. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs immediately summoned the Turkish ambassador to Italy and asked with determination for the suspension of all fighting, making the necessary pressure on Turkey to put an end to the invasion of the North of the Arab country. Mr President, it is also thanks to the courage of the Kurdish militias, particularly the Kurdish women, that even Raqqa, the capital of the so-called Islamic State, was regained, thus contributing to the definitive defeat of the terrorists led by the late Al Bagdadi, who had the purpose of forming a Salafist caliphate on the border between Syria and Iraq. Today that, in the light of the latest events, this harmful intention is blurred, a new scenario opens up, on which we must reflect even more deeply. We must reflect on the international support that was given at the beginning of 2011 to integralist fighter formations that monopolized the Syrian rebellion, causing it to degenerate into a civil war and by proxy, in which thousands of foreign fighters from several countries were trained, armed and financed. We must reflect on a direct and indirect support that has allowed these terrorist organizations to devastate an entire country, causing more than 500,000 deaths, destroying entire cities, villages, infrastructures and generating untold suffering. We must reflect on the European Union's foreign policy, which has often given way to the interests of individual states, without being able to pursue common ideals of peace and not interference in the internal affairs of other States. We must also reflect on migration policies in relation to the foreign policy that first caused foolish wars such as Libya and Syria and then had to suffer the consequences of these unholy choices that caused millions of refugees. Because of migratory pressures, the political axis of individual countries has shifted to the far right, causing waves of hatred and intolerance throughout the European Union, a real danger for those who believe in brotherhood and justice among peoples. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The attack on Syria by proxy has caused millions of refugees; according to some estimates, some 5 million of them have escaped, increasing even more the burden on neighbouring countries such as Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and the European Union. Not by chance, with a questionable agreement it was decided to bestow 6 billion euros on President Erdogan to take charge of 3 million Syrians. In recent days, the Turkish President has threatened reprisals towards Europe, reopening the flow of Syrian refugees to the borders of the European Union. This is unacceptable and we absolutely do not want to accept blackmail. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this context, President Trump's choice to withdraw his military from northern Syria has given the green light to Operation Source of Peace, another semantic scam worthy of Orwell. With this aggression against a sovereign country, in a few days the Turks occupied important slices of the Syrian border, attacking the Kurdish militias of the People's Protection Unit (YPG). I would also like to recall that the attack launched by Ankara also involved the civilian population and among the victims there is also Hevrin Khalaf, the Secretary-General of the Syrian Future Party and activist for women's rights, brutally tortured and executed at only thirty-five years during an ambush of pro-Turkish jihadist militiamen. Erdogan's objective was twofold: on the one hand to forcefully deport hundreds of thousands of refugees to Syria, on the other hand to prevent any chance of the formation of a Kurdish state at the borders. There are many instances of human rights violations by the Turkish army and paramilitary groups supporting the invasion of Northern Syria. The problem is that, since Ataturk's time, Turkish forces are strong to penetrate Syria, to restore glory to a lost empire. We in the Movimento 5 Stars are very pleased that our Minister for Foreign Affairs has immediately taken a strong and clear position, since the first days of the Turkish invasion, with the immediate convocation of their ambassador, the firm condemnation of Erdogan's military aggression and the unacceptable blackmail on refugees. We have very much appreciated the Farnesina's request for a European arms embargo on Turkey, followed by the decision to suspend the granting of new Italian military supplies to Ankara, also evaluating existing contracts. I recall to my colleague De Falco - as Minister Di Maio has just explained - that the current law in the matter, law n. 185 of 1990, does not preview automatisms for the suspensions and therefore requires ad hoc procedures, activated from time to time at the discretion of the political authority. A political will that Minister Di Maio had the courage to express, unlike the governments that preceded him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Precisely for this reason, so as not to leave these decisions at the mercy of the changing political majorities, the Movimento 5 Stars proposed a bill for the reform of Law No. 185 which provides for non-routable prohibitions and automatic suspensions. As is increasingly the case in a multilateral context, other actors have also moved, helping to suspend, at least for the time being, the Turkish offensive in Syria. The Kurds are working with the Syrian government to control the so-called Rojava, while the Turkish-Syrian border is being patrolled by Turkish-Russian forces, as a function of deterrence of new possible attacks. At this point the diplomatic centre of gravity moves to Damascus and I believe that Italy should begin to restore a diplomatic channel with Syria. We must go back to discussing with Damascus, also and not just to protect the Syrian Kurds, to whom all our recognition goes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As my fellow Members will recall, more than a year ago, I tabled a question to check whether the Syrian embassy in Rome should be reopened. This would be an important step towards re-establishing dialogue, not only on the solution of the Kurdish cause, but also on collective security threatened by jihadist terrorism, against which we must not lower our guard. The terrorist cells of ISIS, in fact, despite having lost their territorial base and their historical leader, are still strong and must be defeated with the joint effort of all countries. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The reopening of diplomatic channels with Syria would also allow to address the problem of the reconstruction of a devastated country, reconstruction to which Italy can contribute decisively. To this end, it would also be desirable to reconsider the extension of European sanctions against Syria, which damage an extremely tried population. Finally, we consider it essential to act within the United Nations to send a multilateral interposition force in agreement with Russia and Turkey: a mission of blue helmets with tasks of peace-keeping and disarmament and dismantling of pro-Turkish jihadist militias. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars motion for a resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u54	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u55	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I do not really disagree with my group. In fact, I will vote like the Group, but in disagreement with the Minister's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you vote as the Mixed Group? Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Yes, I vote like my group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then you can't intervene, Senator Nugnes. If you disagree with the vote of the Mixed Group, I will ask you to speak. If not, you have no option. Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). I vote as the Group and as the majority, but I would like to make a dissenting statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u56	This is not the place. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I call on Senator Salvini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Ferrara, Garavini, Alfieri, Casini and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u57	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00136, tabled by Senator Segre and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00176, tabled by Senator Salvini and other senators, 1-00177, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00181, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and 1-00182, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u60	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Before we go to complete the debate, I would like to make a proposal to all the parliamentary groups, which is to work, in this final part of the debate, to identify a joint motion text - I will then specify why I am talking about a motion and not a agenda - that is, to overcome, by withdrawing, the individual motions put forward by the various groups in order to achieve a common text. I do this because I think that, in the space which this House has reserved for the illustration and discussion of motions, each Group has had ample opportunity to show and illustrate its own matrix and cultural approach, with which it is given a mandate to the founding Commission. I also believe that it has been widely possible for each Group to show what the Commission's expectations for deliberation and work can be. Today, however, the theme is another: what does the Senate decide? Of course, the answer is the establishment of an extraordinary Commission which, with every initiative, promotes the firm opposition to hatred, racism and anti-Semitism. But we have two roads ahead of us: the first is the one that leads us to split up; a slippery road, in my opinion, to the extent that, by dividing ourselves into the mandate to be entrusted to the Commission, we risk creating a cultural classification that gives a different weight to a type of hatred and intolerance. I think instead of joining us... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u61	Colleagues, I can ask for attention to be paid to a proposal addressed to the whole House, to which an answer must be given. If we please, given the importance of the subject, we can devote a few minutes of attention, we will have the opportunity to give a coherent answer. Go ahead, Senator Ferrari.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u62	I was saying that in order to avoid, by dividing us on the votes, suggesting that this Senate has implicitly formulated a ranking of cultural weight, diversity of hatred and intolerance, I think we must follow the other path, namely that there is no ranking, that there is only one direction of work on which this House gives the Commission a mandate. Above all, this Assembly carries out a symbolic act in setting up, before any other institution in this country, a Commission aimed at reducing all forms of hatred and intolerance in this country. For these reasons, I would ask that these minutes be used, which we still have in general discussion in order to achieve a rewording of the Segre motion. I say this because the instrument of the motion, when an extraordinary Commission is being set up, seems to me more appropriate than a summary agenda. Therefore, my hope is that the Segre motion will be revised, allowing the first signature to be, precisely, the Segre senator to follow all the first signatures, in order of consistency of the Presidents of all the Senate Groups. I should like to end, Mr President, by thanking you for the time you have given me, by saying that this House cannot even remain indifferent to the presence of Senator Segre. No hypocrisy, but no indifference. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u65	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to put forward the speech I would have made in this debate and, therefore, I would ask the Offices to remove my name from the list of Members to speak. Undoubtedly, we gather the Democratic Party's invitation to try to find a solution for a joint motion, given the very delicate issue. Clearly, we are all in complete agreement that we want to combat all forms of hatred, violence and anti-Semitism. There's a problem, though. We of Senator Segre trust, because we know that hers is a proposal based on good faith, on the will to really try to counter certain phenomena. In others, we do not have this confidence, because we are afraid that, as always, when these Commissions are set up, they will end up being instrumentalized. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let me give you an example. In fact, I make more than one, so we understand each other. To claim that the family is made up of man and woman is viewed by someone as hatred of other types of families? Yes or no? Because someone points it out. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To argue that Islamics also carry the germ of anti-Semitism, since when they do demonstrations they burn Israel's flags in the streets, is it considered hate or not? We want these answers! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To argue that illegal immigration certainly brings difficulties to our country and that it can also endanger our lifestyle and our civilization is considered a form of hatred? These answers are crucial to understanding what we want to go and set up. We do not want, in fact, that, starting from a good proposal of the Senator Segre, of which we have great and absolute respect, and that we admire in his will to battle and to carry forward certain themes, always and anyway (so, from this point we agree), we do not arrive at a text that then, being disliked to the political correctness and, therefore, to the dominant thought, is used to affect the opinions of other people or other subjects. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So our position depends on what and how the majority respond to the questions I put on the table. If the text of the motion makes it clear that freedom of opinion is being protected and that all this, even disliked to political correctness, must, in fact, be preserved, precisely because freedom of opinion must be guaranteed, at this point we will be very happy to table a joint motion. Otherwise, everyone will vote for their own and assume their own responsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u66	Colleagues, I would like to point out to the Group Leaders, who obviously have the right to intervene, precisely as Group Leaders, which is precisely the request made by my colleague, Mr Ferrari. If there is a time to meet as the Presidency proceeds with the speeches under discussion, which will lead to a shared position, then at the end of this time we will be able to make a unified proposal. Otherwise, the Assembly will vote on the individual motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u69	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to refer to my explanation of vote on what I think about the motion. With regard to the subject raised by my colleague Ferrari, whom I appreciate and appreciate (and I must say that I also appreciated his attempt to bring everyone together in a joint motion), I say to you, President, that the Italia Viva Group will not sign a motion with the Lega Group because the contents are radically alternative, considered (both as written and as said by Senator Romeo. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you for being there!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u72	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, with regard to the proposal that has just been put forward, there seems to be no time for a joint motion if we do not first sit around a table and see what we are talking about. The motion under discussion at the first signature of Senator Segre raises many critical points. We will explain this during the explanation of vote, however, in order to anticipate the issue, considering the voices of hatred included in the current motion, it is in fact excluded Brothers of Italy and it is clear that it becomes a problem for us to have a motion that does not recognize us and that places among the words to be stigmatized, for example, nationalism and ethnocentrism. From this point of view we come to include, among the watchwords that are the responsibility of the Commission, even epithets, prejudices or stereotypes that want to say everything or the opposite of everything. Therefore, if the Segre senator or other groups want to propose a motion that really contrasts the words of hatred and that actually aims at a Commission that contrasts anti-Semitism and all forms of liberticide, Brothers of Italy will be very happy to join you and will have the honour to accompany their signature to that of the Segre senator. If the motion remains the original motion, unfortunately it will not be able to do so. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u75	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I welcome the proposal made by Senator Ferrari. We will be very attentive to the text that will be proposed to us. We also believe that a unified solution would be appropriate, because on a subject of this kind it would be almost paradoxical to divide. We share concerns about some aspects, particularly the premises, of the first-signed motion by Senator Segre. We therefore want a text which does not give the idea of reaching conclusions before the Commission is set up. We hope that this will succeed and that a united text will be presented because it is a question of agreeing to remove the water in which swims who want to fuel the hatred that is too often transformed into violence and is a cancer for society. I therefore believe that we should be able to reach an agreement on this. Senator Romeo has put some conditions, unfortunately Senator Pharaoh, instead, has put a preliminary question and even said that he will not sign prejudiceally. I hope that, despite this, we can come to a conclusion because one thing is the conditions, another is the fundamental prejudice that leads to not signing anything together with the others. I believe that we should give a positive example of tolerance and, in accordance with the principles we share, I believe that we should move towards a unified solution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u76	Pending the political synthesis, let us continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u77	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing a grateful and moved thought and thanking the Senator Segre, the promoter of this important initiative for her presence. A gratitude that joins, in these days, the solidarity for the multiplication of attacks on his person, especially on the web. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear to those who listen to us and to all of Italy who offended Liliana Segre - it has to be said forcefully - are offended to all of us, to all of us, to our country, to Italy. The Senator Segre is a beacon of lucidity, balance, passion for freedom, equality, mutual respect, themes very dear to me. In the most difficult moments, she has always made her voice heard with great courage, reminding us of the value of memory and above all the importance of remaining vigilant, of always being attentive, with eyes wide open. In these moments - let me tell you - my affection, my thanks and I believe that of the whole Senate go to the President of the Republic for giving us this wonderful colleague and for having appointed Senator Secret Senator for life. Thank you, President. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] The last few years have seen increased public manifestations of hatred, through speeches, declarations and concrete episodes of discrimination and violence. It is very painful to say so, but in many cases words of hatred have also been used in political and institutional fora. From this concern comes the urgent need to set up a special Commission to monitor, monitor, but also and above all, colleagues, to reflect, study and understand the deepest reasons for this phenomenon, of which many of us, as well as Senator Segre, and myself, have often been the subject. The establishment of a special Commission is very important to begin to sew, to put back together the pieces of the social and civil fabric of this country, to try to sew this our Italy, to return to a responsible use of language, at a certain level, and above all to learn to recognize violence and also to identify the most appropriate tools to fight it. That is why the Commission must be set up, and above all it must be put in a position to work quickly and well. It is not enough and it will not be enough to put on the chest the medal of today's vote, a simple medal and then we will see: the establishment of the Commission must be fast and must follow a real and serious political commitment. You see, ladies and gentlemen, behind the proposal of Senator Segre there is a fundamental intuition: the importance of making light with responsibility and courage on one of the darkest sides of our time and of doing so through a Commission of technicians, but above all politicians. It is the policy that must assume upon itself the responsibility of returning to read the country, of interpreting every turn and especially every wound. Hate and violence, in all their manifestations, are a sign of social crumbling, but when hatred and violence are directed towards those who are vulnerable or to those who are considered different, we witness a qualitative leap of this violence that cannot leave us indifferent. (1.25 p.m.) (Cyrinna followed). In these cases, in fact, not only peaceful coexistence is undermined, but the same sense of civil and political cohesion as our country is put at risk. I am thinking of hatred and violence against foreigners, fed together with an insulting and dangerous war on the last and the penultimate. I am thinking of violence against women, which stems from the lack of a culture of respect and equality. Finally, I am thinking of the hatred and violence against people and the LGBT+ community, which in recent months have again been one of the favorite targets of the worst propaganda, from the rainbow families that "do not exist" - even a minister in this House said - to the ridicule of the gender identity and dignity of transsexual people, passing through endless episodes of violence. The motion also mentions gender identity and sexual orientation among the reasons that inspire hatred and violence. It does not happen often, and this too must be acknowledged to the wisdom of Senator Segre; words that are not widespread in many acts of politics, which you used instead. I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me say, however, that on this particular point we do not have much time; it is time to take courage and adopt a law against discrimination and homobitransphobia, such as the one that has just been framed in the House. It is time for this Commission to set up and work well. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u79	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u80	Mr President, we also thank the life-long senator Liliana Segre for promoting this initiative and this motion. We therefore strongly support the establishment of this Commission. I would like to take this opportunity to quote the words of Hannah Arendt, in his famous essay "The Banality of Evil. Eichmann in Jerusalem: It was not stupid: it was simply without ideas (a thing very different from stupidity), and that lack of ideas made it an individual prepared to become one of the greatest criminals of that period. Lack of ideas, lack of ability to imagine, lack of ability to understand what was happening; to be exclusively lowered into one's daily reality, to have lost the ability to think from someone else's point of view, sometimes even to be frighteningly normal - to use Hannah Arendt's words - can lead to transforming us into keyboard lions, that sow hatred because they are deprived of that ability that yesterday Tomaso Montanari reminded us, quoting Marc Bloch, consist in the search for the truth, in the method of doubt that disrupts all authoritarianism, therefore in the study of history, but above all in taking for example the historical method to develop in each of us that critical thinking ability that is that which leads us to always have as I will do the doubt and not to let ourselves be victims of our daily reality, that alienates us from the present and that no longer makes us feel empathy towards our neighbor. Closed in total selfishness, we become keyboard lions, where we unload the frustrations resulting from our lack of ideas, from our lack of critical thinking, from our lack of a project and a perspective for the future. As the Commission of Inquiry also proposes to pursue proposed actions, I hope that it will also have a predominant role to play in guiding, together with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, projects aimed at filling this lack of imagination, ideas and critical thinking. Otherwise we will not have a real change of cultural perspective and unfortunately legislation will not be enough to break down a trend that sees again all the minorities in the world, at national and international level, victims of narratives aimed mostly at obtaining electoral consensus. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u81	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we still hear in our ears the insults and screams of the members of Casa Pound a few months ago, in Torre Maura, while they were violently trampling the sandwiches dedicated to children hosted in a reception centre. We still have the images of the Stones of stumbling up and stolen a few months ago in the center of Rome. It is the same bewilderment and the same sense of impotence that we have experienced in these days coming to learn of the insults, offenses and vulgarity that have been addressed to Senator Liliana Segre, whom we thank for her great commitment to witnessing [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] and also for making herself the author of the motion that we are going to approve today. They are just some of the examples of those expressions of violence and discriminatory acts that are increasing consistently in our country; over 700 have been reported in a year, which means that they have quadrupled in a single year. They are only the tip of an iceberg since all the cases should be added instead not denounced because perhaps they are afraid of retaliation or because they are afraid of not finding protection. It's an escalation that worries a lot about numbers. But above all we are concerned about another aspect, namely the growing legitimacy that is taking place in Italy, regardless of whether it is personal attacks, on the Net or verbal attacks. There is a customs clearance unfortunately also by institutional representatives. More and more insult becomes daily practice; incitement to violence becomes a characterizing element or even a reason for boasting. I am thinking, for example, just to give concrete expression to attacks on refugees, attacks on NGOs, attacks on political opponents, who have a supportive approach on the issues of migrants. In the 2018 parliamentary elections Amnesty International, the most important independent organisation dealing with human rights, analyzing what was the election campaign, noted how some Italian parties propose discriminatory stereotypes, racist or inciting hatred and violence. It is no wonder that he identifies these parties in the right hemisphere of this Parliament and - I repeat - we do not say so, but an international organisation. In the light of this emerging situation, I believe that it is extremely important that we, here in the heart of the institutions, as Parliament, have an instrument, that of a Commission against hatred, against incitement to violence, aware that precisely in the folds of the institutions we are going to destroy the hatred and xenophobia that we want to combat. Unfortunately, we can also note this in certain passages of the motions presented today. For example, in that of the League - and I address my colleagues in that Group - where it is expressly written - that it is difficult to give racism a national emergency dimension. How do you do that, in the light of the data I just mentioned? Mr President, I would like to say this through you: who minimizes hatred and racism plows up the ground that leads to the increase in hatred and racism and makes them responsible. Therefore, Mr President, I still hope that my colleagues in the minority will reconsider and sign the motion by Senator Segre, in the same wording as we have tabled today. This would be an important symbolic message, not only for the country, but also for our consciences. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u83	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Segre, there is an ideology of racism that risks taking hold in this difficult time, made up of too many wrong policies and social injustices; an ideology that is used in an unjudged way, to gain electoral consensus, to deceive those who are weaker and to put him not against the powerful, but against those who are even weaker, like migrants, like those who flee from wars and atrocities, pointed to as usurpers. There is an exponential increase in cases of violence linked to racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, neofascism, which in order to be eradicated must first be called by their name and denounced openly, without ever closing their eyes. Racism and hatred are subtle viruses, which poison our way of thinking and feed on indifference, omerta, as happens with the mafia, and, like the mafia, they are a bug in our consciences. For them to be defeated, it is necessary for our democracy to be alive, to give answers to those who feel alone, excluded, marginalized, to succeed in tearing down the walls of inequalities. To defeat them will serve an army of masters, as Gesualdo Bufalino said, because it is the knowledge that makes free, self-confident and partakers of the destiny of others, which is our destiny; free from the chains of prejudice and stereotypes, from the frustration that leads to intolerance, from the propaganda of the language of hatred, of denigration, that corrupts society, that criminalizes solidarity, that betrays the values of our Constitution, first of all Article 3, which says that all citizens are equal, without distinctions. Democracy is based on equality, where fascism encoded its character in the abomination of racial laws. We have a duty to say this: how bad does it hurt to have an interior minister who ignores 25 April, who publishes books with publishers close to neo-fascist organizations? How much damage does history mess up? Fascism was tyranny; the partisans gave us freedom: this must be known to our children, to know which side to stand on. Fascism has its forms at all times and racism is one of them. Suprematism is one of these: the ideology that says that someone comes before others, the manipulatory technique of the scapegoat, the different against which to direct the malaise and resentment, an emotional engagement on the contrary, destructive, used already in the past by all totalitarianism and that today is pumped incessantly on the web, therefore everywhere, in a continuous corruption of morals, values, that can swallow up our democracy. That is why strict rules are needed: because coexistence is a fragile ground, which must be fed, cared for and protected. Senator Segre, yours, our motion has enormous civil and political value. It is one with the battle not to lose memory, to study history, to teach what it was, to give the new generations the necessary awareness of the time they live, of the inestimable value of the rule of law, which is the antithesis of abuse. Wherever you go, Senator Secret, especially in schools, there's an overflowing affection for you, and I want to thank you, too. His testimony is an antidote to the poison of discrimination. And then thank you for being here, thank you for living, for proving that you were born without guilt and, instead, with the gift and the strength to show the signs impressed on his forearm and to have transformed them from symbols of death into symbols of life for all of us. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Falco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u85	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u86	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my speech is almost the last of this long roundup in which we have intertwined not only the testimonies of esteem, appreciation, sympathy and affection towards my colleague Segre by all of us, but also our fears that, in some way, germinate those seeds of intolerance that we could probably manage to overcome only with an act of great courage such as the signing of a united motion. It is fundamental, as was said earlier, the unitary value of the motion, as our deputy leader Lucio Malan pointed out, because it would be the sign that a part of the battle has already been fought and won. If, in fact, the Commission is born without being able to find ideas of understanding and dialogue within it, it is very difficult for it to be able to confront those outside. The motion - it also says in its header - means no to intolerance in racial matters, religious divisions and in all its forms. In so many ways it has emerged that the web is the place where, sometimes, this hatred and hostility grow. I think everyone is pleased to know that yesterday the bicameral committee for children, chaired by Mrs Ronzulli, unanimously approved a document which says no to the violence on the web. It is a convinced and determined no to cyberbullying. Sometimes, the word bullying takes on a somewhat reductive meaning, as if it only applies to the context of minors, children and adolescents. This is not the case; there is an adult bullying that hurts, hurts, humiliates and offends. Yesterday's document, signed unanimously - I would like to stress this - says no. He says so, however, at the channel through which violence runs and does not say no to the reasons for violence. It says no to means and ways and, instead, we need to say no to purposes and reasons. That is why it is necessary for each of us to question where the fundamental germ of violence lies. We know this: the germ is rooted in the fear that each of us in some way in life, on a personal level or even at the level of a small group of belongings, can experience. I remember - it is in these days the centenary of the birth of John Paul II - his debut. We all remember it looking out the window of Piazza San Pietro and saying: Don't be afraid! He was a man who came from a personal experience of struggle, who had lived on his skin the Second World War, invasions, Nazism and communism. Well, he stands as a man zipper and peace saying: Don't be afraid! Not surprisingly, in a few days we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. There is no person who does not know that, beyond diplomatic negotiations, behind the fall of the Berlin Wall there is the incessant work of John Paul II, the man who knew how to say: Don't be afraid! Hence our message against the violence that can arm the voice - words can be stones that strike and hurt - and unfortunately, sometimes, even the hand with serious, heavy and deeply hurtful gestures. Behind these words of fear, there is the fact that man cannot look with confidence at others. I believe that this is the gesture of confidence that we deserve to be carried out here and it is a gesture of confidence that we deserve for the commitment that each of us is deeply involved in our daily parliamentary life, but also because each of us is here because of the expression of a piece of the Italian people. If we can find the terms unitive within us, then the Italian people will find a more reason to discover a single people that goes towards shared works that create the conditions of integration, of well-being, of a development in the light of the intelligence put at the service of all the others. We need this Commission. Moreover, in the beginning of the report accompanying the motion bearing the first signature of my colleague, Mr Segre, we refer to a motion which in the 14th legislature bore the signature of our current president, Elisabetta Alberti Casellati. You then spoke of a motion that had human rights as a horizon of meaning: I was struck by this. In this parliamentary term, together with many other colleagues, we are part of this Commission. Each Commission is made transparent and the plurality of its positions is expressed in proportion to the number of people present in Parliament. That is a Human Rights Commission. I wondered how this Commission on human rights will work together, because in its genetic imprinting it wanted to base the protection of human rights, the right to have its own faith, the right to its own land, the right to move freely in its own territory. It will be beautiful, it will be positive, it will be rich to collaborate together; it will be a service, a sign of hope that we want to give. One thing is certain, namely that violence and intolerance take on the most diverse nuances. Yesterday we heard mention - and some of our colleagues in the Democratic Party also wanted to take up the topic - of some violent expressions of our colleagues in the League, but we heard mention of the violence that is still operational today, for example with regard to issues as strong and hard to swallow as those that led to the experience of the Foibe. I remember that a few months ago for the first time we were able to see a film, one of the few, that deals with the theme of the foibes with depth and lucidity, but also in the light of a great key of reading that is the dynamics of forgiveness. The beauty of that film, Red Land, for those who had seen it or not, is an explicit signal, because it ends precisely by referring to forgiveness. There is no chance of overcoming one's fears; there is no chance of dealing with the violence suffered except in a perspective called forgiveness. We must begin the work of this Commission by putting these stakes, human rights understood as universal rights, rights of all, personal commitment at the level of each of us in its singularity and at the common level in our collegiality, the magnanimity of forgiveness, the ability to say "just" to what has divided us so far, "just" to what has so far been the object of wars. Let me take a ride to the close, which might almost look like a boutade. We would not have this present government, absit iniuria verbis, wherever each of us is placed, in the majority or the opposition, if the groups that are part of it had not been able to accomplish what to those who lived in the previous legislature seems an absolute miracle. The five stars of the previous legislature, at least in the House - and you, President, were present - were the only target of the Democratic Party, which rewarded them with equal currency. If there had not been the magnanimity of this sort - let us also call it that - of forgiveness, of integration, of looking at each other with different eyes, we would not have the Government. And we will have the government, beyond the assessments of so many political, economic, financial law and all you want, as long as there can be this gaze that recognizes in the other the ability to look in the same direction, which is the good of the country. Therefore, gentlemen, perhaps it is still possible to find a unified solution to this motion. I hope that everyone will have common sense, courage and a message of hope to give to the whole country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Segre for her presence in this House and for her motion. I have tried to go deeper in the reasons why societies discriminate and why people are discriminated against. In an epoch like the present one, crossed by uncertainties and often by cultural degradation, it seems absolutely vital and necessary to reaffirm with force its own identity, there is a strong need to anchor its own existence and in doing so it seems equally necessary and inevitable to define also what is different from itself, in order to better define who we are; very often, however, the models to which we refer do not actually belong to us. Attention: this also means excluding something from us and, unfortunately, establishing a hierarchical scale. The exclusive unity that our multiple identities proclaim is in fact built within a game of power and exclusion. Stereotypes are tools for simplifying a complex reality. The discourses that draw on fear of the different become devices of control of uncertainty and power over others. It is, in practice, a matter of governing with fear. Speeches and rhetorics are fundamental, they are the instrument for the construction - in negative terms - of these differences, and that is what we are talking about today, of hate speech, of speeches that incite hatred and intolerance. The European Court of Human Rights has avoided giving a precise definition of hate speech, preferring not to limit its scope. The aim is to take into account the various circumstances of the concrete case, while the possibility of hate speech being addressed to different categories built on racial, sexual, religious, ethnic, political bases. I believe that this approach, taken from the first-signed motion of Senator Segre, is worthy because it opens the way to a transversal approach that looks at the individual case and to how the different dimensions of discrimination can multiply and even intersect with a disastrous cumulative and cross-sectional effect (being a woman and disabled, for example, or being homosexual and elderly), thus making visible people or groups particularly vulnerable within minorities or recognized categories: drawers. Gender and other cultural and physical dimensions are constantly interacting in people's lives, but there is still a strong resistance to recognizing the multiple identities of each, their complexity and simultaneous belonging to multiple categories and social groups of each. Instead, it is desirable that this step be taken to recognize the varied daily experiences of discrimination and violence that the discourses of incitement to intolerance convey towards those who are told as different, towards those who are others, understood as alterity by themselves; but often it is a fictitious alterity, built by difference from an ideal citizen model: implicitly the male, white, of middle or high class, heterosexual, from which, in fact, all of us for some reason depart. All this is aggravated by the fact that we are discussing issues of public interest in spaces that are partly new: I am referring to the web and social media. Spaces in which public opinion is formed, which are no longer populated by subjects responsible for the production of information, but also and increasingly by subjects often not experienced (and I use euphemism), which constitute a galaxy of informal information sources. This huge mass of information and news many times is disconnected from reality and this approximate perception of reality, facilitates the circulation of information partially or completely false. It is therefore important to have an ad hoc body that makes correct data and information available so that genuine participation in public debate and the construction of shared policies can be made possible. It is a body which is at the same time placed in a position to oppose acts and speeches that incite intolerance, hatred and violence against persons or groups on the basis of certain characteristics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is obviously not intended, as some have feared, to restrict freedom of expression. The point, if anything, is to guarantee everyone access to an informed debate, the coexistence between individuals and between groups that have heterogeneous and plural orientations and that have always represented the richness of a democracy. The diversity has always been there, there is now and there will always be, inside and outside of us, just start not to be afraid anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u89	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u90	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u91	Mr President, it is clear to everyone that this is not a matter of government, even for the instrument that has rightly been used. However, the Government wishes to ensure that it is present at the discussion and voting stage in order to express its participation in a very dear topic and in the initiative of Senator Segre. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u92	I therefore suspend the work of the House, which will resume at 4.30 p.m. with explanations of vote. (The sitting was suspended at 13.57 p.m. and resumed at 16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u95	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Senator Segre's motion. I am pleased that you are voting on your motion, as it has been tabled, for the value in itself that this motion represents. The benefits of a public debate intended to be held in Parliament are greater than those of any other form of decision - so Hans Kelsen - so that the setting up of a parliamentary committee of inquiry does not mean a trial of history, but a parliamentary investigation to prevent history from happening again. The news of these days has seen the attack on the Synagogue of Halle, the assault of fifty neo-Nazis in uniform at the Jewish cultural center of Budapest and, in Thuringia, the electoral success of those who called the monument to the Holocaust a shame. The Senate, in approving the institution of the Parliamentary Commission, as conceived by Senator Segre, takes on the will and commitment, to say it in Voltaire's words, to affirm an idea of universality and freedom understood as the result of an incessant struggle of reason against all forms of obscurantism and, therefore, the prevalence of reason, knowledge, culture as the only authentic antidote to hatred, racism and anti-Semitism. It is not only a parliamentary decision but also the recognition and enhancement of certain fundamental rights: the dignity of man and his equality. The recognition of fundamental rights in religious matters, as enshrined in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Articles 19 and 20 of our Constitution, is at stake. In recent days we have witnessed yet another indecent, intolerable and vile manifestation of hatred through the Network against the Segre senator by anti-Semites protected by anonymity, a phenomenon not only national. Just think of the words of Felix Klein, Commissioner of the German Government for the fight against anti-Semitism - and here I would like to open a parenthesis: we should also appoint one as soon as possible - who called for new rules for the web to counter what is happening in Germany today. I believe that our Parliament must seriously raise the question of whether it is democracy to allow such insults and expressions because they are protected by the fundamental right of freedom of thought or, vice versa, to make democracy unworkable, through identifications, searches or referrals to judgment, the spread of racism or anti-Semitism. And the argument is not adduced that to manage the platforms are foreign companies, because all this happens in violation of our Constitution and the laws that implement it. No more uncertainties, no more weaknesses. Yes to regulations capable of sanctioning all forms of hatred, racism, anti-Semitism so that, be it clear, we are always talking about actions of men against other men, we are talking, to say it in the words of Hannah Arendt, about the lesson of the frightening, unspeakable and unimaginable banality of evil. Today our vote is not an ordinary vote: it is the reaffirmation of a principle of universalization by which the norms, in order to be valid, must be recognized by all. It is the reaffirmation of a parliamentary ethics which, as Kelsen said, does not itself produce the rules but, in the light of that principle, verify the claim of validity. Setting up a Commission of Inquiry to combat intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence is an important, very important vote. It is not a question of asserting the justice of the winners but of making the values of justice, tolerance, reason, human dignity win, in order to make the Italian Parliament feel strong the call to the right of every individual to freedom of thought, conscience and religion as an inalienable right that no neo-fascist regurgitation, nor sovereignist claim, can ever, I repeat, ever question. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u98	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Senator Liliana Segre for tabling the motion for the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence, which I, with conviction, signed with many colleagues. Such phenomena are not new, nor are they the result of the Internet or social networks, as a superficial reading wants to make it seem. Unfortunately, they have always been in our society, they grow in the shadows and moments of crisis can re-emerge from the darkness of the past ghosts, feelings, passwords, emulations, dangerous shortcuts. The preaching of hatred is amplified and spread by the means of communication available. If the totalitarianisms of the twentieth century have used radio, cinema and newspapers, today as a megaphone are undoubtedly the Internet and social networks where the phenomenon explodes in all its evidence as a symptom but it is not there that it is born. In the last few days, news has hit me and I believe all of us. One mother denounced to the authorities a group WhatsApp entitled "The Shoah Party" in which they shared phrases, videos, images of Nazism, racism, anti-Semitism, ISIS and child pornography: a cauldron of the worst that can be found online managed by a 15-year-old and with most of the underage members. It is evident that the long series of shortcomings in this history starts from families, from the educating community, in general from adults, as it is clear that the first rule, in general complicity, is the one on the minimum age of registration to the various social platforms. At the same time, it is misleading and ridiculous to think that we can regulate such access through identity documents: firstly because it represents a further transfer of data to private platforms - the documents - with risks of identity theft, secondly because the Internet has no borders, social media are international and any kind of national limitation can be easily bypassed by any 12-year-old media intelligence. As an adult, I think this is a huge problem with the time we live in. We must use words of clarity, in order not to reduce this debate of ours and the work of the Commission which we are going to set up today in a hypocritical way to wash our consciences on the one hand, while on the other we do nothing concrete to eradicate the ignorance, anger and beliefs underlying these phenomena. In this Chamber too, I have heard someone say that immigration is the cause of racism. Many of us will have seen the in-depth analysis that "Report" has dedicated to online manipulation techniques managed and paid by political groups and I think they will be surprised to see that some actions were targeted precisely at a target of minors. We can make committees, conferences, deep speeches and shields, but as long as they are allowed and exploited for electoral convenience, these methods, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of politics will not help the solution, but rather will aggravate the problem. How many times have the social profiles of political leaders been preaching news based on false elements, fake news, in order to gain consensus? A lot. And how many times has there been an adjustment from the same profiles? None. The exploitation of these techniques, the daily stylicide in which real and false news are mixed, abusive terms, false threats and disproportionate data, have over the years atrophied our civic sense. On the other hand, discourses and discriminatory and racist acts, not a few times fomented or carried out by politicians and administrators, go so far as to multiply and trivialize that racism risks becoming common sense. A common sense constantly strengthened by the role played by the mass media, powerful repeaters and amplifiers. What was once socially unacceptable is now being proudly vindicated and accepted - alas - with indifference, but discrimination, racism, hate speech must be studied and opposed, analysed for what they are and what they sometimes become: not only a set of ideas, opinions, representations, stereotypes, prejudices, nor just a system of ideas that directs action, but the premise for serious behaviors of discrimination, segregation, rejection, contempt and finally aggression. Also thanks to the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence, phenomena such as xenophobia and racism will finally be at the centre of political and institutional attention. In fact, the collections of statistical data and, above all, the in-depth analysis based on the observation of empirical cases, on the collection of testimonies of victims and creators of situations of discrimination and racism will be extremely useful. Senator Segre, we know your story and your strength well. The insults he receives every day do not have the power to disturb him and this is a further lesson he offers us. But allow me to testify to you, in addition to thanking you for this proposal, also our closeness and affection. The hierarchy of hostility and contempt generally changes in relation to the social and political climate, the orientation of the media, the attitude of the institutions, certain national and international events and the translation of the media. Then we must have at heart any person who is the object of racism, in the awareness - history teaches us - that each of us, for one of its characteristics, could become a victim of it. To win this battle there is a need for great critical sense and concrete proposals, with priority attention to education and school, which has long been equipped to deal with these problems, without keeping them silent and underestimating them. For these reasons, I would like to announce the vote in favour of Mr Liberi and Mr Uguali and I wish the Commission every success. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups and the Secret Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u101	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing a regret (in his speech on the proposal, Mr Alan Ferrari did so just now): the regret that unfortunately we cannot find unity in this House on issues such as these. Once, on such objective subjects, on a motion of this kind, especially if proposed by a personality like Senator Segre, the proposals would be presented in two minutes and an understanding would be found. Unfortunately today - I have to say mainly because of the colleagues of the League and of the Brothers of Italy [[Comments from the FdI Group]] - this is no longer successful and it is a problem for democracy, Mr President. I am very concerned and I address my colleagues in Forza Italia, asking and appealing to them not to follow them in this direction anymore. I say this because I had read the text of the motion tabled by my colleagues in Forza Italia a few days ago, before the vote in Umbria, and I have to say that I had spoken with my colleagues in my Group, saying that we would vote in favour of that motion, because it was a motion that essentially repeated the same things that are written in the first-signed motion of the Senator Segre, followed by the signatures of the majority group leaders. Unfortunately, it has happened and I have noticed that after the vote in Umbria the motion of Forza Italia has changed. Originally I had read a text that had convinced me to vote in favour, then fortunately I had the opportunity to read the second motion and I saw that the text had been changed and that there were some periods that went in the direction that worries me and that I mentioned just now being expressed by the League and by the Brothers of Italy. The appeal is to keep the bar straight on these themes. When he entrusts - I say this to his colleagues in the League - to Morisi not only the social communication of that party and not only the Facebook page of Salvini, but also the drafting of a motion on such a delicate subject, he stops being a party that expresses positive values for this democracy and begins to become, also as a party and as a parliamentary group, a factory of hatred. When you too stop making assessments, you will realize, reading the motion that the Senator Segre has as the first signatory, that there is not, dear Senator Romeo, an assessment on who says what: there is simply an assessment aimed at imputing to someone a crime or in any case the responsibility for some statements for what he says, regardless of where he comes from. It places itself in a motion, as the Groups of the League and Brothers of Italy have done, the theory that sees, on the one hand, negationism for that crime and condemnation of those statements, justifying them by the fact that in the country there is social discomfort, and, on the other hand, the affirmation that there are some categories, such as the extreme left or the Islamic, from which they would prove anti-Semitic statements or that they exalt everything that has been the past Nazi, fascist and everything we know. Well, when I read a sentence like this: "This Jewish shit is called Liliana Segre, ask yourself what the fuck is done to become a life-span senator paid by us and it's pro-invasion? Hitler didn't do your job well (sic!), I don't care about a tube of which are the political membership, the culture of origin or the religion that professes itself: it's an insult and that's it! [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). It's obvious. FARAONE (IV-PSI). Therefore, to write in the parliamentary motions that if someone who has been taken away from the people's home by an immigrant is legitimate, because a social discomfort has been exalted, and if a migrant or one from the extreme left says so, it becomes a crime of hatred, it is really a scandalous thing! [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] The negationist theory you're pursuing is wrong. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u102	Colleagues, let Senator Pharaoh finish. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There has just been a mention in this House of a concern about the single thought: let us let our colleague finish and everyone can express their intentions. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bossi Simone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u103	Instead, the motion of the League - and that's why I refer to Morisi - is a bit like Salvini's page: it only publishes videos of the crimes that are made by some... BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let him move on. Bravo! [[Ironic applause from Senator Bossi Simone.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). See, Senator Secret, what's your motion for? FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask you whether you can speak in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on, Senator Pharaoh, arguing how we all expect you. FARAONE (IV-PSI). They disturb me relatively, but perhaps they can keep the vocal cords at rest for when they have to say what they think of the motion. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As well as, President, I remember very well when in this House, always from the benches of the League, Senator Salvini bothered us to return to vote, because it was necessary to go to the vote immediately... [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Pull up some signs or I won't get hurt. A few signs, please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Pharaoh finish. There will also be an intervention by the Lega Group, Senator Pucciarelli, who will have the opportunity to reply if he believes it. I still remember when it was said that the senators for life were figures that had to be called into question in the Constitution because they did not understand what great reasons they were here. I remember that Senator Secret, as well as the other senators for life, but right now we're talking about her, she doesn't have to justify to anyone because she's a senator. I would remind you that he is among the 25 surviving children of 776 prisoners in the concentration camp in Auschwitz; he is a prestigious figure, which we wish to chair the Commission that we will be going to set up. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Because more than you and better than you, no one could represent what we think this Commission should do, that is to be able to create the conditions for this country not to be dragged into hatred and on that hatred any political force can build its own consensus. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, we are voting in favour of the motion which sees Senator Segre as the first signatory. We would have liked and preferred to sign and vote on a motion unanimously. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). You said no! Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Drink less! FARAONE (IV-PSI). Because on these issues we will return. We will be a civil and worthy country when we are no longer divided on these issues. Unfortunately, we are not allowed, because the League and the Brothers of Italy have transformed and are transforming this country into a factory of hatred. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.Protests from Groups L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI]] DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Shut up! Buffoon! You're a provocateur!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u104	Colleagues, we are discussing a motion that tends to stigmatize hatred. Let's try to respond with the strength of the arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u107	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, before any other matter, I would like to express my and the Brothers of Italy's solidarity with Senator Liliana Segre for the ignoble attacks she has received. Anyone who pours hate towards a woman who has suffered as a child the drama of deportation to a concentration camp is not only a coward, but also an idiot. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The persecution suffered by thousands of Italian citizens in those years is a disgrace to our nation. We are discussing what we call the Secret Commission today. Unfortunately - and I say this without controversy with regard to Senator Segre - it is not the Secret Commission. It is no coincidence that the second signatory is Senator De Petris of the LEU party, the same as the President of the House of last legislature, Mr Boldrini, who, as President of the House, chaired the Commission Jo Cox. Any of you will be able to verify the Commission's final acts. Well, the Commission that we are debating today is exactly the Boldrini Commission's reproposition, with an operation that is reproduced in the Senate, undermining that Commission with arguments that have little to do with the aims of the Boldrini Commission. The aim, we shall see in my speech, is nothing more than to equip this Parliament with an instrument of censorship against those who do not align themselves with the dominant single thinking, putting a hat which is hardly argumentable outside this House, which is precisely anti-Semitism. Brothers of Italy is a party that fiercely fights anti-Semitism. He has always done so, and that is why we have presented motions that are not provocative, as someone wanted to say before, but on the substance. The main world observers of the Jewish State and the phenomenon of anti-Semitism in Europe certify worrying and increasing forms of anti-Semitism in Europe, mainly linked to the phenomena of Islamic fundamentalism and a massive anti-Semitic Islamic immigration in Europe. Precisely for this reason we asked in the first motion of Brothers of Italy to introduce, among the topics that must deal with a Commission that wants to combat anti-Semitism, the theme of Islamic fundamentalism, because, if we do not talk about Islamic fundamentalism and talk about Islamophobia, we are not making a spite of the Brothers of Italy, but the thousands of Jews who had to leave Europe and move to Israel because they were persecuted by Islamic fundamentalists. This is certified in the studies of those who protect the Jewish communities in Europe., We then ask that our first motion be accepted. Again with regard to anti-Semitism, the same studies of the protection of Jewish communities in Europe certify that the second form of growing anti-Semitism in Europe is the one connected with the extreme left, which is gradually shifted from anti-Israeli positions to anti-Semitic positions. We see it clearly every April 25, when the Jewish brigade is contested during the celebrations of April 25, precisely because anti-Semitism has now become part of the DNA of the extreme left. Then, of course, extreme right movements are also anti-Semitic. That is why, with our second motion, we are calling for the European Parliament's resolution which, on the importance of a shared European memory, adopted last 19 September the resolution condemning all forms of totalitarianism and dictatorship, including the communist one. I would remind all my colleagues that this resolution was adopted by a very large majority by the Group of the European People's Party, but also by the European Socialist Party, with the support of the PD and those who were members of it before. This resolution condemns all the totalitarianism of the twentieth century, including Nazism and communism. We therefore ask this House to accept what has been decided by the European Parliament. For once we say this: Europe is asking us to do this. Regarding communist persecutions, there are countless; I just want to remind you of the persecution of 3 million Russian kulaki, sent to the gulags to be "reducated"; 10 million Ukrainians, killed out of hunger by the famine induced to educate small Ukrainian farmers to the new Marxist model; the slaughter of 22,000 Poles in 1940 in the Katyn forest and the killing of thousands of Hungarians of Soviet tanks in the 1956 revolt. Speaking of racism, I ask this House whether the Russian, Ukrainian, Polish and Hungarian deaths have a lower value than the Italian, French or German deaths of that time. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You will have the opportunity to demonstrate how you feel about this by approving or rejecting the adoption of the European Parliament resolution condemning Nazism and Communism. The truth, however, is that the Commission we are debating today has only one purpose, which is the few final lines of the device. After very welcome premises - who does not want to counter phenomena of hatred, racism and intolerance? - we come to the last few lines, where the text reads: "The Commission can report to the press and Internet site operators cases of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism, incitement to hatred and violence (...) requiring the removal of its contents from the web." We will then have a committee of censors who, within the Senate, will determine what can be said, who can say it and where can say it. If one cannot say anything, the letter will be sent from the Senate of the Italian Republic to Facebook asking for the removal of the page of Brothers of Italy, because the Commission has decided that they are hateful words. Are we overreacting? It is enough to see what are the hateful words contained in the Commission's proposal and which are also mentioned today by those who have preceded me. The term "nationalism" is inserted among the words of hatred. Now, I don't know when nationalism is a word of hatred; I call myself a patriot, who is not very distant as a nationalist, but from tomorrow you can censor me because I am a nationalist. Then ethnocentrism is: in this case too, compatible immigration, of which we always speak, becomes a crime; we have discovered that it is a crime to speak of ethnic substitution, yet the data of the Ministry of the Interior say that in recent years 600,000 illegals, mainly African, Pakistani and Bengali, have entered Italy, and have gone away 500,000 mainly young Italians. It is an ethnic substitution, but we cannot say it, because it is forbidden. The words of hatred have been classified as those of the Meloni, when he said that we will defend God, homeland and family. They have been classified as hateful words: participating in the convention of the Verona family, being opposed to gay adoptions and the uterus for rent, campaigns to raise awareness against abortion. ( [[The microphone flashes]] ). Mr. President, I'm about to finish. Give me 30 more seconds. In essence, the Commission, which we are going to set up today, will draw up a list of prohibited words. Among them, many are the words of the patriots and the sovereignists, as Senator Bressa said earlier, who stated that among the words of hatred there are those of the sovereignists. It becomes a bit worrying that this Assembly says that tomorrow Brothers of Italy will be censored because it is considered nationalist and sovereignist. It has always been a temptation of the left to censor the political opponent, but I am amazed by the Movimento 5 Stars, which has always made freedom of speech on the Net a battle horse and today bends to censorship in all its forms, even on the Net. It is very sorry that a Commission such as that of combating anti-Semitism, which could have been important and noble, has been bent on biech political calculations and the will to... Senator Secret, I'm not addressing you, really, I know it wasn't your will. The final result, by the second signatory...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u108	Excuse me, Senator, but I have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u109	FAZZOLARI (FdI). That's right, ma'am. I'll finish with the explanation of vote. Brothers of Italy asks to accept the two motions she has tabled on the contrast to Islamic fundamentalism and to accept the European Parliament's resolution, and she is willing to vote in favour of the Commission if the last five lines are removed, namely those which, at the end of a long discourse that can be shared, introduce Parliament's right of censure towards those who want to continue to be a free man and woman. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u110	We welcome and greet the delegation of the Republic of Kazakhstan who attends our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u113	FADELI (PD). Mr President, before I come to the substance, since it is the first signatory to the motion we are debating today, I would first of all like to express deep dismay and a very harsh condemnation of the unqualified insults of which, as you yourself have said, Senator Liliana Segre is a daily recipient. I want to associate myself, also on behalf of the whole Democratic Party, with the certificates of solidarity with an extraordinary woman, living witness of the horror of the Shoah, who put her life at the service of memory and therefore of the positive future of the country, that is, of all of us. Thank you, Senator. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and FI-BP groups.]] The hatred of those still tattooed on the skin the infamy of Auschwitz is an insult not only to the person, but to our own democracy, to the values on which it is founded. It is the rejection of anti-Semitism, violence, stereotypes, discrimination of all kinds that is based on our civil and democratic coexistence. We must reiterate this forcefully. The insults against Liliana Segre represent everything we must fight against (ignorance, indifference, hatred), so we must fight against it and never be indifferent, in no minute. Personally, I am very honoured to have the opportunity to sit in this House together with Liliana Segre. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] and to be able to look to the future by being able to rely on his humanity, on his spirit of mind, on his determination and on the ability to look far away that comes from an extraordinary and particularly challenging life. When you are lucky enough to be able to listen to those who have witnessed such dramatic and decisive historical and political moments for Italy that we are and that we want to continue to be, you can only stay focused, admired, learn, share and respect it always. Coming to the vote, setting up an extraordinary Commission to combat intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence is not a choice that we can take in a distracted, formal or divisive way. Those we live in are complex times of profound and continuous transformation, in which we have lost security, habits, roots, bonds of representation and trust that for so long have characterized political confrontation, public debate, the lives of our national community and our territorial communities. It seems that the identity that made us recognize as a country among ourselves and towards the rest of the world is being lost. Welcoming, generosity, altruism, solidarity, inclusion, respect and value of differences, human warmth and empathy are values written in our history and everyday life and contribute to generating the affection and esteem that the whole world addresses to us and are well written in the Constitution in a clear, unequivocal and indispensable way. Yet the reasons that motivate the vote in favour of the establishment of this extraordinary Commission by the whole Democratic Party Group are alive more than ever, in the face of the dangerous slippages of the banks that Italian society had struggled to build against the degeneration of language, confrontation and democratic foundations. Unfortunately, for some years we have been wrapped up, like many other democracies, in a spiral of dissatisfaction, anger and hatred that affects social relations, affective relationships, the world of work, political choices. Racist attitudes and behavior spread in a disturbing and insidious way because they are capable of touching very different social groups. Think in this field also of the phenomenon of bullying by children and sometimes parents: it pollutes the spirit of knowledge sharing, which is the natural air of the school, and cyberbullying has further broken limits and embankments. And the kids bring in the school exactly what they live and what adults transmit, so there's our responsibility. Social media have become the ventilator that we all see every moment, powered by news and professionals who make aggressive the usual tone of voice. Violence - I am thinking in particular of that towards women, who suffer the most - has become a relational key with which to resolve the complexity of relations in a society that changes with a speed that we had never observed. It attacks, strikes, humiliates itself and kills itself finally, in order not to be able to listen, recognize, respect and share the reasons of the other. There is no doubt, therefore, that we need to react, monitor, deepen and direct and stimulate change, including in relation to international conventions and agreements, all tasks that the extraordinary Commission will be able to and will be able to carry out. I also believe - and I would like to mention this - that it is useful to take legal action in terms of responsibilities, obligations and sanctions. In this regard, I would like to recall a bill against the hate speech which we presented as a Democratic Party last August and on which I draw everyone' s attention. It is a bill that constitutes the incitement to hatred on the web as a new crime and defines a more stringent framework of responsibility, prevention, protection and sanctions against platform managers, knowing well - I want to say this in this House because sometimes I listen to things that, from my point of view, are improper - that it is the law that defines the merit of what should be sanctioned, knowing that for all of us Article 21 of the Constitution, as well as Article 3, are and must remain the point of balance to maintain because this is the founding culture of our Constitution, which absolutely must remain the lighthouse. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] I therefore repeat my Group's support for the Commission's motion, at the first signature of Senator Segre, and I hope that this will be the practical start of a fruitful process of political and legislative action. I have said this many times, you know, but I repeat this again today: I believe that politics has a huge responsibility for the situation we are in. In more than seventy years of republican life, of experiences matured and acted in accordance with constitutional dictates, we have gone through more than an opportunity of harsh social conflict, of struggle degenerated into violence, of attack on the State and to those who represent its values and principles indispensable. Never before, however, has politics been crushed on the bad example, with violent languages, aggression, insult and ridicule in public in a game of ostentatiousness to those who are more bully in which everything is worth, in which the search for the premier passes over others, not fearing to destroy them physically or verbally, if this can bring crumbs of consensus that, in turn, feed a sense of omnipotence in a dramatic vicious circle. Let us interrupt this vicious circle; let us all honor together the presence among us of Liliana Segre. Let us try, for once, to set a good example together. That is why I call once again for this House to find a single point of synthesis at the end of the explanations of vote. Colleagues, it is up to us to give the first sign of change; we must extinguish the fire of hatred and practice the ability to look at ourselves and to dialogue among ourselves, although we know that we have so many differences, but the differences, if they are mutual respect, are a value that we must all adhere to. That is why I hope to be able to see, at the end, a unanimous vote in this House on the motion tabled by Mr Liliana Segre. I close, Mr President, with a phrase by Liliana Segre, that I would like to hear all the adults, but also the girls and the boys: Having experienced the results of hatred, having seen faces and behaviors, I could never instigate hatred. For these reasons, Senator Segre, I am convinced that this Commission will have a fundamental importance in educating and changing things. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Secret Senator Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u116	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution states in Article 2: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. In Article 3, it is laid down that: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. Over the last decade, the Italian legislator has intervened on several fronts aimed at fighting and defeating the repression of minorities and against gender violence, promoting the protection of minorities. As far as ethnic minorities are concerned, in 2016 the legislator intervened by inserting paragraph 3-a in Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975, in order to introduce the special effect of negationism (denial of the Shoah and genocide in general). The legislator also intervened to protect the weakest by law 15 October 2013, n. 119 and against cyberbullying in 2017, as well as - in 2019 - with the novelties of the red code against violence against women. At the level of national legislation, any incitement to the commission of offences is already punishable as a general rule and not only as a special rule. In particular, incitement to criminals is described as the behaviour of those who instigate to commit one or more criminal offences. The apology of crime is not defined in a specific way; the code is limited to punishing those who publicly make the apology of one or more crimes. Moreover, the Italian Constitution explicitly prohibits the reorganization, in any form, of the Fascist party. In order to strengthen this prediction, in order to prevent it from being easily bypassed, the legislator also thought of punishing those who are active in order to set up organizations that are inspired by the fascist principles, as well as all those behaviors that exalt the ideology of the 20 years. In practice, the legal order prohibits the apology of fascism. In summary, the internal legislation, starting from the Constitution, offers us a wide spectrum for the guarantees of minorities, branching out with rules found in the penal code and, finally, descending into the detail of the special laws, even of the last generation. In analyzing the most serious phenomena of intolerance towards minorities and the apology conducts of racial and anti-Semitic laws, we see that the same have occurred in a particular way in Germany, France and Belgium. It is essential that in Italy, too, any phenomenon of anti-Semitism be firmly monitored and condemned within groups or carried out by individuals and, in general, condemned all behaviors of intolerance and incitement to hatred and violence. Together with the vigilance on the possible occurrence of these phenomena, however, we must also combat those conditions in which a struggle between the poor occurs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is therefore necessary to provide for measures for important support for the policies of the social state, accompanied by a management of migration flows compatible with our economic fabric. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In conclusion, we already have the instruments to suppress any conduct described above, simply by applying what is provided for by our laws and contained in our Constitution and in Community and conventional legislation. We welcome the establishment of a Commission to address these issues and to support them. However, approving the establishment of a Commission as requested in the first-signed motion by Senator Segre would risk, on the one hand, superimposing itself to existing bodies (with a hypothetical fragmentation and reliance on responsibility) and, on the other hand, being used in an instrumental way to deal with certain issues. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, this Commission would risk being biased, as it would not address the monitoring of the phenomenon of Christianphobia in a timely manner. On this subject, the data from 2019 show that the trend is increasing, with 245,000 people persecuted and over 4,000 killed for their faith. You see, colleagues, the contrast to these crimes is not achieved by eliminating the crucifix from the schools: we are not hiding behind the secularity of our State to justify this act, which leads exclusively to erase who we are. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] Dear Minister Fioramonti, if we are in a secular state today, if we women are in this House today, if I can not cover my hair or my face and if we are talking about protecting minorities and combating acts of discrimination, we can do so precisely because of what the crucifix represents. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Tiraboschi.]] In conclusion, not wanting to find those points of sharing in order to deliver the Commission with the consent of all political forces was a missed opportunity. And congratulations to Mr Faraone once again, because we have all understood from what he has said in this House how the Commission is to be used - at least on his side - as it should be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] Without taking away anything from Senator Segre, who is all my admiration and solidarity, under these conditions and under these conditions, the Lega Group will abstain from voting on the establishment of this Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u119	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the need to combat the incitement to hatred and the phenomena that incite violence is certainly an instance not only that we share, but that is the basis of our political commitment. We are for freedom of expression and, as a result, my freedom of expression requires me to tolerate that of others. Another thing is to commit crimes, such as instigating acts of violence or spreading false news in order to make a person or a group of people look bad. We have rightly focused on this point with due attention and solidarity, which we reiterate to Senator Segre, who has recently been attacked through social media: we know what she had to go through in her childhood and above all we know what millions of other people, Jews like her, but not only, have suffered in the 1930s and 1940s, during the Shoah. Anti-Semitism is perhaps the most symbolically evident aspect of the severity of intolerance, but today's is not the same as eighty years ago: things have changed and unfortunately in recent years there has also been a revival of these phenomena. All the statistics tell us: in France the relative episodes have gone from 311 to 541 in the last year; in Germany from 1,504 to 1,646; also in Italy there had been 16 episodes of anti-Semitism in 2012 and it has reached 48 in the following year and 181 in 2018. In Germany, as I said, there has been a change from 1,504 to 1,646 episodes in a year, including violent acts against people ranging from 37 to 62. In addition to the phenomenon carried out by right-wing extremists - in other words Nazis - but not only, an investigation by the University of Bielefeld in Germany, where there was the largest number of acts, tells us that 65 percent of anti-Semitism acts and more than 80 percent of those of aggressive anti-Semitism with violence on people were carried out by Islamic extremists. It is no longer the same thing as eighty years ago: it is neither more nor less serious, it is the same but we cannot think that the phenomenon is still the same as eighty years ago. We are against any incitement to violence and, sometimes, a certain violent way of doing politics also leads to serious consequences. I remember the episode of April 2013, when one person, an Italian, shot in front of Palazzo Chigi injuring four carabinieri. One of these carabinieri, the brigadier Giangrande, was forever deprived of the use of arms and legs. To him goes all our thought and our gratitude. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Well, the criminal, immediately captured, justified himself by saying that he wanted to strike a politician, one by chance being close to the House, but usually, politicians do not dress in the uniform of the carabinieri. Even more serious, this gentleman thought this was a good excuse. He reasoned: I shot, I destroyed people's lives, but I thought he was a politician. Here, a certain way of doing political propaganda also has these consequences. We are certainly in favour of studying ways to combat these phenomena. We are also concerned by certain judgments that have been pronounced, where, in some way, insults, even specific accusations, are getting rid of, with the attribution of specific facts, because they are made on social media. I am not referring here to the question of Fedez and Chiara Ferragni, who have been accused with normal insults, even if they are always negative. I am referring to the case of that girl, to whom particular facts have been attributed (that she was a psycholable, that her father beat her etc.) and who filed a complaint. Well, Rome's attorney has arranged to dismiss it, saying that social media writes things to vent and, therefore, does not cause any damage. Instead, more damage is done than through defamation on a daily or weekly, because at least there can be denial. How do you deny a widespread statement through Facebook and then "exploded" and read by millions of users, who do not know what happens? So, even on this point, we need attention. We would have liked to have voted on a joint motion and we have made that clear. Unfortunately, since this proposal came from Senator Ferrari, there has been immediately the preliminary opposition of Senator Faraone, President of the Italia Viva Group, who then, not happy with this, gave us a little essay of what they mean hate speech and also fake news. He said that Forza Italia changed his motion following the results of the elections. Yes, it is true, we have made some changes, adding some lines, which absolutely do not change the approach of our motion. They are simply additions, because we have collected, as colleagues, the request to specify certain points. So this is a fake news. It is through what he said, by practically passing as negationists those who do not bow to his impositions, Senator Pharaoh instead gave an example of what a discourse of hatred is. Fortunately, no one will listen to him and therefore this will have no consequences. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] But that is not the way to do it. This is the way to trigger a spiral of hatred. We do not appreciate some passages in the majority motion. While reaffirming our esteem and agreement with the intention of Senator Segre on the spirit of this Commission, there are, however, some passages that we do not appreciate. I quote two of them, so as not to remain in general: when, among the phenomena to be fought, aggressive nationalism is also included (and then it is a whole thing to see what aggressive nationalism is), but, above all, when we quote positively a document where it is said that harmful, offensive or unwelcome expressions should be pursued criminally. Here we have a phenomenon that we have already seen and that is not academy. In fact, there are cases, abroad above all, where a group can be considered offended by some behavior of others even not detrimental to their dignity. But when someone else simply affirms their identity, he affirms their faith, when he perhaps expresses a judgment in which he argues that Western society, based on the rule of law, on the equality of man and woman, on religious freedom, is better than society based on the imposition of a religion, on beheadings, on discrimination of women, I believe that this can be said and that we should say it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] A distorted interpretation of the hate speech, however, could lead to the belief that that is propaganda of the superiority of a certain society (which can then be passed by ethnicity). On the other hand, we believe that the need for freedom is greater. So, as Senator Modena said in general debate: yes to combating hate speech, no to restrict freedom of expression, when of course it does not go beyond the limits that the law imposes. Senator Binetti recalled that only by overcoming those barriers of hatred can we have an orderly society. I conclude by quoting one case: Nelson Mandela, in South Africa, has suffered decades of imprisonment in very harsh prisons and has peacefully promoted a passage of powers and an evolution of the Government with everyone's access to the offices and the electorate. He could have spread hatred first. When, on the other hand, hatred and violence are used at least verbally - from which physical violence can be derived - when there are premises that have nothing to do with what Nelson Mandela has suffered, perhaps we should ask ourselves some questions about his behavior. We are for freedom and we are against the incitement to violence for which we will vote in favour of our motions and we will abstain, for those expressions I have mentioned, on the motion of the majority that will be adopted, but we will participate with great commitment and attention to the work of the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u120	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Istituto complesso (Polo 1) of Galatina, in the province of Lecce, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u123	MARILOTTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Segre, language is a powerful tool. Words can be windows that open to the world or barriers that build walls and repel. Incitement to hatred must be understood as an understanding of all forms of expression that spread, incite, promote or justify xenophobia, hatred against the most vulnerable people in society or other forms of aversion generated by suffering and contempt for the different. Today's society has seen an increase in episodes of intolerance, marginalization and hatred and we witness an embarrassment of language, a shift towards attitudes that undermine the foundations of civil coexistence. (17.38) (Follows MARILOTTI). The victims of this gradual regression are above all religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities, the weakest and most fragile people in society. We read in the newspapers episodes of anti-Semitism and extremist demonstrations in which there is no shame in showing symbols and emblems that refer to ideologies that we thought have now been overcome by history, ideologies that have dragged the peoples of Europe into the tragedy of the Second World War, causing disasters, persecutions and horrors of which our cities, communities and survivors still carry material and moral scars. The proliferation of hate speech poses a number of new challenges to counter it. The hate speech online is not intrinsically different from the similar offline expressions, even if some nodes and specific features are found more in the web such as the extreme diffusion and permanence on the Net of denigratory words and images, the ease of sharing and transnationality that makes it harder and longer an effective judicial response. The Internet has facilitated the communication and circulation of news but has also sometimes amplified the spread of words, images, gestures and behaviors detrimental to the dignity of people and groups. We're talking about acts that have social consequences. Here we are not talking about the feeling of hatred understood as a vital component of the human spirit, the elegiac distico "Odi et amo" of the poet Catullo, one of the most widespread of world literature is out of the question; as well as the cosmology of the Agrigento philosopher Empedocle, for whom hatred and love are the very principles that move the world. On this issue at all times there has been wealth of philosophical debate. If for Aristotle the organized community was born by the natural inclination of man to sociality, for Thomas Hobbes it is a selfish push, homo homini lupus, to demand a state founded on law. Among the masters of suspicion, we find Schopenhauer, who in a famous aphorism states that man is the only living being of the earth who enjoys the misfortunes of his fellow [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; or Nietzsche, who, in the genealogy of morality, affirms that seemingly the most disinterested impulses and feelings conceal, in truth, negative and selfish impulses. To get to Freud, who defines Eros and Thanatos as the two vital impulses of the human psyche. Hate, therefore, is part of human nature and cannot be completely eradicated, whether it be class hatred or social envy or atavistic grudges. We are not for a unique and homologating thought, we are for a free expression of thoughts and feelings, if these do not harm the freedom of others. In an attempt to eradicate evil from the world, Hegel, in the Fenomenology of the Spirit, makes the beginning of the history of human civilization coincide with a dialectical contrast between self-consciousness, the spring, the start up - we would say today - is the desire. It is not a material desire such as food or wealth, but moral: the individual's desire to be recognized by others as a person. I believe that this lesson is still up to date, all human beings have this need, not only material needs and life, but to affirm their own personality and no one must be allowed to deny this sacred aspiration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To do this we must build cultural and educational paths aimed at a social pedagogy, which makes the individual aware of the consequences of his actions towards the other, be it a nation, an ethnicity, a religion, a category of individuals or individuals. Think only of the spread among young people of certain languages and ascribable behaviors in the formula of cyberbullying, but also of other violent forms of isolation and exclusion of children or children by peers who in extreme cases led young people to suicide. Such attitudes are not always of criminal importance, but can constitute a danger, a threat to civil coexistence. But it's not just the Net. The Agcom authority condemned the worrying increase in television broadcasting of the use of expressions of discrimination against categories or groups of persons because of their particular economic and social status, ethnicity, sexual orientation or religious belief. Already in 2014, the national campaign "No hate speech" was launched, with the broadcast, also on Rai's networks, of television and radio commercials that fit into the international project of the same name, promoted by the Council of Europe as a form of protection of human rights in the face of phenomena of hatred and intolerance. Even a group of publishers recently promoted the campaign "Even words can kill "to indicate the danger of violent and offensive language. Despite these efforts, the phenomenon is unfortunately still growing. It is a challenge of our education system. We must have the courage to invest resources so that our children and our children learn to regulate their natural impulses in a welcoming environment, able to offer stimuli, that induce them to live the values of coexistence, seen not as flattening or renouncing their own values of reference, but as enrichment in the encounter with the other and with diversity. I believe that Parliament must deal with these issues. For this reason, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare the strong vote in favour of the majority motion for the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u124	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 136 tabled by Senator Segre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live, prolonged applause.]] I call on Senator Salvini and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 176. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 177 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 181, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 182, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u127	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I shall take little time to report to my colleagues and to you personally - to whom I will also ask for direct action if possible - two facts which I consider to be serious in terms of parliamentary and political correctness. The first fact is the following. Yesterday, during the debate on the timetable for plenary work, Mr Romeo replied to a fair objection from Senator Pharaoh, in my view, by supporting (I quote the shorthand report): We have never received requests from the Senate, from the Democratic Party Group or from other groups, for Salvini to report to the Chamber (on Moscopoli). Those who know me know that I hate polemics and I do not want to do so on this occasion either, but when I hear these words I have been deeply offended and I would like to remind you that I asked Mr Salvini then to come and report to the House on the facts which are known journalistically under the name of 'Moscopoli', through five parliamentary questions. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups]] , two of which were presented on 17 July, two on 24 July and one on 13 August. The questions would have been seven if two had not been inopportunely blocked by the presidency of the Senate, which considered them inadmissible and prevented their publication. In addition to the questions, two requests to the then Minister Salvini to report to the House on the Moscopoli affair were made by Mr Alan Ferrari in speeches made in the Assembly on 11 and 16 July. Since this affair has had serious implications for foreign policy, national and political security, I do not think it is acceptable that the truth of the facts should be violated in the Senate House in such a clear and spotted manner, as was done yesterday by Mr Romeo. However, I would like to add a comment on an even more serious issue concerning this subject: on 16 July, at my first signature, a draft law was deposited to propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on Moscopoli. The merit of this proposal can be thought of what you want, but when I discovered last week that, three months after the filing of the bill at my first signature, the same had not yet been published, I found myself faced with a fact that I believe is unprecedented in our parliamentary history. I repeat: for more than three months, a bill deposited on such a burning subject has been blocked by the Senate Presidency and not published. If it is not published it means that this bill for Italian citizens does not exist, it is not visible on the site, it is not known that the initiative has been taken. On October 25 we wrote....
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u128	Senator Parrini, this is a session-end surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u129	Mr Parrini (PD). It's an intervention on something very serious, I don't know if you're present. I ask you to find out urgently why a fact of this gravity has taken place, because I have been filing the bill for three months, which is blocked without any explanation. Last Friday we wrote a formal letter to the President, but he did not reply. I would have liked to ask President Alberti Casellati directly this morning, but he did not give me the floor. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u130	My hope, Senator Parrini, is that the President will give an answer to his epistle.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u131	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1140. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u132	Mr President, the Agreement for cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mozambique was made in July 2017 and provides for the establishment of chairs and mutual collaboration between the parties for artistic reasons, and between the libraries and museums of the two countries. That's five articles. The expenditure amounts are EUR 200,000 for 2019, EUR 193,000 for 2020 and EUR 200,000 for 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u133	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u136	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, on this draft law, as on subsequent draft ratification laws, we are announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour, since these agreements range from cultural and scientific cooperation to customs assistance, to energy. These are all agreements that have long been waiting for ratification. I think it is appropriate to ensure that they can be ratified quickly so that they can be implemented. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u137	Thank you, Senator Alfieri. I hope it is a stimulus and an example for others.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u140	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u143	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I too welcome the stimulus and declare the support of the Forza Italia Group on all ratifications of cultural, scientific and technological cooperation agreements. I would ask that the full text of my explanation of vote be handed over to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u144	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u145	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1141. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement signed in February 2017 between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part. This agreement, the result of a negotiation process lasting almost four years, aims to establish a partnership to strengthen the political dialogue between the European Union and Afghanistan, to improve relations between the parties and to develop bilateral cooperation in a wide range of areas, including security, sustainable development and trade, including in order to promote multilateral cooperation and to encourage the integration of the Asian country into the international economic system. The text, which also aims to promote and support democratic principles of human rights, the rule of law and peace, also provides for cooperation between the parties in the fight against terrorism, corruption, money laundering, organised crime and drug trafficking, as well as in the management of migration. Coming to the bill of ratification, it consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the implementation of the law of ratification must not result in new or greater burdens on public finances. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with European law and other rules of international law to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u147	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u150	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, Italy Viva-PSI, I am voting in favour not only of this measure but also of the ratifications that will follow. They are all fairly old ratifications and extremely appropriate precisely because they touch on a number of aspects relating both to cooperation in the cultural field and to the forms of extension of agreements in the field of defence and justice. That is why I repeat our Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u153	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask that the written text of my explanation of vote be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u156	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of the ratification measure for our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u157	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u158	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1263, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u159	Mr President, I would like to highlight some aspects of the ratification under consideration. The Agreement aims to increase bilateral cooperation between the Italian and Serbian Armed Forces, as already done with the Republic of Montenegro. It fills a legal gap since, since 2003, our country has had such an agreement with the Union of Serbia and Montenegro. Therefore, they are also called upon to proceed with Belgrade with what we have done with Podgorica. I call on the House to vote in favour of this ratification and on the Presidency to give the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u160	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u163	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group to which I belong, and I would ask that the text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u166	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u167	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u168	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1361, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u169	Mr President, it is a question of examining the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed in December 2015, and the related Protocol on mutual administrative assistance in the customs field. This Agreement, the result of a negotiation process lasting more than three years and intended to replace a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Asian country dating back to 1995, aims to define the legal and political-institutional framework for cooperation between the parties in a number of areas such as regional security, the rule of law, education, trade, investment, energy and transport, but also the environment and water management, with a view to partnerships involving their civil societies. The text, which consists of 287 articles, divided into nine titles, is part of the European Strategy for Central Asia, which covers several countries, aimed at the political and economic strengthening of the Union in the region. The Agreement, based primarily on respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, commits the parties to the realization of the principles of the market economy as a prerequisite for promoting sustainable development and to contributing to peace, stability and economic development at regional and international level. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u170	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u173	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask that the written text of my explanation of vote be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u176	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we are voting in favour of this measure, which we are about to give to the friends of the Kazakh delegation in the Senate today.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u177	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u178	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1142. The acting rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u179	Mr President, I shall confine myself to making brief notes. The Cultural, Scientific and Technological Cooperation Agreement under consideration is intended to provide a legal framework for deepening and regulating bilateral relations in the fields of culture, research and technology. It renews the last agreement on these areas, which dates back to 1960, when the Cultural Cooperation Agreement between Italy and the Soviet Union was signed. With this Agreement we improve knowledge and understanding between the two peoples; we promote their respective cultural heritage through the exchange of experiences and, above all, on an equal basis and reciprocity, while at the same time providing an effective response to the strong demand for Italian culture and language in Kyrgyzstan.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u180	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u183	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to turn over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to point out that ratification of this kind also reveals the demand for and demand for Italian in the world, given that even in the Republic of Kyrgyzstan it emerges that the need for and demand for the teaching of our language is of their importance, their size. I would like to point out this because, even in the context of the examination of the draft budget, we must bear in mind the patrimony of teaching Italian language and culture and, therefore, the need for resources and a whole series of measures to be taken. I think - for example - that the prediction of role-playing staff who can promote our Italian culture in the world can also find room in this House through an instrument such as the ratification of an agreement such as this one.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u186	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u189	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, what we are going to update is an agreement dating back to 1960 and, consequently, obsolete. One of the principles on which it is based is mutual respect and, therefore, cooperation on an equal basis and respectful of the differences between our peoples and our political systems. With today's approval we will allow us to continue and start even closer relations in the university field, with the funding of scholarships and joint research, but above all we will give the possibility to start Italian language courses. It therefore seems to me that this agreement goes in the direction that this majority wants to strengthen, that is, the enhancement of our culture, our cultural institutions, our know-how in the field of science and technology. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u190	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u191	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1143. The acting rapporteur, Mr Petrocelli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u192	, f. f. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of bodies that deal with energy at international level, which are understood from the point of view of both renewable and traditional sources. The special feature of the International Energy Forum (IEF) is that it is a body in which 72 States currently participate, including the United States and China, and a global platform for dialogue and comparison focused on mainly traditional energy resources. Compared to other international bodies in the field of energy, it has its own specificity that I want to emphasize and that consists in the universal and neutral vocation, with the accession of all the major countries of the international community on an equal basis, to help give stability to the markets and certainty of investments in the major energy production projects, but also infrastructure. In particular, I would like to stress that the participation in the International Energy Forum by the energy consumers and importers is important for the investments and collaborations that the Forum itself allows, with obvious advantages in terms of economies of scale, exchanges of information and reduction of supply risks. For all these reasons, I propose to the Assembly that the draft law be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u193	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u196	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, by announcing my Group's vote in favour, I would ask that I be able to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u199	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to strengthen what Mr Petrocelli has already said in his report. We have interpreted the Agreement in a very effective and functional way, which is also a kind of novelty with regard to the international context. We therefore welcome it very much, and for this reason I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u202	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, since almost nine years have passed since the extraordinary ministerial conference in Riad on 22 February 2011, Italy, together with 84 other countries, adopted the charter establishing the International Energy Forum, with the aim of establishing a permanent dialogue between the producing countries and the energy-consumer countries in the recognition of the interdependences that bind their economies, this global platform is fundamental and, above all, it is focused on traditional energy resources, such as oil. The purpose and mutual interest of the parties to the Agreement is to contribute to the price stability of these commodities, which may also result in greater certainty of investment in the sector. We know that today oil is one of the so-called exogenous variables of the growth of the economy, not so much because it is used for energy production, but for other uses, including automotive. We remember, however, how much the volatility of its price on the markets has weighed in recent years, despite the desire to go towards a world less subject to fossil fuels. This will, however, has to deal with the numbers, which still dominate the world's production of coal energy (38 percent of the total) and natural gas (23 percent). The Forum has shared objectives, such as to form a shared basis of knowledge and interests; to promote stability and transparency in energy markets for economic development, including with a view to the sustainability of the energy market. Italy, as a consumer country and importer of oil and gas, has therefore full and active interest in participating in the Forum. I would remind you that already in the last parliamentary term our Group had voted in favour of a draft law which contained several agreements, including the one at our examination, which was not finally ratified before the end of the parliamentary term. For these reasons, therefore, I repeat the vote in favour of the ratification of Forza Italia and I ask that I be able to attach the text of my speech. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u203	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u204	Colleagues, nine requests for intervention have been made: we cannot do a further sitting just for the speeches at the end of the sitting. Having approved six ratifications of international agreements in a quarter of an hour, I find it impossible to use three quarters of an hour for the speeches at the end of the sitting. So, although at 7 pm there is the Napoli-Atalanta game, we will have all the interventions, but for no more than two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u207	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I wish to express my solidarity and closeness to the workers of the FCA in Melfi and the induced one, who for some months have been victims of solidarity contracts, or are forced to leave because of an excess of staff and compulsory individual and collective stops, partly due to the change of production and, in part, to the lack of orders. These mandatory stops involve an average cut of about 350 euros gross per month, plus the loss due to individual stops. Unfortunately this happens after Melfi's FCA has invested more than a billion in the last year and despite the existence of an industrial plan - I am referring to the one for the years 2019 to 2021 - which provides an investment of 5 billion euros destined to the FCA of Melfi (in part to the Jeep Compass and in part to the Jeep Renegade Hybrid). Unfortunately, the recovery is expected for 2020, with a first step in March and a second step in June 2020. In the meantime, it is the workers who pay today, with this substantial loss that will increase until the end of the year, when the percentage of solidarity contracts will reach as much as 60% (from 48 to 60 percent in fact). Mr President, what do I ask? As industrial production and the dignity of workers can and must go hand in hand, I ask that the FCA implement the investments mentioned and that the Government not be content to make summits, but give concrete help to the car sector and, above all, to the hybrid sector. Otherwise, the recovery of next year will produce cars, but it will not sell them and we will then again find ourselves in the same difficulty that will be thrown all over the shoulders and the future of the workers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u210	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, at 7.40 a.m. this morning, the community and the institutions met in Piazza San Benedetto, Norcia, to commemorate the serious earthquake of that terrible 30 October 2016: a shock of magnitude 6,5, violent, the strongest in Italy since 1980. The land and roads were opened, houses, bell towers and city walls collapsed. He collapsed the basilica of San Benedetto and famous places of Italy were wounded. Castelluccio di Norcia was razed to the ground and wounded the Colle dell'Infinito di Recanati, the herm of the idyll of Leopardi. The memory goes also to the more than 300 victims of the first shock - that of 24 August - and to the thousands of displaced people who continue to witness a continuous devastation in a fragile territory, but inhabited by strong and strong populations, who have not given up and whose look still goes to the red zone, to what remains of their homes and activities, often never abandoned, even in the most difficult moments of the cold and long winter. I am talking about workers, small farmers, who have chosen not to abandon a heritage of history and generations. Mr President, today the fight is against no longer the earthquake, but the bureaucracy that slows down the reconstruction and use of the funds allocated, which have been used with difficulty. We're talking about rubble and ruins to tear down, and then rebuild. For this reason, and in order to prevent depopulation, so much hope is placed in the new so-called earthquake decree, launched on 21 October last by the Government, for the extension of a series of measures including the state of emergency. It is necessary to rethink the rules, but also the system of governance of reconstruction between widespread competences, special offices, municipalities and other levels. It is our task to avoid the risk that even the few left to guard the life of those places lose hope of rebirth and regeneration. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u213	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am speaking on the subject dealt with by Senator Ginetti. I was present this morning at the commemoration ceremony three years after the earthquake shock. Unfortunately, in some respects it seems yesterday, because some of the problems have not yet been resolved. But, as our colleague, Senator Donatella Tesei, has pointed out, who deliberately chose today's day as the first official departure from the President of the Region, this is the moment of unity that - as he recalled this morning - must lead not only to the reconstruction of the stones, but also to find that spirit of community that has risked losing itself in recent years. As a League, we will then continue to be not only physically present, but also close in the acts to those populations. Just as it has been done in these fourteen months every time it has been possible, in every measure, even in the face of what my colleague Ginetti recalled earlier, we will not fail to contribute to solving the problems, because the unity of the country comes before the political divisions and colors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u216	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the seismic swarm that hit central Italy in 2016 was called Amatrice, Norcia and Visso. As mayor of Visso I think I've lived like very few others, not only in here, but probably in the entire area concerned. I remember that in my municipality, already after the shock of August 24, we had found 250 inagibility, including the municipal seat. Our history, however, had taught us how to handle this situation and, for this reason, the mind went straight to reconstruction. I remember the meetings with the then president of the Council Matteo Renzi and the then extraordinary commissioner of the Government for reconstruction, colleague Errani, aimed precisely at speeding up the times of reconstruction. I recall the proposals I had made in this regard, to recover Law No 61 of 1998, which had led to one of the best reconstructions in Italy. Unfortunately, however, those two months were not enough, because then on 26 and then on 30 October we were struck by two of the most destructive shocks ever detected in the history of Italy. I remember the anguish of Sunday morning: I had never left those places and therefore, after that shock so destructive, there was the worry that, despite the evacuation of all the population and the prohibition that I had arranged to enter the houses, someone had still gone there, perhaps to try to recover some valuable goods or simply to take some clothes or kind of first necessity. It was made certain that even that time we had not been killed or injured, the emergency took up all our time. Now I do not want to blame the responsibilities of what will certainly be one of the worst reconstructions in Italy, if not the worst in absolute, nor do I want to reiterate what our colleague has already rightly said. However, I would like to express my wish: I know that it is in my prerogatives as a Member of Parliament to present an emergency management bill, but I also know, as a concrete person, that that bill, if it were not shared by all my colleagues, would remain a piece of paper, completely useless. So let's learn a lesson from what happened: we learn to manage emergencies during the time of peace, because in time of war you can only face the emergency. I hope that this message will be received by everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u219	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am speaking on the same subject, as I have been dealing with the issue of the earthquake in Central Italy since the shock of 24 August. Today is October 30th and three years have passed since the big one, which was 6.5 degrees of the Richter scale and was also remembered in a film by director Sandro Baldoni, imperishable memory. He did not die like that of 24 August, with 299 victims, but it created so much devastation, with the epicenter in Norcia and Preci, in the Umbria Region, widening to 140 the municipalities of the crater. With so much devastation, three years later, there is a risk of depopulation, but it is still seen in the faces of those men and women so much dignity. There's so much dignity. There is so much hope; a hope that has been strengthened even in recent days, when the court dropped the accusations of office abuse of Grandma Peppina's house. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] So, by dropping this charge, those for the other 1,300 people who built an equal house also fall. For the earthquake and for the reconstruction, of course, no decrees are needed like electoral ads, issued a few days after the elections, selling the smoke instead of the roast and questioning the stakeholders such as - for example - the professionals, on whom we fear will be discharged, a further responsibility. The League carried out for two years, when it was in the minority, a responsible action towards the earthquake communities. And he did it in 15 months, when he was in the government, and he's gonna take it back anyway, even in these months and in the future. For us, in fact, the objective is to meet the needs of the poor people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u222	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to recall the dramatic event that devastated the North-East a year ago and a very important part of the territories in which I live in the province of Belluno. The night of Vaia - so now it has entered the mind of those who, the terrible hurricane, lived it and of those who heard it tell - arrived between Sunday and Monday of October 28, 2018. Heavy winds and flood rains fall over the Alpine arch, almost irreversibly changing the Dolomite landscape. The gusts of sirocco go over 150 kilometers per hour and fold, without pity and with an incredible fury, entire woods, flood entire villages, annihilate roads, roofs and people's unbelieving souls. I still remember with particular emotion today the sense of impotence and loss that I felt in the following days the disaster, when I could go to Val Visende to see a forest now horizontal: a sense of loneliness, a dark silence, a look at the sky that had returned blue to catch breath and strength. Vaia was an experience that revealed to everyone the true nature of the people who live the mountain: silent people who rarely raise their voices, but who know how to unite in an extraordinary way, who do not lose courage and struggle to stay in difficult territories, sometimes hostile but of an unerrable beauty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here, a year after that night, I want first of all to remember here in the Senate the ordinary people who lived the drama and tried to bring back, step by step, with an incessant job, all to normality. And when I speak of ordinary people, I also refer to all volunteers (with capital V); to all those who have lent their time, their hearts to help and help themselves. In those tumultuous and difficult to manage days, the Veneto Region, with its equipment, has set in motion an unprecedented emergency car. I still remember the announcements and the continuous updates issued by Governor Luca Zaia, the Councillor Bottacin and the offices of Civil Protection. The State has also shown close proximity, with the immediate arrival of the Interior Minister Matteo Salvini and, a few days later, of the President of the Senate Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati; sleepless days, without truce, for nothing to jam and no one to remain behind or forgotten. During the three hundred and sixty-five days the guard never lowered: there was, in fact, a continuous race to raise funds to heal the damage, promoted by agencies, associations and whatever else. One year after the passage of Vaia, the Veneto Region has opened countless yards, for a total of 467,910 million euros. Commissioner Luca Zaia delegated the competences to 160 actuators, so as to strengthen autonomy and subsidiarity, distributing resources immediately to operate a winning model. The Vaia storm has been a hard test for everyone, but it has shown how difficult days can be faced and, thanks to intelligence, humanity and the heart that have always characterized the people of the high lands and all the Venetians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u225	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, the date of 30 October, as well as that of 24 August, is indelible for us who live in the territories of the seismic crater of 2016 and for all Italians, because the events so dramatic, the deaths of 24 August, the devastations of 26 of 30 October and then of January following saw a great emotional popular reaction and solidarity of all Italian citizens. I want to dedicate this intervention to our populations; to the resistance of these years; to those who have had to endure enormous difficulties; to the families that have been forced to divide and then, finally, they have been able to reunite; to those who do not want to abandon and will not abandon our Apennine mountain territories, which we cannot lose because they are vital not only for our affected regions but for our whole country. We should give and give services, we will defeat cynicism, the jackaling and the exploitations that have been too many in recent years, we will return to give the hospitals and schools that serve to grow the new generations; the work and the enterprises to make the territory again to be protagonist. It is the courage that makes the difference, as it has been in recent years and how it will be in the coming months. I truly address the greatest embrace to all of us in this vital and important challenge, on this day so symbolic for our Republic and for our entire country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u228	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak tonight from these benches, which are still those of popular representation, to give voice to the mayors of the small Italian municipalities and in particular to the mayors of Lombardy on the emergency that is affecting the proper functioning of their administrations, while waiting for the new Minister of the Interior to answer our question which has been lying for a long time. In the small municipalities of Lombardy and throughout Italy - in Veneto, in Sardinia, in Puglia - there is a persistent and serious shortage of municipal secretaries. The continuation of this situation could lead to the administrative paralysis of many administrations, because the one offered by the figure of the secretary is, in particular in smaller municipalities, an indispensable support to ensure legitimacy of the acts undertaken by the institutions. In the past Government the then Deputy Minister of Economics and Finance stated that some hypotheses were already on the table that also found the consent of the interested parties and on which, in any case, one could work for a sharing between all the institutional actors. ANCI and UPI have also represented the needs related to the deficiency of the agencies and, therefore, I would like it to remain in the acts, waiting for the response from the new Minister of the Interior, that the mayors are the first sentries of our territory and must be supported in any way possible. It is not enough to remember and repeat how good they are, how beautiful they are and how heroic they are: let us show them that we are able to put them in a position to work and administer. We can only remind you of this, because the ball of choices and decisions is in the hands of your government. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u229	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-160.ana.u230	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, October 31, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.39.
