ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1354, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that at yesterday's sitting Senator Bagnai reported on the work of the Commissions and the general discussion took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u5	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I will reply quickly to the many interesting comments made at yesterday's sitting. I begin my speech with a question of method: some criticisms have been made of the fact that this branch of Parliament has had little time and has not been able to intervene effectively on the measure under consideration. It must be said that the perfect bicameralism in recent years is going in this direction, so it is very often the case that one branch of Parliament deals with one measure and the other deals with another, so much so that the same observations have been made to the Chamber of Deputies in relation to the unblocking decree, which the Senate has in fact dealt with only. This was also exacerbated by the fact that the European elections were held in the middle. Beyond that, in any case, attempts have been made to follow the last stage with the greatest possible attention, in relation to the agendas, precisely to give the opportunity to intervene and to express itself on the most important issues. Coming to the merit of the decree-law under consideration, it may not seem, but a drawing behind it all is. As Senator Conzatti correctly said yesterday, if in the end the objective is to promote growth and GDP, it is only companies that make GDP, growth and jobs. And to help companies make GDP, growth and jobs, the levers are always the same. First of all, there is the reduction in taxation, which is essential at a time when we are moving towards a reduction in taxes at global level; therefore, everything that increases the costs for companies, at a time like this, is mortal. It is impossible to think of increasing the costs for companies at a stage like the present: indeed, we must do everything to reduce them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The second lever is simplification (this goes without saying) and, finally, investment. Let's try to get some order. Let's see if a little of this is in the set of the two decree-laws, because things must be seen together, there is no decree to itself: the whole must have a line, possibly coherent. Well, let's look at the data for investment. There are also private investments, but in the end who makes public investment spending in the country? Local and regional authorities do it. The mistake that has been made lately, in recent years, has been to think that centralizing investment spending led to an increase in investment spending; that is not the case. The data have certified that it is the exact opposite: the more you centralize the investment expenditure, the less investment expenditure you do. Let's think of a situation on all: the institutional chaos created with the intervention on the Provinces: we have completely blocked the investment expenditure on two fundamental assets such as provincial roads and high schools. Well, by making some small intervention, which continued in the growth decree, the situation is changing. The investment expenditure of the Regions has increased (in the first two months, +80 percent). Why? The simplest thing in the world has been done. In the budget law we made a switch between current expenditure and investment expenditure that is worth 2.5 billion euros over the three years. Hence, changing 2.5 billion from current expenditure to investment expenditure has greatly increased the investments of the Regions. It wasn't hard to understand, and it was done. The big one, however, the municipalities do it in the end. It is the municipalities that make the most investment spending. Here we have achieved two simple measures. The first was to simplify and remove some constraints, which unfortunately exist, on the investment capacity of local authorities. It has been done in the budget law, reviewing the thresholds of the procurement code a little bit; it has been done, much heavier, with the unblocking works and here we will see the effects in the months to come. The result, however, is already tangible: the investment expenditure of the municipalities has increased considerably. This means filling the country with those famous orange vests that we want. We do not want yellow vests, we have already said so and we repeat it: we want to fill the country with orange vests, workers, people who work. Besides, let's remember that asphalts don't matter. Therefore, any work done, whether small or large, by the municipalities, represents jobs and domestic demand. It's all about growth. From this point of view, a fund has also been set up for the small works of the small municipalities, those that over the years have suffered the most from the decrease in investment expenditure. It was done earlier. These 450 million euros have literally been burned, because there was a simple and unique bond there: if you don't spend them, give them back to me and give them to the Municipality side by side. Result: all spent. In the growth decree we doubled this budget. You get almost a billion euros. But the other important point is that this fund has been put into operation (by memorizing, it seems to me to be worth EUR 150 million). However, these sums are allocated every year to fuel this fund. Then, it will be the capacity of the current government and those who will follow it further. In the meantime, however, they give a clear perspective and message. Let us come to the second point, concerning corporate taxes. Here we talk about growth and, as we have said and repeat, it is companies that make GDP and make growth. As far as taxes are concerned, further action has been taken in relation to a design which has its own logic. The first intervention was made in the budget law and concerns the so-called minimum regime, which has been greatly enhanced. 15% up to 65,000 euros have produced results: in the first two months there has been an 8% increase in open VAT consignments, which in absolute terms translate into 100,000 new VAT consignments. The interesting figure was recorded at the end of April: 411,000 VAT consignments joined the minimum system. Many of these are new VAT lots: they are jobs. Article 1 of the Constitution says that the Republic is based on work, not on employees; it says that it is based on work and that self-employment is also included in it. This is a very important mechanism for creating new jobs and, on the one hand, for bringing out black. Combined with the electronic invoice, this mechanism allows black to emerge. In the end, when you can pay only 15 percent (which, in fact, is also much less deducing the costs flat-rately you also get to about 10 percent), who is willing to work in black and risk when practically, spending almost nothing, you are in place and you can go with dignity to the bank to ask for a loan for the car or a mortgage for the house? This has allowed many new VAT matches to be opened. These are small businesses with 65,000 euros of turnover, but from 1 January - it is already law - you get 100,000 euros at a rate of 20%. Ultimately, there are three rates and this is also a simplification: 15% for small VAT consignments, 20% for activities up to EUR 100,000 and 20% (which is the reduction of IRES and also of IRPEF for those in the IRPEF regime) for businesses in general. I speak of 20% because in the growth decree we made a huge simplification of the so-called mini-IRES, that is, the reduction of taxes for companies, following one criterion: you leave the money in the company and you pay 20% (we get to the ladder: the first year there is a reduction; the second and the third you get to 20%). By the way, already the first reduction is worth two billion euros (so they are not abrupt as a reduction of taxes on companies) and then you get to 20%. There are, therefore, three rates: 15 for the smallest; 20 percent for assets up to 100,000 euros with flat rate regime or 20 percent for assets under IRES regime if you leave money in the company (24 percent in the case of dividends). This is also a way to give a clear and simple picture to companies. In addition, the Government's intention is to ensure that all possible and additional spaces are directed towards reducing the tax burden: so 20% can go down further. The other important thing, beyond the simplification of the message given, is the objective: private investment. It is said to reinvest in your company; if this happens, you pay less taxes. It's one simple criterion. We do not think it is effective for the State to decide what the entrepreneur should do: Do this thing and pay less taxes or do the other one and pay less taxes. Entrepreneurs will decide what to do. Simply, if you reinvest you pay less taxes: the message is clear and simple. One last point before we finish. As far as labour costs are concerned, the INAIL insurance discount has been put into effect. Yesterday someone said it was from 2023; be careful, the average 30% discount of INAIL awards is already funded for the three years. In the growth decree we simply put it into a regime and, therefore, it does not end but it is forever. I would like to make one important point: this is happening without taking anything away from safety because, as far as INAIL is concerned - we must be very clear on this subject - nothing changes with regard to training (just see the latest calls recently issued for tens of millions of euros); nothing changes with regard to the incentives lost for prevention and nothing changes with regard to damages (in fact, the table concerning the revaluation of biological damage has also been adapted). There is therefore no reduction in performance, but simply a reduction in labour costs because a 30% discount on INAIL is definitely important. In a nutshell, this is the design behind the decree-law and the other provisions that we have seen as unblocking and budget law. The work does not end here and we hope that, in the continuation of government activity, the Senate can contribute further, with capacity for innovation and ideas, to go in this direction, which is simple and is the only one that we must carry on: making GDP supporting our companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u8	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I believe that we cannot accept the reasoning that the representative of the Government has just explained to the Assembly about the question for which the Government, in spite of the Constitution, has decided to change the process of the laws and in particular the decree-laws. I believe that the Presidency has a duty to say something about this. Mr President, you, us and the whole House cannot accept this kind of attitude and we cannot accept that the Government should come to us and say these things, after the attitudes it had in the Commission and after the delays they had in the House of Members on this measure, clearly because of their responsibility and the responsibility of the majority. Arriving to say that the laws are now discussed in one Chamber and not in the other is objectively unacceptable. Mr President, I am sorry, I know that you are wrong when I say this to you, but you have a duty to defend this House and Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , even in the face of the continuous arrogance of this Government and its representatives, who come here with this mileage. Mr. Deputy Minister, would you mind listening? Have a proper attitude toward the Senate! [[Comments and protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u9	You're talking to me, Senator Marcucci. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u10	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, if this is the Senate you want, enslaved to the government, know that it is not what the Democratic Party wants and that we will not allow it to happen. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Mr President, we hope, ask and invite you to take action against the Government and the ways in which it works and deals with Parliament. [[Protests from L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Everyone has to do their duty here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u13	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we have already expressed all our discomfort and disapproval when we voted against the timetable. However, Mr President, I must say that, with all the esteem for Deputy Minister Garavaglia, whose content and technical activities within the Government are not under discussion, I find that there is much supposition in these explanations. The perfect bicameralism, until proven otherwise, has not yet been abolished. Therefore each House has the right, regardless of the technical electoral times (of the permanent election campaign of this Government, divided on everything), to examine the contents of a measure as important as the decree growth, just as the House - but this is a problem to them - would have equal right to examine the content of the unblocking measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, the government says it invests heavily on this, the government says it binds the future destinies of the country. And I say "future", because the ridiculous thing about this measure is that the contents are all postponed at least to 2023. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, then this is not the Government of change, this is the Government of postponement. That's enough, please, to make fun of us! Vice Minister Garavaglia, I repeat all the esteem, but do not come here to tell us lies or books of dreams, because we are no longer willing to pretend to believe it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u14	He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in approval, without amendments or additional articles... Mr Marcucci (PD). You're arrogant! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. ...of the sole article of Law No 1354, of conversion of Decree-Law No 34 of 30 April 2019 on urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations... Mr Marcucci (PD). You don't know what he's saying! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. ...in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u16	The Presidency notes that the question of trust has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 34 in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.25 a.m. and resumed at 9.47 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u17	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies For the discussion on confidence, one hour and forty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will follow and call it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u18	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u19	Mr President, the purpose of my speech was to speak with Deputy Minister Garavaglia, whom I do not see present in this House, so I shall be entertaining you, Mr President. Our learning path continues in an important phase of reforms implemented by this Government of Change. The Italians did not notice it and I do not think that much of Parliament has noticed it either, but probably - as my colleague, Senator Urso suggested - we missed some tweets. In essence, we learned this morning that the perfect bicameralism has been reformed, President. [[Brusio.]] I think it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because then we all regulate ourselves, even in the management of political life: in the week when we are debating a measure already incardinated in the Chamber of Deputies, my fellow senators will be able to decide to stay at home, since we already know that what happened this week with the growth decree, which came to the House without rapporteurs and was put to a vote of confidence. So, through the vote of confidence, the government implements the constitutional reform for which someone else had to go home. We voted for a referendum, someone rejected the proposal to revise the perfect bicameralism, practice takes over the shortcomings of the Constitution, according to the "enlightened" (those that I define the phenomena of this legislature) and, through the institution or the escamotage (as I think it is more correct to call it) of the vote of confidence in one of the two branches of Parliament, the other is exonerated, preventing him from deepening the measure, the discussion of amendments and the contribution of oppositions - and, I understand, even by a large part of his colleagues in the majority - to improve the measure fired by the other branch of Parliament. Mr President, without the vehemence that characterizes the speeches of the PD Holding Company, with all the humility of a newly elected senator, as I am, I believe that all this must be stopped: I believe that all this is an excess of expedition that must be corrected. I will stop here and entrust myself to those who have the responsibility to govern the House and to ensure that in some respects the decorum is also guaranteed. On the merits of the measure, in my speech yesterday I have already pointed out that in this decree-law there is a pot-pourri of ideas and measures some of which I consider acceptable while others do not. Mr De Bertoldi, who will also express our explanation of vote, will comment on this whole measure better than me. What strikes me, however, and which gives me a doubt to which I find it difficult to answer, is the following: the Deputy Minister outlines the traumatic powers of this measure and describes its divinatory characteristics. I believe in him, of course, because he has data that we Members do not have in such depth. He knows the two months of abundant application of this measure that - I remember - has been in force since 1 May, so better than I obviously know also the possible positive repercussions on the Italian economy. The Deputy Minister, however, let us understand, and let us understand it well: is a process under way to review the DEF forecasts? Because we need to talk about this. The DEF describes the growth of the country produced by this measure, in conjunction with another measure, the unblocking, defined divinatory, and summarizes it at 0.1 percent of GDP: I believe that this is the fact that we have available today. From what has been described by Deputy Minister Garavaglia, this measure has in itself characteristics that can lead to far greater results. Then two, and not others, are the hypotheses: or the vice minister Garavaglia comes to tell us things of which not only he is not convinced, but not even the Italian economy, given the trend of all the indices that in these two months do not seem to have had the beneficial effect that he describes; or, as I said before, he has more detailed and real information available than those coming from our normal sources. If so, we must anticipate that there is a revision of the DEF forecast, which will have to be at least 3-4 percent. So colleagues, and I conclude, a constitutional reform is taking place under our unwitting eyes. I remember that in recent days, during the discussion on the Calabria decree, we have highlighted the presence within the measure of four important reforms, so this is a government that exceptionally carries out very important reforms. In addition to witnessing, under our unknowing and ignorant eyes, a reform of the Constitution and of the perfect bicameralism, we are also faced with an authentic revolution of the economy of the country that escapes the most, commentators and economic newspapers. The same director of the "Il Sole 24 Ore" did not notice and we must tell him, because this morning the deputy minister Garavaglia told us that the forecasts according to which it unblocks yards, together with the decree growth, would have led to an increase of 0.1 percent of the GDP are no longer real and that there is another economic miracle that is happening and that we have not realized. Tell us better, then, photograph this Italian miracle and we will be very happy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u20	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u21	Mr President, when the Government and the majority announced that they would adopt measures for the growth of the country, we decided to wait for the proposals that the competent minister should have made with an attitude of openness of credit, of benevolent expectation, without any prejudice and for the simple reason that we know that growth is a great problem of the country, a great national issue. We know what situation we are in after thirteen months of the Giallorossi government, so we thought that maybe something new would come and we would be made proposals that would convince us to change our judgment: maybe something useful for the country would come. It was a real hope, not rhetoric because, despite what happened in the last year, with the accumulation of failed results and wrong choices, we know that the moment can always come when something changes. What is behind us and what made this provision such an important passage as I have tried to say so far? In these months we have seen nothing serious in the field of infrastructure: stutterings, cancellations of important works, great propaganda exercises, but no concrete facts. We have seen a decidedly insufficient activity compared to the needs of the country in the field of industrial crisis management: by now the list of crises that have not been managed or that have been poorly managed and that are leading to absolutely disastrous results. We have seen in recent months all the main economic indicators turn in a short time from the most to the least, without being able in any way to reverse the trend. We have seen - these are data communicated yesterday by ISTAT and that we have all welcomed with great concern - a crucial variable such as that of the tax pressure, the amount of taxes that are paid in the country in relation to the gross domestic product, grow to reach (since yesterday) a record level in the last five years. All this made it urgent for growth measures to be taken. Unfortunately, after having carefully read the first drafts of the measure, approved a first time and then a second in the Council of Ministers, then almost kidnapped in the Chamber of Deputies and finally practically hidden from the Senate of the Republic, and after having thoroughly examined the contents of the measure under consideration, we had to convince ourselves that another opportunity was being missed. The problem would have been of little account if only the Government and the majority had lost this opportunity, but the country, which in a very difficult situation, of nervousness on the international markets and of heavily negative judgment on the reliability and credibility of our Government in the world, failed to introduce a sign of change and an element of change. We must say that, instead of making a right choice, it was decided to add a very bad piece to the already unwavering mosaic of development policies, which the majority carried out since June 2018, when it settled. There have been mistakes on all fronts, in time and in ways, because the measure was adopted for the first time in the Council of Ministers in April and today it is almost the end of June and we are still discussing it. Such a long iter for a decree-law, that is, for a measure that should be motivated by necessity and urgency and that concerns such a delicate matter, such as that of growth, which, as I have explained so far, really should affect all Italians, raises suspicions. It has not only been wrong in times, but also in ways and procedures. What happened, against the prerogatives of the Senate of the Republic, we cannot dismiss it as an ordinary lack of institutional concern for a branch of Parliament, because for the umpteenth time we found ourselves having to make assessments and have to take decisions on strategic measures, without having given this branch of Parliament time to get a complete idea and to examine thoroughly what was proposed to us. Although I cannot go into too much detail in an intervention under discussion on the question of trust, I think it is important to try to make it clear, with some examples, just what is wrong with the measure that is being proposed to us and that the Government has made the subject of a propaganda and social rhetoric often incomprehensible, given the modesty of the contents. I only give three examples, the first of which is what really hurts me the most, because growth is really a great national issue and in our country there are knots that have restrained it, for decades. We all know that it is not easy to completely untie those knots, but we also know that it would be extremely necessary to show that steps are taken in the right direction. Let us take as an example what has been decided to do in the Industry 4.0 Plan, one of the most important measures, put in place in the legislature in which we governed. Before she demonized herself, it was said that it was of no use and that it was a set of gifts to the largest companies in the country. Then, having seen that the decision to take her out, basically, was causing not only a revolt, but extremely heavy economic effects, it was decided, with the measure under consideration, to back down on the super-depreciation. We appreciate the decision to back down, but we cannot fail to say, especially in this context, that the back-up is too untrue and too little decisive. The restoration of incentives is absolutely partial and, above all, nothing is done about those two crucial measures of industry 4.0, which had been one of the greatest achievements of our work in the last parliamentary term: the tax credit for training and the tax credit for research and development. If we finally want to change the trajectory of productivity in this country, increase the growth potential and the chances of the working population and businesses, we should be concerned about the amount of research, development and training that we can guarantee. Unfortunately, there was no signal from this point of view. The choice that hurts the most, because it really reveals the inability to have a general view of the needs of this country in terms of development, is that on the cost of labor. The cost of labour, however, reduces it, is almost always a right thing, there is a chance in a hundred that one thing is done wrong by reducing the cost of labour, yet you have managed to stick in that case out of a hundred where even the reduction of the cost of labour creates problems. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, one could reduce the amount of social security contributions that companies are called upon to pay for their workers, one could act on the Irpef to increase the net wages of the workers themselves. One thing could not be done: to reduce the insurance premiums for accidents at work, by apprehending the system of preventing and combating irregularities with regard to accident legislation in the workplace. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You've been able to do that, too, and you should ask yourself some questions. As for the choice on Alitalia, let me say that instead of doing something useful for a large company in this country that would restore its competitiveness and give it the prospect of a sustainable future, it has decided to bow yet another to a state and directing dogma and above all it has decided for the umpteenth time to throw away money. I wonder if this is a measure or not just a heap of inconsistent, partial, fragmentary choices, which does not draw a strategy but only a very tiring and confused chase towards consensus that unfortunately I believe are at this time far superior to what you are doing useful for this country. I think you should look into the mistakes and wrong choices in this law, but I am sure that once again it will not be done and that it will be tried with the noise of propaganda to cover the misery of the facts. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u22	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, yesterday we spoke about this not particularly performing athlete, Italy. We have remembered, in order to share them among all, the data that testifies to us that this action of government of the last year has not given us that marvel, that positive change so proclaimed in the squares, that has already disappointed many citizens. We want to remember that only yesterday ISTAT certified that the deficit in the first quarter of 2019 is 4.1 percent: take it as a warning and from there we start to say that if it is true what the vice minister Garavaglia told us before, that is that growth can be done only through the enterprises that think of the future, that they search, that they create job, that they give job, that they export, and a public administration that does what they have to do, that is to take the data that already has all in telematic form, put them to system, compile, simplify the life of the enterprises, if it is true what he said, that the companies cannot, in this historical moment, have an extra cost euro, you do not understand what is the minimum wage to nine euros, that kills the enterprises, You know that. There is no point in a growth decree in which only 400 million euros are invested if you then kill the whole country system. We need serious reflection and we will do it in the next few days, but we cannot just kill companies and collective bargaining at once. The only intelligent thing that can be done at this stage on minimum wage is to do what the OECD says: at most six-seven euros at European level and therefore the European minimum wage, avoid wage dumping in Europe. This is the only intelligent thing that can be done in Italy with Europe, for Europe and for growth. The other thing you absolutely can't do is make fun of businesses. Minibots are a huge mockery of business. The intelligent thing that can be done is to negotiate positive flexibility, that is to go to Europe from an exemplary country of what the new Europe is and to negotiate positive flexibility that gives air and breath to companies and to Italy. Yesterday we discussed a great deal in a critical sense. Today I would like to talk about what we have left on the agenda, as a testimony to the future. And it's a measure for businesses. You wrote something for companies that was already very counterintuitive: that, at last, the taxpayer can be called into contradictory at the stage of investigation. You also wrote that it's okay for companies to keep their accounts on mechanical records, because we don't need to clogged our companies with paper. What you haven't written is the future of business. It's the future of control, it's the future of verification. If we are going towards mechanization, computerization, the replacement preservation of documents, even the Revenue Agency, even the public administration must check online. There is absolutely no point in asking, as is written in this decree-law, to print in case of verification. Are you kidding me? Do we have to print? Public administration adapts. The other measure that is not in this decree, and we have said so, is a vision of infrastructure. We didn't find anything on the TAV. We didn't find anything on the future of connections and infrastructure. Nothing. We have only found a great deal of confusion about what we want to do. You privatise what you wanted public, that is water. You nationalize what you wanted private, that is Alitalia. And there is a great deal of confusion about motorway infrastructure. A suggestion we have left to you: the transposition of the European directive which envisages overcoming aggregation. It makes no sense that only in Italy there are in-houses that must be 100% attended by the public. Throughout Europe they have understood that private participation with this efficient and entrepreneurial logic helps the efficiency and the look towards the future, including in-houses. This is the suggestion that you have approved and that we have left you on the motorway infrastructure. On the growth and on the consumption side, here too a suggestion. If we want to increase growth, we must leave more spending capacity to families. So there are two amendments: one important, even symbolic, on the tampon tax. Why do Italian women and families have to pay 22% of VAT today and 26% tomorrow on tampons, since we already know that you will not be able to sterilize the safeguard clauses at all? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Leave her this shopping capacity. Do what you do in Europe. Reduce VAT to 5%. They are essential products, such as those for children and those for the elderly. If there is one right thing to do, it is to leave more spending capacity to families, people, women, children and the things they need, that is, training. Let's get to the young people. What you wrote doesn't make sense. It makes no sense to ask super-trained people, who are abroad and who earn three times as much what they earn here, to return to Italy to have a deduction of 250 euros per month. But no one is interested in this deduction! Nobody wants it! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This decree-law is not a growth decree. First of all, because it has no vision of the future and no vision of how seriously, by method, you want to make growth. Invest only 400 million euros, the same amount that Veneto and Lombardy, pro quota, invest for the 2018 Olympics. You have already written that growth will be 0.1% of GDP, when it is already written, and that is why they have given it to us, that the Olympics will bring only them 3% increase in GDP. He's not serious. It's an urgent order suspended. Thirty-nine implementing decrees are missing. Many measures will come into force in 2023. It is also an optional decree, as for folders and municipalities. But some municipalities may decide whether to do so or not, because it is optional. I understand that there must be the level of decision, but what is the point of writing such a rule? As for investments in ZE and investment in crisis areas, funds are used without feeding the funds, without adding a penny. This isn't growth. You can't generate growth like that; you can only write a title, which is what you did. We say all that is enough and we simply want to work by closing a very sad chapter in Italian history to build a better future. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u24	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, even a few minutes ago Mr Garavaglia spoke to us about bicameralism. Indeed, this debate on the role of the House and the Senate has nothing to do with bicameralism. If the problem were a constitutional reform, as a Government of change you would have had to set up a constitutional reform, instead, you just reduced the number of parliamentarians and you don't even think about setting up a reform. In truth, the situation is very different. I say this above all to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: I just want to imagine for a moment what you would have done if in the previous legislature you had found yourself in the situation in which I am standing, in opposition, without the opportunity to discuss the state budget and without any opportunity to discuss any measures. You would have climbed on those benches, declared the arrogance of the majority and protested seamlessly. I would then like to make a brief and sympathetic reflection: look at the fact that, when you come to power and do not have antibodies, the power is distorted. It didn't just happen to you, it happened already in other stages. You should open a reflection on this. The agenda is given by the Minister of everything, that is the Prime Minister- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of all the Salvini Dicasteries. It shows you the agenda, up to the ridiculous figure of a country like Italy in front of the story that is being lived in Lampedusa. Many immigrants have been stuck there for many days and, at the same time, ten more immigrants arrive and nobody says anything because there is the election campaign of the minister of all Salvini. You, Supini, accept everything, in the name of the fact that nothing else can be done because, if you go to vote, the risk would be to suffer a blow. The government of change has produced the disease of old politics: one becomes politicians, regardless of content, one abandons the things that have been said with great certainty and one undergoes the charm of power to exercise power and to make appointments. Colleagues and Friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, I hope you will really start a reversal of trend. I now come to the decree of growth. What is striking is a figure summarized in the Vice-Minister's reply: there is no figure, whether of the Istat or of international certifiers, or of the economic situation, which does not indicate a negative element. The integration fund grows, the distance on productivity increases, the use of electricity for industrial plants decreases; in short, all negative data. You do not intend to take note of this and tell us that the reduction in taxes will produce a great recovery. I'm frontally opposed to flat tax, but I take this as a self-criticism. We told you, discussing, without any possibility of affecting, the budget law that you have done: you have increased taxes and not decreased taxes, but go on television to tell the opposite. Take the Istat data and question them: I know it is not good for you, but what is said in this House remains here, because the communication system is focused on the Sea Watch. Take note: you have increased taxes, ladies and gentlemen. You want another example? In the budget law, beyond what you think, you have dismantled the super depreciation: now put it back together. This is because, in truth, you have no strategy for this country. Criticize the previous governments, but you have no alternative vision and even the statements of Deputy Minister Garavaglia do not solve the problems. I would just like to give one example: Deputy Minister Garavaglia said he wanted to simplify and, for industrial policy, give a prize to anyone who invests, wherever he does. I would like to point out that no country in Europe or the West facing industrial policy makes such a choice. We are Europe's second largest manufacturer, but in the areas with the greatest added value in the coming years, from biotechnology to nanotechnologies, to life sciences, we will be dwarves. A serious industrial policy, taking into account the characteristics of our production system, should direct investment towards the strategic sectors and sectors of the future; but you have no idea of this. You have taken so many measures, some useful and positive, but you really can't build a strategy. After all, you think the opposite way between you. Every time you find yourself discussing something, you don't give us the chance to make a contribution, for a very simple reason: you arrive at the last moment at a synthesis a little 'of here and a little 'of there, a little' to me and a little' to you. It is clear that there is no design and that there is no project for this country. Say sacrosanct things, such as deburring or unlocking construction sites. We'll see; in fact, the investments are falling and we'll see what that unlocker will produce. You said that unlocking measures and growth will produce a growth of 0.1 percent; you said so. By the way, I would like to ask whether we can take stock in this House or in the Commission of what is happening on citizenship income and quota 100. Since we're talking about significant savings, can you get the data? Do you inform this House of what we are doing, of what we are spending, of how much it comes into the pockets of the citizens, of what it is producing? Because, after all, democracy is this: you have the right and the duty to govern, but we as opposition have the right to ask you to give us the data and to understand what is happening. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my speech yesterday, I address all those who care about the National Health Service: Article 14 is a frontal attack on the national health system. If you have the courage to say that you want to privatise; if you do not have the courage, change that rule, because it is a shame that a health service is already in serious crisis. Read what is on the Net today in relation to the commitments that Minister Bussetti has made. Gentlemen, we are calling military doctors and retired doctors, we are doing unheard of things from the point of view of the emergency and you have not yet managed to make the fundamental choice to address this problem: significantly increase specializations and allow the health system to move forward. I would like it to be clear, and I say it with certainty: no one will be able to say tomorrow in this House that he did not know the consequences of Article 14. You said that health funds are not commercial: please stop, in the interests of the dignity and the right to health of citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator Di Marzio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u26	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u27	Mr President, one of the most popular slogans in 1968 was: 'Imagination in power'; in 2018, however, in Italy, imagination did not go to power, but demagogy, propaganda and incompetence. You have pompously called the growth decree the measure under consideration; let me say that there is not even a shadow of growth in the many articles that are gradually added. There is the correction of some resounding errors of the fiscal law of 2019: the incentives of the Plan Enterprise 4.0, which you had disassembled and put back (better late than never); you changed the mini Ires, which did not work. In the measure under consideration there is counter-order on the banks, I say it to my friends 5 Stars: they were the enemies of the people and now you save the Banca Popolare of Bari, but you are ashamed to say it because you modestly call this rule "tax incentive to promote the growth of southern Italy" but it is a measure saves banks. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the decree-law in question there is then a series of messes. We had introduced the norm for the return of the brains: it has become a generalized detaxation of all those who come to Italy, including the footballers. Alitalia does not know what will happen, but in the meantime 650 million for the airline you will take them from electric bills; on the so-called rescue Rome and the rescue municipalities, 490 million will be taken from the Industry 4.0 Fund, that is, money taken from growth and development. There is also the mother of all disasters: the former Ilva of Taranto. In the measure, in fact, remove the legal shield, give an alibi to private shareholders to leave this country, put at risk the largest investment in the Mezzogiorno, environmental protection plans for citizens of Taranto and 15,000 jobs in one of the most unfortunate areas of Southern Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Where is the growth in this decree-law? There is no growth, there is yet another chapter of the total failure of this Government's economic policy. That is what emerges from the measure at our examination. Nine months ago, from that mythical balcony of Palazzo Chigi, you announced the expansionary maneuver that would bring growth to 1.5% and abolish poverty. You have made the budget law, you have made debts on debts for 100 percent and citizenship income, you have blocked large public works from the TAV, you have dismantled the Enterprise 4.0 program. I believe that twelve months of government have shown that the slogans do not govern and that the reality, sooner or later, the account presents it. The bill has arrived, unfortunately, in our country because the growth is at zero, because the Cassa Integrazione has grown by 35% compared to a year ago and because on the table of Minister Di Maio there are 158 corporate crises with 300,000 jobs at risk, but Minister Di Maio is in permanent electoral campaign and those tables remain deserted and are not faced. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are tables ranging from Pernigotti to the former FIAT of Termini Imerese, passing through Whirlpool, Alcoa and Mercatone Uno. The list is endless and hundreds of thousands of jobs deserve the utmost attention from the government. It was supposed to be a beautiful year in 2019. It has become the year of stagnation. Mr President, the next few days will be decisive for the economy of this country, first of all for the Community infringement procedure. Let us be clear: we are rooting for Italy, we want this country to avoid the infringement procedure and we are happy to hear from Minister Tria that there are all the conditions to avoid it, because it would be a disaster for our country. But in this year, Mr President, Italy's infringement procedure has created it on its own, we have built it ourselves with an unprecedented self-injury. The spread of 250, the distrust of consumers and businesses, the blocking of investments have a fundamental cause: the economic policy of this Government, not Europe. The uncertainty, the paralysis of decisions, the blocking of major works, the debt that is growing again and the greatest fear: that Italy's exit from the euro is not a fantasy but a concrete option for a large part of this majority and this Government. This is the boulder that is in front of the country and that you have put, the boulder that blocks growth and blocks the revival of our economy. These boulders we must remove if we really want to produce growth in our country. We must return to dialogue and seriously negotiate with Europe. We need to rebuild the confidence of consumers, businesses, all the players in the economy. We must give them a horizon of certainty and we must give ourselves serious objectives of economic policy, such as cutting taxes: yes, to the workers, to the companies they hire and invest in reducing tax evasion, not making it a deficit, but clearing the jungle of facilities and restoring equity to the Italian tax system. We need to find resources for school, for health, for family policies, and we need to do so by resuming the review of the expenditure that the central-left governments had undertaken and that you have abandoned. Do we have to invest? Yes, the money is there and it's been allocated. However, we need to focus on them, because you have lost them in a thousand streams and in this way we cannot spend money and we need to focus on the decisive challenge for our country's future: environmental sustainability, 2030 Agenda and climate change. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must put the debt back in check, and we must do so not because Brussels is asking us to do so but because it is one of the greatest responsibilities we have towards our children. I shall conclude, Mr President, by adding that an alternative path, a different economic policy, exists. We want to build it, together with the workers, the companies and the third sector, we want to build it together with the Italy that fights and that does not resign to stagnation, does not resign to incompetence and does not resign to demagogy. It is an Italy that deserves a better future. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u28	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u29	Mr President, speaking on this measure, which you have not seen and will not see the debate on the amending part, because the question of trust has now been raised, I must express all the discomfort, as a Member of Parliament, for the chaos that has arisen. First of all, the measure should have been urgent, two months ago, in order to make the economy grow: in fact, Istat data tell us the exact opposite, because however for two months the measure produces - or should have produced - its beneficial effects on growth, but the encephalogram is completely flat. However, the disorder of the measure is also causing discomfort, so it is difficult to express a judgment: personally, looking at the fifty current articles, I can find a series of interventions that I share, but there are as many useless and others absolutely not acceptable. It is therefore a maneuver without money, as emerges from the fact that, if one is to add up, in the end the resources at stake for the growth of a country of 60 million inhabitants and 1,800 billion euros of gross domestic product are about 500 million: these are the values and the entities in question. Someone can say that the regulatory role has the function of activating a number of different rules for the development of the economy, indeed - according to those who are on the side of my thinking - for the private to develop and make new businesses. We call on companies to invest, to create jobs and to give the development that is expected of such a measure. In reality, however, with every measure we engage the private and find a way to stop something. We are seeing the extreme case: with the one under consideration, a page of the steel industry is probably closed in Italy, perhaps the most important in Europe, that of Taranto. It is therefore a choice to fire thousands more employees and close a game that could cost not only Italy, but Europe as a whole. In fact, having the largest steel mill in Europe also means being competitive with respect to price: going to buy from the Asian realities and China in particular, although friends, probably risks costing much more expensive, with very heavy consequences on the system of our economy. The measure therefore presents disorder and slogan for growth, at a time when on the other hand we have a confrontation with the European Union, which I hope will continue to take place according to the indications of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Economy, with the utmost seriousness and the overall assessment of the Italy system, avoiding a harmful infringement procedure against us. In order to avoid this, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred to be in this House today to say that I do not agree with your general plan and what you place as a pre-condition and regulatory activation for your policy. In fact, it is not possible: there is no drawing, there is no path. There is daily management, with tweet responses to the many emergencies in this country that occur. With one concern: the Deputy Minister Garavaglia - of which I personally appreciate the commitment - made a consideration, saying that the first application to the flat-rate, a first flat tax activated with the financial maneuver of December, has created the opportunity for many new enterprises to be born. There are two considerations on the subject: the first is the call to be careful and to read what new businesses are. Let's be careful about the law-induced tertiarization. We are convinced in support of the free market and we are the first advocates of freedom of enterprise, but we are attentive to fake tertiarizations, which create companies that companies are not: this is the reality that is taking place in the country. I hope that the Government will also realise this - I am addressing the Undersecretary who is no longer writing, so I can transfer the message directly to the Government - and pay the utmost attention to this. In fact, we have to come to an overall understanding. In the country, having an alternative plan means making the overall tax reform, because the reform to pieces creates damage; it means to think that we have a health system that no longer holds and that risks being only for the rich and for the recommended, colleagues, because poor people send it to do the TAC a year later. This probably doesn't happen to the rich and recommended. It means to think that we have a country that does not grow like the rest of Europe, but - I would like to remind you - it has the same rules as we do, so it is blocked by something that depends on us and also on this House: that is what we have to realize. We have a school that, despite the cost and also the considerable weight on the state budget, continues to slide into statistics on education levels (although with all the considerations that can be made on these statistical models) at world level or at European level. So, ladies and gentlemen, the substance is this: we talk about growth and Istat yesterday tells us that we do not grow. Perhaps with today's measure it will completely change history and tomorrow we will see everything reversed, but to measure this, colleagues who will soon vote on trust, I ask you a question: would you trust to start a variable rate mortgage this afternoon? If you have such confidence, colleagues of the majority, would you trust to choose the variable rate this afternoon? Or would you ask for a fixed rate mortgage? I'd ask for it at a fixed rate, but I'm against it. Here is the question and here is the indicator, because if you believe it, you have to believe it to the full. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why we cannot say that we are happy, because our 200 amendments have also not been taken into account. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Steger).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u30	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u31	Mr President, Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we need a certain sense of courage - which you have - and also a little bit of a nerve to come here and talk about a growth decree (in short: de-growth). It takes a little courage, because your Government and growth are two parallel worlds, destined not to meet. Since you've been around, growth has disappeared. There are two different readings: you say it's just a matter of bad luck, we think you're incapable, but what's certain is that the numbers speak for you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When we left, the Monti government and the Letta government were around 2% of GDP growth, so in decline; our governments came just below 2%; with you we returned to zero. The Integration Fund explodes, the tax burden grows, the country goes worse than before. The drama is that you did it all yourself. It is said that you grew up because you had Dragons. You have it too, we have it too and "good thing Dragons is there" would have been said once. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The point is that, since the Minister of Economic Development came out of that balcony (it must have taken effect), you have no longer returned to yourself. This drama sees Italy in difficulty. You can manipulate words, but not reality. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Here at one time it was all an accusation: "Premier not elected", today it is called "Avocator of the People." [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here once everything was old-fashioned, now called a government contract. Among other things, you had explained to us, gentlemen of the majority, that you would do the government contract because at least you wouldn't quarrel: compared to you, "Beautiful" is the earthly paradise, for the constant quarrels of which you are giving bad proof. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here once it was all "honesty": now it is defined as "49 million", it is done first. Here once, when trust was placed - number 13 from the beginning of the legislature, the fourth to the Senate, 9 to the House - the vice president of the current Senate, Senator Paola Taverna, made a direct Facebook and said: They put trust: we are in dictatorship. Now, of course, Senator Taverna has made a journey that has led her to the vice-president of the Senate, after a brief experience as a vaccine expert, and we are happy with this great change, this change that concerns her; but the fact is that you put a confidence in the month ("if you could have a confidence in the month!'). The ultimate emblem of this reasoning is the Olympic challenge. Think of poverty risk, companies that do not renew contracts and the government speaks of Olympics: this expression, this tweet is of the current vice-president of the Council, Mr Luigi Di Maio. Since he abolished poverty, he's fine and the Olympics can be done. The other vice-president of the Council, Salvini, said: "Renzi wants to do the Olympics: take him in. Maybe it's just an act of attention, a checkup is always done willingly, but I don't use the hashtag "Recover it," which Salvini addressed to me when we wanted to do the Olympics, except today to be five circles for a week, full of joy and enthusiasm for the Olympics. I say "remember it," don't "receive it." Matteo Salvini changes his mind about everything: it's also an encouraging fact, maybe he'll change his mind about something else. I remember him talking about North Korea, where, in his opinion, there was a great sense of community. He's going to the White House now, that's for the best. I remember it when it sounded like... "Feel that it stinks, dogs also run away: the Neapolitans are coming, words of the statesman of Pontida, and today he says "Long live the South." It's better that way. He changed his mind. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Tifava France at the 2006 World Cup, Salvini, in a beautiful live for Radio Padania. He started with the Padan communists, Mr President, defending the Leoncavallo, and now he talks about the "zecche" of the social centers. I mean, Matteo Salvini changes his mind. Maybe in ten years we'll find him volunteered by an NGO ship in the Mediterranean, with the inscription "Open the ports". We don't know. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What is certain is that, if there were the Summer Olympics, we would have the best candidate for the specialty of diving with carpy, screwing and triple death jump; but the Summer Olympics are not there, we won the winter Olympics. I'm not here because? Because the mayor Raggi said no and it seems - from the sacred texts, the book of the former Honorable Di Battista - that this did not come after a summit at the mechanic of Di Battista, between one oil change and the other: the popular consultation, led by Di Battista, seems to have expressed this niet at the Olympics, with the result that today Rome is farther from the other European capitals. I turn now not to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, but to those of the left who have made us the morale saying that we were not credible enough and that they wanted, for once, to give us a signal, to express a vote of protest: voting 5 Stars, as they know in Rome and Turin, produces side effects that last years. It is as if it caused a failure, that Rome and Turin are living and that unfortunately risks living also in the South. Of course, my fellow Members will not believe it, because the President-in-Office said that this will be a wonderful year. The President of the Council, this aspiring meteorologist, deputy of his deputy, spokesperson of his spokesman, ceremonier without ceremony, who cannot put his mouth on Libya, on Venezuela, on Trump, on Xi Jinping, on appointments: he goes to the meetings of appointments with Casalino; he exchanged appointments with nominations, but a certain know-how, on this, certainly Casalino can bring him. This President-in-Office of the Council told us that it is a beautiful year. And to think that those of the UCIMU, the trade association that deals with machinery and infrastructure, explain that after we had done super and hyper amortization and Industry 4.0 there had been a record growth. Now it's stuck. You, with this decree-law, take away the money from the companies that innovate [[Applause from the PD Group]] and give them to the incompetent administrators who have brought the municipalities to the foreknowledge. To the mayors and mayors of the League - I admit, although they have different ideas, there are good ones in this House - I say: you are giving money to those administrators who, when you were in the Commune, you challenged because they brought their Municipalities to a failure. Is it possible to know, Mr President of the Senate, whether the TAV is being or not? Because the minister, indeed fortunately vice minister, Laura Castelli - that of "That's what you say!" - said the day before yesterday that the TAV will be light. They've been finding Toninelli looking for a balance at the Ministry for two days to figure out what the light TAV is. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Are you doing the TAV, yes or no? In France they are doing the work without giving the vacation to move on with the yards. You guys do the TAV, yeah or no? Don't make fun of Italians: yes or no, there is no light TAV to hold. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And again, Senators of the League, is it ever possible that you will arrive, after this decree growth, to say that September 6 closed the Ilva? There is not only a drama related to Ilva, there is a drama linked to the ability to attract foreign investment. It's in newspapers all over the world. You can't say he'll find a Di Maio solution for so many reasons. The central point is that the effect of the de-growth measure is that you close Ilva with 15,000 fewer jobs - as my colleagues mentioned earlier - giving that private company a gigantic alibi, Mr President, so as not to do the biggest European environmental reclamation operation anymore. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , that we built going to get 1 billion from Riva. We did, while you made false promises to the tarantinos. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a fact: the only money that this Government has at the moment comes from e-invoicing, from the investment we made on the digitisation of tax. I am sorry to say this here to the majority, but it is a measure born as a proposal to the Leopolda of 2010, and that becomes a political fact and legal act in this Parliament with the Government of 2014-2015. These are the only new resources we have seen at this stage and these new resources should be put on the Internet of Things, on artificial intelligence, on big data, on the circular economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As the world moves toward artificial intelligence, you choose the path of natural stupidity. We will vote "no" to the decree, you said "no" to the growth and Italy will pay the bill of your bizarreness. [[Extended applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Giarrusso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u32	Senator Giarrusso, we're not at the stadium.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u33	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u34	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteurs, all Commissioners, Presidents Bagnai and Girotto of the Commissions for their work. (Brusio). STEFANO (PD). But what speakers? PRESIDENT. - Senator Stefano, let my colleague speak. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would also like to thank the officials and the spirit of cooperation which - honestly, I have to admit - has been within the Commission, albeit of course on different positions. A necessary quote for Senator D'Alphonso - who will probably be included exclusively by the members of the two Commissions - who has a great lexical capacity: he made me almost regret not being a member of the 6th Commission. Let's say, even from a personal point of view, you never finish learning. The Government, Mr President, through a series of measures, has committed itself to the revival of the economy, to the dignity of people, with particular attention to those on the poverty line, to the right retirement expectations, to the security, both of the borders and of our cities, and to the just and sacrosanct determination in the fight against human trafficking. Today we are talking about a decree that already says a lot from its name: it is about economic growth and it is precisely the growth that Italy needs to start. This is what Deputy Minister Garavaglia said before: we fill Italy with orange vests. (Senator Rufa's apology.) We are faced with a series of large and small measures to improve the lives of citizens, professionals and businesses. This I say, not only as vice president of the Commission industry, commerce, tourism or as senator of the Republic, but as a simple citizen of this wonderful country. I would just like to mention some of the measures contained in this decree. Super amortization for small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in new capital goods of up to 2.5 million; quick reimbursements under 50,000 euros through a preferential lane for bank cracks, those that should make the hair rise to dear colleagues of the Democratic Party; reopening of the terms of the dismantling-b on 31 July 2019; guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises; mini-IRES; sustainable mobility; interventions in the tourism and agriculture sectors, where we have a Minister who distinguishes himself every day for efficiency and capacity. In the tourism sector, in particular, I would like to mention the inclusion of the identification code, which is a fundamental tool for combating abuse in the receptive sector; measures on accessible, rural and return tourism and measures aimed at the categories "fragili" for example for disability and large families; the tourist card, which is immediately applicable, which will allow him to purchase goods and services with a single instrument, from transport to entry to places of culture, playgrounds or food and wine products. With regard to agriculture, the decree equates agricultural companies with farmers and direct farmers with an authentic and retroactive interpretation rule, in order to include them in the tax concessions granted to them for the purposes of Imu. In favour of national consortia and collective organisations of companies operating in foreign markets, 50% of the costs incurred for the legal protection of products affected by the phenomenon of Italian sounding, this unknown to the Democratic Party, are introduced. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For the three-year period 2019-2021 is then provided the so-called 3I voucher (Invest in innovation) to support innovative start-ups. This is yet another measure of common sense promoted by this Government and this majority: another concrete response to the needs of Italian citizens, entrepreneurs, productive categories, yet another of a long series to restart our country and to raise Italy's head. You see, Mr President, in these weeks (but perhaps I should say in these months) we have heard and read of all kinds. All against this government, all against this majority. They have defined us in many ways, from crude to rednecks to incapable: Senator Renzi said it first, with little memory, in reality. Different divisions and quarrels are invented every day. Great experts, great writers who present books on the boats of NGOs, great professors and great newspapers daily attacking, which makes us think that we are probably really on the right track. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. The microphone is automatically switched off.]] This is mutiny, a conspiracy... Mr Ferrari (PD). Do it yourself! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). That was a joke! You never know how to laugh. It was a joke. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). That was a joke. Get her a little laughing. [[Comments of Senator Laus]] Guys, less... Yet, to the test of the facts, this Government, with minister Salvini, is that that it has closed the ports and has drastically reduced the illegal immigration, is that that it has obtained quota 100 and has begun to scrap the law Fornero, is that that it has approved the flat tax and is still carrying it forward, is that that that has given the green light to the decree security and has given more power to the local administrators, in order to contrast the degradation, is that that it has concretely supported the small Municipalities - to you unknown! - with vital funding for their operation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is the one that has financed with 250 million euros in a perpetual way the Italian Provinces, that you have abolished and you should be ashamed for this! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have taken away from the territories a reference point: you did it, then President Monti did it and then Minister Delrio did it. You have forgotten the country: this is the truth. Not to mention, from Liguria the unprecedented commitment to Genoa, of which I am proud, after the tragic collapse last August. Mr President, I do not remember, in recent decades - and I am being denied - so much attention from an executive for an area hit by an emergency. This is a government that finally goes to contract in Europe no longer, as it was in the past, in a subordinate position, but to assert its own reasons, tired of suffering and with the awareness that this, Mr President, is really a great country. These are measures that people were asking us for, common sense responses, just like today's, which go hand in hand with all the results achieved so far. Once again, the League, the majority and the Government move from words to deeds. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that I understand the agitation, discomfort and frustration of my fellow Members, who do not derive from the measure under consideration, but probably stems from the fact that all the measures that the government has adopted by hand are giving answers to those electorate and those people who have always addressed themselves, in order to obtain a consensus, miserably failing: I am talking about the poor, the last, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the traders, the farmers, the social fabric, which perhaps for the first time are really at the heart of the agenda of the political class and the government. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Then it's nice to listen to Senator Renzi's umpteenth meeting, which never comes from time to time, especially when there is a vote of confidence and he comes to give us advice, which instead of talking about the decree under consideration, he spoke of nothing, in the style of allologue de noantri, of course. After all, the only audience that can now have is this one here and they pay us also to listen to it: it's a show, a wonder [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The squares are now frequented only to sit in the dehors to reminisce the sunsets. The check-up, dear former president Renzi, was done by the Italians and they had a check-up from head to toe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Moreover, if the Democratic Party in its laborious, complicated, path of change, with its internal and internal struggles, with its "comparisons," as they like to define them, elects a secretary and to the first question that is addressed to him on what would be the first provision if it were to the Government, our man answers: the ius solis.... [[Comments from the PD Group]] BITI (PD). It doesn't take "s"-- REPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). That's good. Please, don't ever change! You're our best sponsor! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u35	Senator Causin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to point out that the time allowed... Now I do not understand the hilarity of my colleagues in the League, because there will soon be an infringement procedure and you will have very little to laugh at. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u37	Senator, talk to me! CAUSIN (FI-BP). President, on a personal note! I may be a joker, but the numbers in a few months will say who the clowns in this Parliament are.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u38	[[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Dear colleagues of the League...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u39	Either talk to me or quit.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u40	MIRABELLI (PD). Just shut up the ones behind you! Senator Mirabelli, I'll take care of the House, don't worry. CAUSIN (FI-BP). President. - The vote will take place at the next voting time. If you think that Parliament is a caciare, we throw it in a caciare. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'd like to say that money and numbers are a sacred thing. I say this as a Venetian: scheas are a sacred thing. In Veneto it is said that first the vineyard comes, then the money comes, then the family comes and then the faith comes. Maybe some colleague who has Sant'Alberto da Giussano as a reference saint and who lives in my territory knows that this is a culture. I say this because money is sacred especially when it is not ours, when it is not the availability of our portfolio, but it is the money of the community, of Italian citizens. I try to explain it in simple terms: I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have inherited a heavy country's budgetary situation and it is certainly not your fault. I say this above all to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement because they have not ruled in the last twenty years, while my colleagues in the League for nine years have been a determining part of majorities that have ruled this country. A situation where debt is 132 percent of gross domestic product is, from an economic point of view, serious. It's like we have a company that makes 100 million turnover and has a debt to banks of 132 million. From a civil point of view - if there is an accountant in this House - what happens is that those who run a business like this must bring books to court. Surely it is not your fault, if you have inherited this situation, but because you feel that you are good and competent, after a year that governed you are supposed to put in the field of solutions, strategies and visions that are aimed at improving this situation of serious debt that is no longer expandable to infinity, you must contain it because the money is of the community, the country's heritage is of the community, the country's economic situation concerns the individual well-being of citizens and businesses and there is a sacrosanct duty to take measures to improve this situation. You are like the doctor who guesses the diagnosis, because you rightly say that the country does not grow. If the company Country has these numbers, there are two ways: either you increase your turnover (gross domestic product) and you make growth or you reduce your debt. It is not that you can not but grow and at the same time increase the debt, which is what you have done in the first eight months of government. So much so that when they ask me at the bar how the government is going, I am a very layman and I usually have no preconceived positions, but to explain how you governed just say that in eight months you spent what a government normally spends in five years. You've done, I mean, an increase in debt operation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have increased your debt, you have spent everything, and that is why you are obliged to stay, because it will be clear that you have done so. You've spent everything. What a government spends in five years is spent in eight months. The diagnosis, therefore, is right and correct, you have to make growth, only that the cure compared to the decree you are putting in place is a wrong cure. It is a wrong cure, not only in merit but also in method. Since the money is from the community, the fact that we put trust, that we do not have this decree examined in the Commissions, that we do not allow the House to have an extended debate on this issue of growth, is, from the political point of view and from the point of view of institutional respect, a wrong thing. I do not say that recourse to trust is something that must not be done. Trust can be used. There are issues that need to be addressed. But when it comes to the country's economic situation, I think that Parliament has a sacrosanct right, both in the Commissions and in this House, to examine together the possible solutions to get out of a difficult position. Especially if you are not capable, especially if your inability is a manifest fact. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The effectiveness of the decree will be inversely proportional to the roboance of the name you gave it: growth. The only growth you can see on the horizon, compared to the measures you are preparing to put in place, is debt growth, the growth in the value of the deficit-GDP ratio. You spend more than what you produce and, therefore, when a company has a negative EBITDA, you have repercussions on the cash. This the accountants very often do not know, because they think they are numbers. But those who made the manager and not the accountant know that, when there is a loss on the budget, this loss becomes a cash tension, which means that they can no longer pay the suppliers, the people who have bonds with us; it means that it becomes a problem for us and for the Italian citizens who have signed the public debt, and that it can become a problem for the other countries, European and non-European, that have signed the public debt. On the horizon, there is a glimpse of the growth of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. There is a glimpse of the growth in the mortality of SMEs because growth is also achieved through deburocratisation. You know, for a small craft business, what does it mean to stay alive? What does it mean for a young man to open a business? Responding with a bank and a public administration, having permissions, managing the cost of staff and all tax obligations? Today, those who open a business, those who do business, big or small, are a civil hero in Italy. Those who take their own venture capital, that of their own family, and wager it to create their own work and to give jobs to others are a civil hero. Everything that happens in this country, in fact, is against free initiative. It is against the capacity and the need that a country has to generate wealth. You put your confidence in the growth decree, but in the growth decree that we will soon vote on the major issues, which are the drive of the country, are not there. Why aren't they here? Because you have conflicting ideas, as Mr Renzi also said earlier, in a very theatrical way, since he is a very good speaker. There is no strategic theme on which you agree: from the TAV, to the big ships, to the theme of Pedemontana, thinking of the Region in which I live, the theme of taxes and the reduction of excise duties, which can also be a reorganization of excise duties, and the cost of labor. I think that when an entrepreneur takes over the decree that we will go to approve and that he has your signature and your trace, he will look for these measures and will not find them. When a law is born in Parliament, this law must have repercussions on people's lives. There will be no such repercussions. Then there is another aspect that is not to be overlooked: the demographic one. One thing that you and we in Parliament have not yet understood is that in Italy we do not grow for a simple reason: the working population that works and produces GDP is getting less and less. Those who work are less and less, and you have been determining why the working working population has still declined, because you retired before people and have given young people tools to stay home without working. How can one think that an industrialised country, which has a backbone of small and medium-sized enterprises, will grow with a fertility rate that is the lowest rate in Europe and with an active population that works increasingly lower? The country needs trust. President. - I conclude by saying that the measure we are going to approve has no strategy and the Forza Italia Group clearly cannot vote for confidence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u41	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the Commander, and the officers attending the 47th High School of Economic and Financial Police of the Financial Guard, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government of change, for eighteen years our country has been forced by policies of senseless and self-injury; for eighteen years the policies of successive governments, driven by the wishes of the Commission and the European treaties, force our companies to seek foreign funding, as if this were the only way to growth, by whoever comes this money and for whatever final purpose they are paid. For eighteen years Italy's economic policy has been aimed at promoting exports to the detriment of the development of the internal market; for eighteen years Italian politics has been a prisoner of the dogmas of rigorism and the new fetishes of dictatorial neoliberalism and the globalism of poverty, which has enriched one percent of the population and impoverished the remaining 99 percent, generating inequalities, poverty and social and economic ruins. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since the euro came into force, Italy is the European country that has grown less, seven times less than the European average, with a burden of 73,605 euros on every Italian and 4,325 billion euros of non-growth of GDP, which does not measure happiness, but economic parameters. The internal market is almost asphyctic and unable to protect citizens, workers, families and businesses from events such as the US-China Customs War. Tax dumping and domiciliation in countries with tax advantages generates 20 billion euros of circumvention per year for Italy and about 160 billion for Europe. These are the effects of globalism that captured what was once the historical left of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The real and serious investments are difficult to arrive also because they are submerged by the billions of euros coming from speculative finance, from the derivatives that serve only to make a good figure in the short period and then multiply the tables of crisis in the long period because of the more frequent relocations and dismemberments of healthy companies, often real icons of the made in Italy. The directives imposed by the EU supinely transposed by Masochist governments, first of all the Bank recovery and resolution directive (BRRD) or bail-in, have put at risk the soundness of the banking system, already proven by the crisis of subprime, and plundered thousands of savers, forced the banks to devalue the credits transformed into non-performing loan (NPL), the deal of the century for the usual known, putting them at risk of wear and tear. According to a recent study by the Italian Autonomous Banking Federation (FABI), the banking union, 1.2 million small and medium-sized enterprises and families will lose their auction house, thanks also to some reforms made, without even being able to buy it back. This is the legacy of the previous governments of the competent fascinated by dictatorial neoliberalism and the market without rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the failures that we are struggling to repair. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] A year ago we were on a running train to a ravine; with great difficulty we were able to slow down its descent and even to reverse its direction, even if at the present time it is still moving slowly. It's understandable, given the heaviness of the same train. The important thing is that we rot in the right direction and do so thanks to the launch of the measures of the Government of change, such as the decree of dignity or the corrupt sweep. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Have you seen the CSM show? The magistrates, who should be a power of the state, gathered in secret to decide who was to be the chief prosecutor who was then to absolve some investigators of the CONSIP; we remember. Then there are the income of citizenship, 100 quota, the reduction of the power of the banks in the politics of this country, the choice of policies of environmental sustainability, placed finally to the level of those employment and social. The growth decree will help the Italian train to accelerate in the right direction. The growth decree does not wink at banks, but helps small savers cheated by unfaithful credit institutions, provides for quick reimbursements under 50,000 euros, provides for the extension of access to the fund for victims of missed payments also to professionals by debtor companies charged in criminal proceedings such as bankruptcy or misuse of credit. Senator Grassi has already responded to the fandom of privatization of the most precious of the common goods, such as water, with a masterly legal lesson given to the supporters of the Far West market, who wanted to privatise all the common goods. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With the growth decree companies will enjoy healthy and productive investments: I am talking about the extension of the super amortization for individuals with corporate income and for exhibitors and professionals who invest in new capital goods, the simplification of the Ires system, the reduction of rates, the birth of a new type of company, the simple investment company, which can only invest in unlisted start-ups, benefiting from the exemption of taxes on capital income. I am talking about the new home bonus for the construction or renovation of buildings up to 2021, the incentives to companies that are financed through the issuance of bonds, with the aim of supporting business development projects, support to the realization of technological and digital transformation projects by companies, the introduction of the concept of historical brand of national interest, which will allow companies made in Italy in crisis to be able to access state aid and that will prevent the closure of their plants and the sale of Italian brands abroad. I am talking about extending incentives for electric and hybrid vehicles also to motorcycles, mopeds and microcars. The growth decree has as its horizon not only business and investment, but also citizens and professionals. So the deductibility of the Imu will rise to 60 percent, the tax discounts for the return of the escaped brains will be extended to six years, the increase of the audience of professionals and the greater protection. Look, dear senators, Mr President, Norberto Bobbio, the greatest theorist of law, who left the most profound mark in the philosophical, legal and political culture, considered a master for generations of scholars, had grasped the sign of economic and social changes, when he focused on three principles of enlightenment at the basis of democratic constitutions such as ours, which we defended on 4 December: freedom, equality and fraternity. With the primacy of equality, because without it there are neither freedom nor fraternity. Inequality produces struggle for power and social hatred. The globalization of capital has created the globalization of poverty, it has created the cage constituted by the prescriptions imposed by the troika to enslave free peoples like Greece. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, in the immoral age where the morals of the lords and the morals of the flock are no longer opposed (for Hegel that of the lord and the servants, for Marx that of the oppressed and oppressors, for Nietzsche that of the winners and losers), but the morals confiscated by the liberal ideology, between the good of those who practice it and the evil of those who criticize it, in this unequal Europe we give hope to a great country like Italy, which must proudly claim its identity, without going to Europe with the hat in hand anymore. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u44	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u47	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as in other circumstances this time too, Parliament has not been able to do its work to the full. The decree-law under consideration was adopted on 4 April, then twenty days have passed and in the Council of Ministers there has been a second resolution with some additions to the original text. In the Chamber he remained in the Commission for three weeks, between quarrels and stumblings of the majority, until he assumed the physiognomy of the umpteenth omnibus decree, moving from the 52 initial articles to more than 100 articles of the final text. Once again we condemn this way of proceeding and remember here in this House the words spoken by the President of the Republic after the budget law, when he called on all political forces to respect the role and prerogatives of Parliament; a Parliament which, until proven otherwise, consists of two branches with equal rights and duties. A legislative procedure certainly cannot be said to be satisfactory if, at first reading, one of the two Chambers is called upon to ratify with confidence what the other, with great difficulty, approved. On the substance, a figure perfectly sums up the value of this measure: that 0.05 percent more than expected GDP, which squeals under the name of a measure that has been told for weeks as a turning point. Certainly growth is not done by Parliament or the Government, but by companies and their collaborators, but the Government and Parliament are called to remove obstacles against the possibility of growth for the companies themselves. In this respect, I note a sore point of the measure: I refer to Article 10, which harms small and medium-sized enterprises. On paper, the idea of giving an immediate discount to those who have an energy efficiency intervention, however, in the absence of a banking system that recognizes to the enterprises the tax credit matured with the tax, to pay the cost of the transactions will be the companies, in particular the medium and small ones, that do not have the liquidity necessary to cope with it. With amendments we had called for the abolition of such a measure or at least to cushion its impact, and we had also made other proposals to call for a postponement of the entry into force of sanctions for failure to apply the rules on e-invoicing. For the rest we are not convinced by the welfare approach that accompanies measures for municipalities at risk of economic disruption, those for Alitalia, the sudden change of rules on the management of Ilva. We are talking about a well of money provided without a plan that pushes the municipalities in difficulty to correct the route or that is decisive on the Alitalia issue. On Ilva, beyond merit, we are faced with a change of rules in the course of work and the usual lack of legal certainty, which is the main reason why many foreign investors stay away from Italy. On the Industry 4.0 Plan, we welcome the line correction to the budget law, with the partial re-introduction of the old measures: it is the implicit admission that everything that is done by others is not always to be thrown away, just as interventions for banks are not born to protect bankers, but savers and the stability of the system, since the measure brings several measures in this regard. (at 11:27 a.m.) (Follow Steger). It also welcomes the extension of the entry into force of the single register of bands, which remains little more than a gesture of attention to an important area of the third sector which requires bureaucratic simplicity and greater tax aid for the function of growth and social cohesion expressed in the territories. If territories are to be strengthened, the third sector needs to be strengthened and these cultural expressions need to be strengthened. I address my colleagues in the League in particular. To conclude, Mr President, this measure was presented to us as a key measure. We had looked forward to it, because a decree called growth, in a country where economic stagnation is the master, always deserves great respect and attention. In the text there are measures which, taken individually, are certainly positive but lack an overall vision, an overall strategy on the growth model. For this reason the individual measures have a "homeopathic" impact, i.e. they calm down but do not build the road. And then growth remains only the name. The truth is that we are about to vote yet another omnibus decree which is the fruit of the profound diversity of ideas, not to mention the great confusion, which hovers among the forces of majority. This government has been in office for more than a year, a year in which our Group has always urged you to put in place a clear and concrete policy for growth and development, the one that has failed under the budget law and that has exposed Italy to an infringement procedure. The income of citizenship has not given any boost to consumption and the confusion on employment centers is still very high. But the election campaign has been over for over a month. The last alibi in the eyes of the electorate and Parliament has therefore fallen. Yesterday's ISTAT data says the tax burden has increased. The Court of Auditors has well explained the risks of another increase in public debt. The truth is that you do not have a clear idea of where this country is to be taken, what its place must be in Europe and in the world. It is only one day to go forward, but this is not how one of the most important economies in the world is governed. For all these reasons, colleagues, the Autonomy Group will vote against this measure and therefore vote against the government's confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, today the Deputy Minister has given us an example, perhaps ideological, of the so-called Padan pragmatism, saying that it is perfectly normal for the measures to be examined only by one House. We do not, of course, in a critical spirit or because we are conservatives of the Constitution; the fact is that we absolutely cannot continue to resign ourselves, even if in a year this has become the rule, as, unfortunately, it has also shown in some way in previous legislation. The sense of bicameralism is very serious and has allowed this country, in times that we should perhaps regret, to discuss the measures not only in the formal respect of the two Chambers, giving each one really the opportunity to modify them and giving the oppositions and the majority the opportunity to offer their contribution. Frankly, we cannot accept this manner of being hasty, disrespectful and unconstitutional, which now pervades the work of this House and not even the way in which the Government relates to Parliament. This applies to the Senate as, of course, it can apply to the House. Here we have reached the extreme: we have already seen what has happened with the budget law and now we are faced with a measure which, in the relevant Commissions, has been discussed very few hours, and I come to the point. You call it decree-law growth, but let's be clear: I repeat that this is a set of norms - in 120 articles - micro or medium, muddy with each other, which you call "growth" in a purely propaganda spirit, but which will have an absolutely marginal influence on the possibility of recovery of the country. The point is always the same and we repeat it to you: the 120 articles of the measure contain a series of measures, some of which are also useful, but always marginal, while others very harmful - on which I will return - because they are the result of your way of governing, made of eternal mediation, a little here and a little there; once 20 percent to the 5 Stars, once 80 to the League - and tends to always be so - and I remind the same colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars. What is missing in this country - alas, for a long time - is a serious discussion of the development strategy, and that is the problem. But what's the point? The choices we make are always contingent: once it goes better, because the picture and the international conjuncture are more favorable and therefore allow the country to have more and make some better choice; then, however, when the conjuncture is less favorable, we continue to sail, but without having a clear idea of how the country can actually go on. In the decree-law growth I believe there is the symbol of all this. Beyond propaganda - and those who live in propaganda die, in the end, according to an inexorable law - in this debate I have not heard anyone from the majority, let alone the Government succeed in truly understanding the strategy with which to put back on track a hypothesis of growth and development for the country. Which model do we aim for? It is not an academic discussion and even the confrontation between majority and opposition would be healthy, in order to understand the strategic axis, programming and interventions, on what to focus and the possibilities of growth for the country. I told you and we've told you fifty times in all these years: what investment plan do we have in mind? Arrange a little here and a little there? A little light TAV and some special events with the Olympics? These become the recipe for everything, beyond the fact that they can be done and it's important to do them: it's fine, but they're all great special events. Or do we want to discuss an investment plan that means investing in the infrastructure that our country needs? Of the big cities we discussed before, and in Milan maybe it's a bit better: we need to invest in our metropolitan areas, sustainable mobility systems, innovation and technologies. Precisely because it is also fundamental in the fight against climate change, we need to finally give life to what we called the green New Deal for the country, giving the opportunity to focus on the vocations, resources and needs of our territory. In a country like ours, what is the model on which resources can be concentrated? This debate is not there, however, because there is an obsession with propaganda. Ruled for a year - I would like to remind you - and in addition to the income of citizenship and quota 100, whose effects we shall see, a measure has not been issued, if not of any scope, and you have done nothing but disassemble - as has been done on the unblocking works - the code of contracts and the rules on transparency and legality, in the illusion that something happened and also resumed contracts. But what is a provision? It is a clear choice, with a precise indication, that gives the opportunity to restart the country itself. On the other hand, you say as well: with these measures, I decree growth and unblocking, in the end - I address my colleague Errani - what will be achieved? 0.1 percent growth: you are talking about this and you have somehow certified it yourself. Beyond propaganda, therefore, there remains the misery of a series of small measures which will have an absolutely marginal role and impact. In the macroeconomic framework and in the deflation system in which we are, which in recent years has done nothing but devalue work and create problems of internal devaluation, once again put in place measures which, perhaps on the supply side, are small recipes, but practically nothing on the demand side. Then there are some choices within the growth decree that are very serious. I repeat here: the choice made in Article 24 on the privatisation of water - it is useless to go around it - is clear and precise. I'll tell my colleagues about the 5 Stars: do you want to protect the water? Very well, then instead of making constitutional changes of mere propaganda for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the common goods are included in the Constitution: this is the great reform that the country needs, which also means a clear economic axis. On health - and I close because I want to go back - you say that you are close to people and their problems, but with Article 14 you do the favor of tax relief to large insurance policies: this means to move our country only and only to the second pillar, killing the National Health System. We have 11 million people who have given up their treatment and we want to continue in this way. So, net of your propaganda - I repeat: those of propaganda who live, of propaganda eventually die, because it is an inexorable law - you have no idea of the future and of the development of this country. Surrender together a series of measures, depending on who touches, in balance, but the country unfortunately, once again, will notice too late. He'll see it and he'll pay for it. That is why we shall be voting against confidence in this decree-law. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u53	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, what sadness, friends of the League, friends of the 5 Star Movement, on the occasion of a vote of confidence and a measure on growth that should so much affect the country, look at the benches of the government desolately empty. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I believe that this is yet another disrespect for Parliament and, specifically, for the Senate of the Republic. And I do not want the Undersecretary of the Presidency of the Council, who is here to allow at least formally to say that the Government is present. I believe that a Parliamentary Chamber, which has not even been able to discuss in the Commissions, as has been the case for a year now, the merit and content of the decree-laws, would at least claim to be heard by the Government. And, on the other hand, I repeat that there is not a single Minister present. Not only do we want to upset the substance of democracy, preventing the Commissions from working, but we no longer respect the rules of a behavioral ethics that should inspire the correctness of those who believe in democracy. It's really sad. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is also sadness that we are going to comment on the decree-law. Growth: what a beautiful word. What a beautiful word that growth that the country would need so much and that, instead, is resolved in an omnibus decree, which I allow to define of recovery and mending. You've recovered some rule from the previous legislature. You have drawn - and you have also done well - to the super depreciation of the previous government. You've mended a few measures over the last few months, trying to figure out some aspects. For God's sake, these are also positive footage, small adjustments that are certainly appropriate. But growth, ladies and gentlemen, is and should be something else. Just consult the local newspapers, the territories in which we live, the national press and the specialized one to see that the headlines do not talk about growth. They write that it is about to close the ILVA in Taranto, thanks to this decree growth. Someone's mental fitness and justiceism are leading to the closure of one of the most important national businesses. Moreover, the damage will not only be the closure of the ILVA, but also the definitive loss of the face of the country in the face of foreign investors: the agreements made by a Government with companies are quietly denied after a few years by another Government. That is not serious, ladies and gentlemen. Pursue a facade justiceism, which suits you in the electoral campaign, for which you are ready to make the country lose face, to shut down a factory, to make us consider banners by foreign investors. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. It's not just a newspaper, maybe that of Confindustria, but even the local newspapers say it, they all say it: Confindustria, enterprises, trade associations, small entrepreneurs. Is that how you want to grow? I noticed that in the growth decree you took care of the votive lamps of the cemeteries; I noticed many interesting things, certainly useful. I don't want to be ironic and I prefer to focus on content. We tried to help you, as always. Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to Article 10 on ecobonus, in the Committees on Finance and Industry, I told the President of the Industry Commission that, if there was a rule that could perhaps be an incentive for growth, it was Article 10 on ecobonus, which allows the final consumer to ask the company directly to pay him the tax credit that the State grants. This is a fine measure, because that citizen will probably be able to spend something more, knowing that he can receive an immediate benefit. However, ladies and gentlemen, even in this case you have not been able to act well: if you wanted that article to be implemented, it was necessary at least to allow the tax credit to be transferred not only to a supplier, who most probably has no interest in recovering it, but also to those financial companies that deal with the transfer of credits, to the banks. We, the Brothers of Italy, who always try to propose more than to demolish, have tabled amendments - obviously not discussed: the practice now is to no longer discuss anything in the Commission, because the Government does everything - and an agenda. We have suggested at least using the trusts or cash deposits and loans, to give guarantees, through credit institutions, to suppliers and small craft businesses, so that they can pay the tax credit having the necessary liquidity. This has not been the case, and as a result, we are in a situation in which we are only in danger of benefiting those large businesses that have a greater financial capacity, and of creating problems for those artisans and small businesses that do not find finance in order to be able to anticipate that tax credit to the consumer. You have therefore damaged the small and medium-sized Italian company. It's a lot of growth! I can go on. Article 23 is that of the NPL, that of the lawyer in his underwear who spoke with our President of the Council, and I say "our" because he is from the whole country. Senator Lannotti said that earlier, but I would like Mr Lannotti, whom I think, to be able to translate into concrete acts and not only into good intentions, since he is in the majority of his positions. Brothers of Italy, through a bill at the first signature of Senator Urso, has clearly laid down the conditions to recover from the heavy situation in which there are more than 1.2 million Italians who today, thanks to the problem of the NPLs, their credits that have been sold to multinational companies, are blocked, kept under their heads and cannot bring growth and utility to the rest of the population and economy. Well, what does the government do about the NPL change? What do your five-star friends do, Senator Lannotti? In Article 23 they make a rule that benefits the international multi-financial ones that profit on the cession of the NPLs. You did not worry about the Italian debtor, the poor craftsman who is being harassed by this situation, but you were concerned about the multinational investing in NPLs. This is reality, it is not political considerations: they are objective considerations. I'm trying to finish so I don't waste any more time. Brothers of Italy the road has always indicated it to you. Brothers of Italy is consistent with the confidence in the country and, therefore, had told you clearly, if we want to talk about growth, to have the courage to give concrete answers. If we want to go to Europe and raise our voices - as we agree to do, because Brussels does not have to dictate the agenda - we must have done our homework. Growth means flat tax. Our proposal for a law has been in Parliament for a year. So let's make the flat tax and the investments, but it seems to me that on the TAV, on the TAP, on the TRIV (drills and oil pipelines) answers do not arrive. Do you really think you can go to Europe with your head high and claim the certain reasons of our country at a time when you have not been able to give answers on these great issues for over a year? In the light of all this, I want to mean the position of Brothers of Italy and ask the President for a further minute in order to be able to conclude. The position of Brothers of Italy, with the objective and strong criticisms that it addresses to this Government, still wants to open a credit to it, also because we know that in these weeks negotiations are taking place between our country and Europe. We do not want Europe to see an absolutely abandoned majority and, therefore, we will not vote against and abstain on this measure. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , with yet another act of confidence in a majority that we strongly urge, however, to change radically. Friends of the League, we have a joint programme, and we did so in the election campaign a year ago: try to achieve it, otherwise we will give the voters the floor and return to these parliamentary classrooms with a clear, defined and concrete programme. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u56	BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, originally it was the growth and investment decree, then there was only the growth decree, without investment because, according to the technical report, you noticed that with your measures, if it is okay, Italy will grow by 0.1% in 2019. What is in this decree-law and that shines is exactly what is missing: specifically, what shines in this provision clearly says the government counter that is not there. However, I want to remain on the subject, Mr President. Our concern is not just for what is not in terms of specific measures. Our concern is that there is no vision, no perspective. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u57	Colleagues, I invite you to take your place, leaving my colleague Bellanova free to carry out her speech fully.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u58	Please, Senator. BELLANOVA (PD). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, there is no vision, no perspective: there is a emptiness of thought that is how much worse a government can realize. With a growth decree, in fact, one would expect to see how the Government intends to address the problem of the Mezzogiorno, how to recover the delays and gap between the North and the South of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We gave you some advice, but you didn't want to listen to them and so, in addition to cutting the tax credit for research and innovation in the Mezzogiorno, there are the resources that a sleeping minister had to snatch at night in the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have invited you to stop chatting about the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and to make a serious intervention, the cutting of the IRAP for businesses and workers. You said no; you said you didn't agree. You said that with the growth decree you invest. We understood that now you could tell us how to stimulate consumption, because growth must lead to consumption, consumption feeds production and production determines wealth, which can be distributed. Instead, you plan to distribute wealth by producing poverty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We expected your commitment on how to support exports, wages and how to create jobs. Instead, you realize what is the worst given for two years to this side: the confidence of businesses and consumers says that we have gone from 100.2 to 99.1 percent. You'd have to question yourself a little, if you weren't really ashamed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We expected growth from this measure, but what does growth mean? A need for work and qualified work. If you have decided not to listen to the Democratic Party, at least you had to listen to the OECD, which has been saying for months that children attending primary school today will do a job that we cannot imagine now. A serious government then what should it do? It should invest in training new skills. Instead, you cut the resources to training, cut the 4.0 training. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You stand out from modernity and growth. We would have liked to have generously defined this provision as a decree "correct errors," but this is not possible either, because you have taken parts and pieces of initiatives, proposals and solutions made by our Government: Patent box, New Sabatini, reductions for the recruitment of young people in the Mezzogiorno. You just covered the reductions between January and April because, when you were making the budget law, you ignored that you had to cover what you were promising to companies. In the Commission, however, you rejected our agenda for the extension of recruitment for the whole of 2020: in your growth intervention, the extension is six months. Of course, you have restored the super depreciation 4.0, but also in this case you have copied, getting worse, because you have gone from 40 to 30 percent and you have put a roof of 2.5 million euros. Can you really imagine that within six months technological innovations are made and that six months are enough to imagine, invest and make innovations? Don't you wonder how that's possible? Talk to some chem, pharmaceutical or automotive entrepreneurs and they will explain to you that yours is a manifest standard, because innovations need to be supported over time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then comes Di Maio, who says to let go of the growth and now proclaims that he wants to cut the cost of labor. Ohibo, it comes to think: very well, they will take the proposal of the Democratic Party, with the cut of the tax wedge, but it is not so. You cut the INAIL. Cut off health and safety. Question yourselves, you who speak of the dignity of work, you who do not know the work, as well as the dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Question yourselves! The dead at work - please do not call them white deaths, because this washes your conscience: they died the result of disengagement, lack of training, lack of security and competition on costs [[Applause from the PD Group]] - in 2018 increased by 10.8 percent, compared to 2017, occupational diseases increased by 2.5 percent. These are data provided by INAIL and not by my Group. Right now, you decide to make those cuts. I would like to give you another piece of information, since you distribute the savings of 100 and the income of citizenship. That carpenter who, at the age of sixty-seven, was not to stand and not to stand on scaffolding, and who was so tender in the past years, is still on scaffolding [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because the measure on quota 100 does not cover that worker. However, do not be ashamed of this and use those savings to further cut health and safety at work. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We would have liked to talk to you, given that the decree-law under consideration, to be precise, as well as measures for economic growth, also includes measures for the resolution of specific crisis situations. But when? You have settled in the comfortable ministerial armchairs, but the uncomfortable chairs of the crisis tables escape them! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Don't call the parties to confront the ministries. As for Alitalia, in December you said that the industrial plan was ready and the solution would come, but now we are yet another extension of the loan, for 900 million euros, of which 650 million increase on Italian citizens. Tell the Italians that you will find in bills, under system charges, 650 million euros, that you are using for your inability on Alitalia. Other than reducing taxes: you're the tax government! Where are in the decree-law the search of the partner and the industrial plan: there is a generic authorization to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) to subscribe quotas of the new Alitalia, for a maximum of 200 million euros. With interest accrued on the loan you want to fly a large company and pay the salaries of over 12,000 people. You should organize a training course to explain to entrepreneurs how you do, with only 200 million euros, to keep a company of that size standing; otherwise you should pose the problem of how ignorant you are in matters and how much you do not want to learn. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Sancite therefore the failure of a great infrastructure. My colleagues have already spoken about Ilva, but I mean, Mr President, that an agreement signed by this Government in September is being called into question. Before you boasted that you had increased employment from 10,000 to 10,800 workers, but you did not raise the problem that more workers increase and more obviously has to increase production: otherwise a company how can it hold up? And not only did you not wonder this, but today, with your provision, you cancel an immunity that is not there and prevent the implementation of the AIA plan. I want to say this here what it means: your choice means calling into question investments of five billion. Four hundred million are the resources that you put in the growth decree, five billion those that you blow by removing resources to the creditors, to the environmentalization of the city of Taranto and to the jobs. I would like to say one more thing, Mr President, if I may. You introduced yourself to Taranto in five-six ministers with a manifesto. Here the agreements are not respected and this means that you are doing harm not only to the city of Taranto, but to the entire country and above all you are undermining its credibility, because you are saying to investors: "Go elsewhere." [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Wait a minute, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u59	She's already gone over a minute, but finish, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u60	BELLANOVA (PD). I've been interrupted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. BELLANOVA (PD). The attention of this Government is demonstrated by the government's benches, but also by how the measure was followed in the Commission: one and a half days of work, three representatives of the Government, none for the Ministry of Economic Development; three representatives of the Government, one for the general debate... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u61	He's not capable of concluding, so move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u62	Mr Laus (PD). He's gotta catch up! BELLANOVA (PD). Wait, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is two minutes beyond the prescribed time: I do not think it is appropriate to protest. BELLANOVA (PD). My group, proudly, will vote no to this measure, because you are not only incapable but also dangerous. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u63	It is the respect that everyone owes to the assigned time, with an understandable margin of extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u66	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully understand the anger and attacks of opposition to the Government, especially by colleagues from the Democratic Party, who have long ruled this country in recent years. The electoral results of the Europeans were very disappointing to them, much less for the government forces, almost unique case in Europe. Governance is very difficult, especially in the current international economic context; yet, the forces of this Government have obtained more than 50% of the consent of Italian citizens. Get over it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have heard many criticisms of the oppositions, but very general, aimed at the general economic situation of Italy and Europe more than at the contents of this decree-law and therefore forgive me, but these criticisms leave the time they find; they risk representing an empty and useless ritual, an outlet of those who have transformed their frustration into anger. The oppositions probably think they have the magic wand to solve the problems of the Italian economy and the heavy public debt. We do not have this presumption, but we are convinced that the decrees unblock yards and growth contain many useful measures to the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Forgive me another consideration: if you really had miracle recipes, why didn't you apply them when you were in the government? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Senator Begin's comments.]] You have had six years to launch them; you have had many opportunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u67	Let the surgery be carried out safely. Please address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u68	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Members of the Democratic Party, President, have had many opportunities, with the Governments Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri and have wasted them, have failed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And look, we don't say that. The members of the League and Movimento 5 Star Groups don't say that. This was sanctioned by the Italians with the vote of March 4, 2018 and confirmed by the vote of May 26, 2019, a month ago. With humility but determination, we have a duty to move forward. We will move on as long as we have the confidence of Italian citizens. To claim that we have increased the tax burden is simply ridiculous. We have not adopted a single rule that has increased the tax burden. In fact, you have not been able to mention one in your many invectives: such a rule does not exist, because it is a falsehood. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] There has been, simply, a greater emergence of tax evasion, of undeclared work, of VAT, and this is a good thing for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This decree-law contains many positive measures, useful to local authorities, to the economy, to our businesses, to the world of work, ultimately to our country. We fully agree with them: measures for growth, simplifications, extensions and tax concessions, measures for relaunching private investment. Then there are rules for the protection of savers cheated and affected by bank failures. Rules are introduced for quick reimbursements under EUR 50,000, which have been loudly asked of us by the committees, with which we have a daily dialogue, and to which we have never denied a meeting, unlike the Governments of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The audience has been expanded for those who will have access to the savings compensation fund, loosening the income and wealth stakes for their right. I remember the billion and a half allocated by our government against the wretched 150 million allocated by the Democratic Party. That is the difference between the Democratic Party and us, between those who have abandoned the conned citizens and those who have protected them and will continue to do so. So, dear colleague Renzi, we do not accept lessons from you! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Then there are numerous interventions in favour of local authorities. They have already been mentioned and I do not want to quote them again, but I want to reaffirm a point here, on behalf of the League Group, which is made above all of citizens who have had the responsibility to administer their own municipalities, as mayors, as city councilors and as city councillors, who know the daily reality of our administrators. Attention to the needs of municipalities for us means protecting the needs of communities, of citizens who have the right to adequate and efficient services. It means, moreover, work with fast contracts, immediately cantierabile and circulation of money that creates work and is a boost to consumption. The governments of the Democratic Party massacred the local authorities, humiliated them. We, on the other hand, proudly claim all measures in favour of our local administrations and do not accept lessons from anyone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Therefore, measures for growth, fiscal simplifications, relaunching investment: this is the right direction, which must follow, of course, a profound fiscal revolution, which passes from less taxes, more competitiveness and, therefore, more work. The European Commission is asking us to reduce the debt, which is too high. But Italy cannot be asked to increase the tax levy. Italy cannot still be asked to adopt unpromotable linear cuts in public spending. We've already given. This is the path of the Governments of the recent past; a path of Governments that have failed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Debt has continued to rise and our economy has become increasingly less competitive, burning thousands of companies and jobs. Make up your minds. We will never be complicit in those who want to impose taxes, unemployment, despair and poverty on us. This government still has the confidence of Parliament. He has the confidence of the citizens who, even recently, during the European elections on 26 May, awarded the League of Matteo Salvini, who, with his courage and determination, gave hope to many Italian citizens. Make a big voice here. You have the right. It is the exercise of democracy, but the consensus outside this Palace you have lost it and you have not yet regained it. This decree-law is useful to the country, to the citizens and to our economy. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of the decree of growth and confidence in the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u71	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am sorry to note the almost total absence of the Government during the discussion of a decree-law considered so important, effective and efficient. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am convinced that the only thing that will grow with this decree-law is the economic difficulty of our companies and, then, we will see what the Movimento 5 Stars had hoped for: this decrease - which I consider unhappy - will still cause damage to our economy. Mr President, I have been and have been an entrepreneur for over forty years in different sectors and I would not like to give advice because the government is not there and would not listen to them either, but I am making comments. Businesses in order to grow need trust and respect, and not what is an important part of the Government that opposes them and considers entrepreneurs of dishonests, scammers and evaders. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Businesses in order to grow need finance from banks, which in their deposits have 3,000 billion savings of citizens and which, instead of giving them to businesses, especially to medium and small ones, use them for speculative finance or give them only to some particular friend. Companies in order to grow need a fair and collaborative tax and that, in case of verification, does not access as in the far west (it happened to me personally). It is also necessary that the burden of proof, in the event of litigation, be borne by the tax authorities and not - as now - by the taxpayer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, businesses in order to grow need effective and efficient civil justice for them to decide the dispute in a maximum of six months and not, as happened to me with an important client who did not pay a large amount, on which I had already paid taxes years ago, of a postponement of the case (in my case to 20 April 2020). This is unacceptable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Companies to grow need a collaborative union, first with companies and then with workers. Businesses to grow, if they have a dishonest or idle employee and have unfavorable evidence, can and must fire him and must not summarize him after two or three years because the judges at 99.9 percent give work to this dishonest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Businesses to grow up must be able to cash in real money state credits and not with Monopoly money (we made chickens laugh!). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, businesses need global taxation of no more than 25% to grow. Let me give an example that I believe that even the Movimento 5 Stars will understand: if a company earns 100,000 euros at the end of the year, it has already paid 70,000 for excise duties on fuels, energy charges, waste tax, contributions, non-taxable expenses (there is an exterminated list) and IMU concessions. Of 100,000 euros of income, 43 percent of taxes are paid. If you want to distribute them to your partners, you pay an additional 27 percent. We therefore have effective taxation of more than 70%. I don't say it, but the CGIA of Mestre and all the associations. The World Bank has certified that we pay over 65% against a European average of 43%. AIROLA (M5S). I don't understand. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I know you don't understand. That is the problem of Italy. I see Minister Toninelli, the king of misunderstandings. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u72	Talk to the president.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u73	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Minister Toninelli could go and sit in the government desks instead of being a pasdaran. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on you to sit where you consider it most appropriate. Come on, partner, keep going. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Businesses to grow do not need Toninelli but infrastructure, they need to know - as others have said - whether or not they will make the TAV, whether they will make the eaves, if they will make the third pass, because companies cannot pay 15% more logistics than other countries. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have the luck - Toninelli doesn't know - of having a unique logistics platform in the world. Then we should fund ports and build highways, not revoke concessions. We must have a rule of law: this applies to the company Autostrade, it applies to ILVA and it applies to everyone. Trump's reform has started and has been a resounding success because it has removed taxes from the rich - remember that - and from large companies, forcing them, after removing 40% of taxes, to give 20% to their employees as a higher salary. This is a way of growing up. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Putin made the flat tax on all incomes and you only want to do it for those below 65,000 euros, which in fact are already subject to a rate of 27 percent? Totò would say: "But do me pleasure!" I would also like to say something else, Mr President: a company to grow up cannot necessarily have a tax consultant, a worker consultant, a civil lawyer, a criminal lawyer, an administrative adviser, a security consultant, a garbage consultant and a privacy lawyer. But how does a small and medium-sized company do that? Do you realize that? Do you live in companies or not? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In order to grow a business that exports, Mr President, it needs to have a government that has a unique foreign policy and that is friendly with as many countries as possible to work economically. Not like this government, which is not there, which has quarreled with Europe and the whole world: with Africa, with Germany, with France, with Spain and yesterday also with Holland. We need a government that favours exports, not that it blocks them. A tourist or food business, which are now in the throes, to grow they need to find waiters, cooks and clerks, who today do not find because your citizenship income has created and increased those who do not want to work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A traditional shopkeeper, in a country or in the center of a city, not to grow, but to survive, should have - he does - an income of dignity, because he has consumed in recent years all the assets that he has accumulated in the last thirty years and keeps open only for not being ashamed to close miserably and to send home those two or three employees he has. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He should have, Mr President, services, security, enlightenment and tolerance by law enforcement, as law enforcement agencies have tolerance over the abusers who compete and do whatever they want. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In order to grow a company, which needs business cars for example, it must be able to amortize 100% of their cost, as in all Europe, and not 40% as here. Can not a company, to grow, spend 700 euros to go by plane from Genoa to Rome; can not pay twice the energy, can not pay the triple of the waste compared to the other European countries, can not have double the contributions. A company that wants to grow cannot have to go, not to close, in Austria, Slovenia, Bulgaria or Albania, in countries that until a few years ago were desperate and today are attractive for our companies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A seaside enterprise to grow must not have the drama of the Bolkestein directive, which you promised to take away and which instead is still standing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, not only companies, but the whole of Italy needs a centre-right government to grow; absurdly it would need a central-left government, but never and never can it have an irreconclusive, powerless and ignorant government like this yellow-green hug. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u76	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to thank my colleague, Mr Montani, Mr Girotto and Mr Bagnai, and all the senators of the Commissions 6a and 10a, for their majority and opposition, because, although in a limited area of discernment, evaluation and voting on the agendas, there has been a very cooperative climate in the Commission. I must then give the Government an earful to give more room to this branch of Parliament because, in a collaborative climate, it can help the measures. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Vitali]] The decree-law under consideration is the first measure of what we define the second and new phase of interventions provided for by this majority and follows equally significant actions. I therefore greet with great satisfaction and renewed enthusiasm this further step forward that we take. The comparison between the allies is positive, even when it is lit: the important thing is that our compass is the welfare of the community, support for our producers and the weakest sections of the population. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I open and close a parenthesis quickly, because there was a statement from a "ghost" senator who only shows up when there are cameras about ArcelorMittal S.A.. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In fact it is good to know that ArcelorMittal is a temporary manager, so it has no power to close the company. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is good to know that our political strength has been the one that has found the right balance between the right to production and the right to health. I close the parenthesis because I believe that then at the end of the session the Turkish Senator will touch the theme Ilva. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This government is marked by the desire to turn the page and Government of change is certainly not a self-celebrative definition but the realization of a request coming from the electorate, from a country that was tired and vexed by policies that you have put in place in recent years. You call us incompetent and clumsy, these are just some of the insults and slogans that you adopted by the opposition, but that I see lost; I see an opposition still sadly in search of author, an opposition that in doing so does not offend the MPs of the 5 Star Movement (it would be really little thing), but it offends and ridicules those who in March 2018 sent a precise and unequivocal signal to all of you, to the old political class, what today fortunately represents the opposition. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Then I return to the competence and value that you attribute to this term. I will turn to the merits of the measure because I have to shock many things, given that there are many provisions that meet the needs of workers, businesses and local authorities, as there are many measures that aim at growth, the revival of investment and the protection of Made in Italy. The measure brings a progressive reduction of the IRES rate and an increase in the deductible percentage of the IMU: to understand us, in 2023 the IMU on the sheds, that ugly and unpathetic tax, will fail really. The procedures for the use of the patent box are simplified, the facilities for return workers and teachers and researchers who come back to Italy (and I would say it was time). The special section of the SME Guarantee Fund is created; the deductions for the anti-seismic reinforcement are extended, the incentives for energy efficiency interventions and the reduction of seismic risk are simplified; more stringent rules are put in place that counter the escape in the tourism sector; the site is created \incentivi.gov.it, which is the telematic platform of the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) in support of the industrial policy of our country; for the first home a fund of 100,000 euros has been created to give state guarantee and this is finally a real help for young couples who want to take home. The benefits of the new Sabatini have been extended to the medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises, extending the audience of companies that can benefit from the credit fund to companies that are the victims of non-payment. Professionals are also guaranteed access to subsidised funding, as well as research centres and support for projects involving a much more efficient and sustainable use of resources. In other words, we are talking about circular economy. The expansion contract is introduced experimentally, but I do not want to forget the EUR 500 million that the majority of the municipalities have allocated to sustainable development and the strong drive to the local economy because we encourage the reopening and expansion of commercial, craft and service activities. As for Made in Italy - I'm out of breath, too many good things we're doing - I remember the definition of historical brand of national interest, the establishment in the special register at the Italian patent and trademark office, the fund for the protection of historical brands. I believe that opposition must also agree that these are the rules and provisions that we have been waiting for for a long time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This measure is strongly desired by this majority and by this Executive and will have beneficial effects on the socio-economic system of the country, as well as other measures already taken begin to show their first effects. Of course there's still so much to do. I believe that every Member of Parliament who makes up this majority constantly feels on his shoulders the responsibility that the Italian citizens have entrusted to us. I want, however, to return for a moment to the insults of those who until yesterday blocked a country and I want to return to the definition of competence, because calling themselves competent, dear colleagues of the opposition, does not absolve you from what you have done in past years; on the contrary, I think it is the best way to condemn your work, with the aggregation of awareness, because you knew what you were doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then there would be to explain the limit of this competence that is, where the competence can reach. We are cowards and therefore we ask ourselves this, but we also ask ourselves, for example, whether some Members of the Democratic Party are responsible for choosing and appointing judges. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't know what to say. You could say that it has always been done, you could say that it is normal and I say no, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not normal, and if it is normal for you it is not for us who mean the public service differently. As far as we are concerned, the right term to use in these cases is not "competence" but "prevarication" of powers and I hope at least that it assaults you a minimum of feeling of shame. I claim an abysmal difference between us and some of you (fortunately only some of you). The measure of this distance is given precisely by the way of understanding and safeguarding the sacredness and prestige of the institutions. The last example in order of time was the attempt to plagiarize CSM and the judiciary. "Lottizzare" is not the case: it's a desired term and I don't think I have to explain it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They are very serious actions, carried out in contempt of the institutions and they take into account how respect for them is an alien feeling for you. People know, people have learned to know you, even though I have to admit that you are still able to surprise [[Comments from the PD Group]] : It surprises the attachment to power, surprises the desire to condition, surprises the pathological enslavement to methods and logics that are not transparent. But we're the cowards, and you're the competent ones. I shall conclude, Mr President, by expressing my satisfaction with the measures contained in the so-called growth decree that this House is preparing to approve. I was just saying we're busy. We are waiting for a period not easy also for the international situation: there are the duties between China and the USA, there is Brexit and a series of problems, but after the excellent budget law, the dossier on the way to silk, the unblocking works and many other actions that today join this measure for the growth, I am convinced that all together, we colleagues of the majority, we are giving a great help to raise the country. That's why we're hanging in there. We leave the opposition still four years (we hope even more) who has reduced to shreds a country and we move forward in the exclusive interest of Italians. Therefore, with pride and conviction, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group to trust the Government. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u78	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u79	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, this decree-law is not as bad as the oppositions have described, especially for the articles that concern my Commission, but there are some that cause a wound: Articles 14, 24 and 46. The latter concerns Ilva, for which, unlike what has been said, the exemption of criminal liability for carrying out the environmental plan remains. As a colleague has said, it is true that there is no possibility for the manager to close down, but it must be borne in mind that this responsibility meets a need for the protection of the public interest. However, I would like to dwell on the famous Article 24. As a result of the need to proceed with the liquidation of the EIPLI, this, also for Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, could certainly have been carried out with an entity other than a company of capital under private law, even if of total public participation, i.e. a SpA. It could also have been identified as one of the existing bodies. Other figures could certainly have been used, such as the establishment of a special company or a consortium between the public bodies concerned or the bodies could have made a convention or a programme agreement. With the SpA it has chosen not to burden the finance of the State, but this is a very clear political choice that clashes, not with the technicalism of the referendum of 2011 (which, as we all know, was lacking on this point), but on the popular will undoubtedly expressed in that same referendum. What's going on? This article has been amended in the House while we have not been able to work here: I have tabled amendments, but there has been no time or way, because bicameralism is denied. The ratio of this amendment is to avoid the possibility of a private capital participation in the founding company, but it does not veto a change in the statutes and above all does not place an absolute constraint of inalienability to the private individuals of the capital of the company, which can sell both for practical reasons but above all in the phase of bankruptcy, since the company participated is certainly subject to the legislative provisions of the bankruptcy and those of the extraordinary administration, there is a concrete risk that private individuals can become part of the assets of this institution. So, for this reason, I would have voted to abstain on the decree-law, but not on trust. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u80	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u81	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1354, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 34, 30 April 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Faith is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Faith. GIRO, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 13:09 a.m. - at 11:00 a.m.) - 13.10 a.m. - 12.30 p.m. - 13:13 -). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bongiorno, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottini, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calderoli, Countryside, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Croatti, Crucioli D'Angelo, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista Faggi, Fede, Fedenu, Ferrara, Ferrara, Ferrero, Floriamo, Frégolenti, Frégolenti, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista Faggi, Fede, Ferrara, PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1354, of conversion into law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 34, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Majority 132 Favorable 158 Contrari 104 Absent 15]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 34.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u84	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, there is a picture - today - in all the newspapers that I cannot stop thinking about, which we must not stop thinking about. He tells a true and terrible story, which concerns us and calls us into question: a father and a daughter, embraced forever. Dead while trying to cross a river too large and dangerous, on the border between Mexico and the United States of America, to be able to bypass and pass the wall wanted to prevent Latin migrants from reaching the North, the border and the "American dream." An image that tells the love of a father and a daughter, but also the ferocity of those who are stronger against those who are weaker. I'm thinking about that father. I think if it was up to me, in his place, to seek courage, to take up my daughter to give her a future, away from violence and despair. Try to cross the high water, talk to reassure it, keep it higher than the waves, crawl it with my shirt so you don't lose it. Tighten her up so she won't leave. This is Oscar, this is Angy Valeria, only 23 months old. I think the Senate should keep their names impressed, because they symbolize a thousand others, dead to escape from wars, torture and hunger. Those migrants, Mr President, are us and their hopes, their needs, the desire to work and realize are the spirit that moves every democracy. The walls are instead the denial of democracy, the emblem of authoritarian regimes. There was a time when we celebrated the fall of the wall that divided Europe between democracy and tyranny. So, in 89, there were 15 of them. Today there are seventy walls in the world, but they will not be able to stop those who, like us, live on this planet and claim, like us, democracy and rights. The walls are powered by hate rhetoric that criminalizes the weakest to leave the strong undisturbed and puts the last against the penultimate. But it is a deception, because security is built only by widening democracy and rights. So let us do it, colleagues: let us no longer let a border mean the death of a father, a mother, a daughter and, with them, of all humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u87	Parent (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in this House to bring to the attention the situation in Rome, our capital, which has been invaded by waste for days. [[Comments of Senator Piarulli.]] Of course! All of us, citizens, tourists and people who come to Rome for work, are forced to do gincana in the garbage, which emanates a truly unbearable stench. There are seagulls and, thank God, the vice-premier Salvini is also aware, who from the top of his terrace has defined them very large, as pterodactyls; that he tries to put in the dumpsters a bag, as the order of the doctors of Rome, who has launched the alarm: "Citizens, put on gloves when you put the bag in the dumpster." Minister Grillo said yesterday that there is no epidemiological risk. Except that I think it's confusing risk and risk factor, because the heat of these weeks is definitely a risk factor, but then, obviously, it doesn't walk and doesn't live the city. Then I move an appeal to all of you, colleagues and colleagues, because, especially from the benches of the majority and in particular of the 5 Stars, I have heard of morality: we all go to the city together, we share the inconveniences of the citizens and we do not look at the square from the palace, but the palace from the square. I have heard so many rhetorical words that do not correspond to the lives of citizens. Enough with Italy at two speeds, because in the same days when the North, Milan in particular (and we are all happy for our Italy), gets the Olympics, Rome is invaded by garbage. So you don't save anyone, you don't save Italy. A few things have happened these days. The Mayor can accept suggestions and help: there is the letter of the Presidents of the Municipalities and there is the meeting of the Mayor Raggi with the President of AMA. The Mayor changed six boards of directors in three years. Then there is the alarm launched by the Lazio Region at ASL. We can go on, to find solutions and close the waste cycle, in Rome as in all European capitals. I close by saying that the real crisis in politics lies in our inability to indignant ourselves. Citizens and citizens know that, they are doing exposure, class action and, demonstrations, sending films and photos to the media, but that is not enough. The Roman citizens, for the love they have of their own city and also pay a very high TARI, do not deserve this wound. I will be at their side, along with other colleagues, to find ways to channel this indignation: class action, civil participation and all that can be needed for Rome to regain the dignity of Eternal City. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u90	TURCO (M5S). Mr President, we must speak today on the matter of the Ilva plant. Many colleagues today criticized the government's decision to eliminate criminal immunity. Oppositions have raised the risk of closure of the establishment, forgetting however that the citizens of Taranto enjoy the right to health, as well as the right to work. It is good to point out, as Mr Castaldi has said, that ArcelorMittal has no power to close the factory, because he is a simple temporary manager under a lease which expires in 2021. We have restored a constitutional right that we had perhaps forgotten in Taranto, namely that the law is the same for everyone, and we have found the right balance between the right to health and the right to production. In this respect, I would like to point out that until yesterday, criminal immunity, which had been introduced by the previous Government, was all-embracing on the environment, health and safety at work. Today, with the approval of the growth decree, criminal immunity has been reduced only to the environmental issue. We have therefore removed criminal immunity from 6 September with regard to public health and safety. I would not want ArcelorMittal, with the announcement of the closure of the plant, to blackmail the Government on other aspects, namely those related to public security, to ask for a discount on rents or the final selling price. I would not like ArcelorMittal to pursue the purpose of simply acquiring the orders and customers of the former Ilva plant. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u93	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to bring to the attention of this House what we have learned this morning about an operation by the Carabinieri which took place in my Province, in Reggio Emilia and in Reggio Emilia, and which also involves other areas of Italy. Eighteen people were subjected to protective measures and eight arrested, including the mayor PD of Bibbiano, a town near Reggio Emilia, Andrea Carletti, re-elected a few weeks ago to the second term. The arrests involved politicians, doctors, social workers, freelancers, psychologists and psychotherapists of an ONLUS in Turin. It has been defined as an illegal and profitable system of child management: false certifications to rip children away from families in difficulty and entrust them to others with more suitable requirements. In short, we are talking about children who have been illegally removed from their parents to give them, after a round of money, to others. To build the conditions necessary for this passage, every means was lawful, including false relationships, therapists disguised as bad characters of fairy tales in representation of parents, false memories of sexual abuse generated through electrical impulses, to alter the state of the memory of the little ones in proximity to judicial talks: a real brainwashing. Among the crimes contested are: procedural fraud, misdirection, office abuse, mistreatment of minors, serious injuries, false public act. This is a terrible story. I wanted to inform the House of this, which seems to be just a wake-up call for a more general situation. Feeding an illicit business by hitting children is a horrible crime. We also ask the Democratic Party, which has an involved mayor, to shed some light on his work. Our affectionate closeness goes to the little ones and their families. Of course, we are also close to the judiciary and law enforcement, which we thank for this fundamental work. We expect the utmost firmness and deepening. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-127.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 July 2019, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.48 p.m.
