ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 28 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u6	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, last Thursday 28 March, the European Parliament adopted an important resolution calling for immediate, transparent and credible presidential elections for Venezuela. I want to entertain this House only for a few moments, denouncing what is happening in a country that is very dear to so many of us in this House. It is now internationally acclaimed that in recent days Russian military aid, Russian aircraft and Russian mercenaries have arrived, that they have landed in Caracas and that they are building the nerve of the so-called colectivos, paramilitary groups that are rising at this time in Venezuela and that are organized, directly at the service of the regime, by the presidents of the provinces and by the alcaldas, that is, by the mayors of the main cities, that are close to President Maduro. I believe that we do not need further demonstrations: now the foreign interferences, which I denounce in this Chamber of the Senate of the Italian Republic, there are, they are acclaimed and have nothing to do with the alleged American imperialism, but they have to do only with Cuba, Russia and a series of countries, which at this moment, as leeches, are taking advantage of the dramatic situation of Venezuela. We have only feelings of friendship for the Russian people and I believe that none of us cultivate feelings that are not of great respect for President Putin, but we cannot remain silent in front of these facts, which these days are once again hitting the Armenian Venezuelan population. In these hours a woman has been killed precisely by colectivos and we have daily episodes that show us how this process of intimidation goes on, which is the only one that can allow Maduro to hold the situation in hand, because the people are all on the other side. The head of the secretariat of President Guaidó has also been put in prison, to which we renew our esteem, our friendship and the recognition of the Italian people. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Star Group. I acknowledge to President Di Maio that, coming out of the meetings he had with Bolton in Washington, he publicly declared - for this I am personally grateful to him, because the position of the Italian Government until a few weeks ago was different - that we do not recognize Maduro as President. It's something, but it's not enough. Like the main European countries, we must arrive at the recognition of Guaidó and ask the United Nations for much more significant intervention than we have had so far, because the free elections while the collectivos go crazy in Venezuela are simply impossible to carry out. Mr President, thank you for your attention and thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I think that our fight for Venezuela must continue. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u9	Garavini (PD). Mr President, I have just returned from a mission to Argentina and from a previous mission to Spain. In both countries I have had the opportunity to meet Venezuelan citizens of Italian origin, who have told me how, in recent months, thousands of Venezuelan citizens, many of whom our countrymen, on the one hand, are looking for refuge in countries close to Venezuela, such as Argentina, Brazil or Colombia, and on the other, they even look for the way to Europe, especially through Spain. Citizens who have told me about the current conditions in Venezuela and how it is impossible to find medicines. Some of them have come to Europe precisely to try to obtain the medicines to be brought back to their relatives, but they are often prevented from returning. They have told us of the tensions that there are, even in the light of the recent unilateral dismissal, by President Maduro, of the President of the Guaidó Assembly. Mr President, our country cannot continue not to take a position. Senator Casini is right when he talks about the recent introductions of troops and the financing of Russia (so there are foreign interferences, they are even more worrying and make the situation of citizenship even more dramatic). I therefore join Senator Casini, also as an expression of the Democratic Party Group, in calling for the government to finally take a position and join the important resolution adopted by the European Parliament in calling for new elections to be held in Venezuela. It is not acceptable for our country, once again, to isolate itself at international level after the whole European Union and a whole series of countries in South America and the United States themselves strongly demand that there be new elections. It is not acceptable that Italy once again has this isolation at international level, which not only greatly harms our country, but, in this dramatic situation, it can also mark further difficulties in a country like Venezuela, which sees a strong presence of our fellow citizens. The government's inertia and inability to take a clear position is no longer acceptable, President. We therefore also call for the government to finally take a clear position. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u12	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I believe that Senator Casini's initiative to speak on this issue again in this House was very timely, because the danger is that there will be an addiction to an issue that must continue to be on the agenda and not only because of its objective relevance or because we have a duty to give the Venezuelan people the support and support that has also been given at other times to countries farther away (I think, when I was young, to demonstrations in Bangladesh). I have not now seen from anyone a serious movement of opinion to support the Venezuelan people as we would like to emerge. What was denounced by Senator Casini, who can recall the Russian tanks of 1956 in Hungary or what happened in 1968 during the Spring of Prague, both insurrections repressed by the then communist dictatorship, is in reality perhaps much more similar to what Ceausescu did, always in a country then dominated by communism, when he called to collect with trains and buses the miners of the more peripheral provinces to get them to Bucharest to beat those who longed for freedom. This is what is happening in some way, also with the help of non-Venetian military subjects. Then, while we are still asking the Government for a further step in the direction of the recognition of Guaidó, we ask the Ministers of this Government, with greater possibility of concrete acceptance, to want to positively evaluate the proposal that Brothers of Italy has made of a privileged lane for the Italian children of Venezuela, for the Italovenezuelans who aspire to come to Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is an immigration, if you want to call it that, in reality, it is a help to children of our own land and our own country. I expect the government in office to move a concrete step so that this privileged lane becomes a reality. [[Applause from the FdI Group and the Senators Alderisi and Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u15	CRAXI (FI-BP). Mr President, in this Chamber of the Senate I would like to join, personally and on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, Senator Casini's high and strong complaint and his applause for the European Union resolution, a little less the position of the Government in the person of Mr Di Maio. You don't understand who should run the election: whether Maduro's death squads or who else. We therefore strongly call for free elections to be held, for the legitimate President of the Venezuelan Assembly to be recognized Juan Guaidó. That is my position and my Group's position. We will always be close to the Venezuelan people and the many of Italian origins who are there and who are suffering right now. [[Applause from the FI-BP, FdI and Senator Casini groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u16	I too hope that the situation in Venezuela will soon be resolved, protecting not only the democracy of that country but also all our fellow countrymen who are still there. [[Applause from the PD groups, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senators Mallegni and Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u17	The next item is the debate on draft law No 925, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u18	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are going to pass, which has already been fired by the House of Deputies, consists of five articles. The first, amends Article 438 of the Rite Code and provides that the abbreviated judgment for crimes for which the law provides the sentence of life imprisonment is not allowed. The proposed wording provides that, in the event of an inadmissibility of the request for an abbreviated rite - since the fact for which it is proceeding is punished with life imprisonment - the defendant may re-examine the request until the findings are made at the preliminary hearing and that, if the request for abbreviated rite declared at the preliminary hearing is not admissible, the court, at the outcome of the hearing, shall apply - if it considers that the established fact is not punishable by life imprisonment - the reduction of penalty related to the special rite. Article 2 amends Article 441-bis of the Code of Rite, which governs the possibility of new contestations by the prosecutor during the abbreviated judgment. The measure, through the introduction of a further paragraph, specifies that if the new disputes of the prosecutor concern a crime punished with life imprisonment, the judge revokes the order by which the rite was ordered and the criminal proceedings continues with ordinary forms. (16.18) (The rapporteur was Mr OSTELLARI). Article 3 intervenes, also for coordination purposes, on Article 442, paragraph 2, of the Code of Rite, relative to the amount of the penalty applicable; the reform obviously eliminates the current forecasts. Article 4 amends Article 429 of the Code of Rite which governs the decree which, at the outcome of the preliminary hearing, provides for the judgment. With the insertion of a paragraph 2 -bis the provision previews that if, at the outcome of the preliminary hearing, the original attribution for crime punished with life imprisonment is belittled by the judge of the preliminary hearing, with the decree of referral to judgment the same judge must notify the accused of the possibility to request, within fifteen days, the abbreviated rite. Finally, Article 5 of the draft law provides for the entry into force of the reform and its applicability to the events committed after it. Thanks to this text, at the first signature of Mr Molteni, those who commit serious crimes will no longer have access to penalty discounts, all in full respect of the constitutional dictation. With the adoption of this text, Parliament does not remove guarantees from the accused, it does not diminish the right to defence and, above all, it does not harm the Constitution, on the contrary, it strengthens its arrangements, bringing to full fulfilment the third paragraph of Article 102, which contains: The law regulates the cases and forms of direct participation of the people in the administration of justice. As of tomorrow, those who commit crimes such as aggravated voluntary murder, massacre or aggravated sexual violence will necessarily be subject to the judgment of a Court composed also of popular judges and therefore no longer by a single magistrate; and, if convicted, it will not automatically access odious discounts of punishment, which too often have offended the dignity of the victims, their relatives and the work of the Forces of order and of the investigators. To those who claim that this reform will end up extending the times of criminal justice further, I respond with the data that have been transmitted to us by the Ministry: in 2017, the proceedings related to the cases under consideration were 174, 1% of the total of the trials. To those who believe that to improve the performance of our courts it is necessary to maintain a privilege in favour of those who have been guilty of serious crimes I respond using common sense: if there are too many trials, the State must not give up; It cannot favour criminals, it must reaffirm its prerogatives and invest in justice, which is exactly what this Government is doing, starting with the planned recruitment of 8,000 administrative staff and 600 new magistrates. The reform that we are voting on today helps to make our justice fairer and to put the dignity of the victims at the centre without discounts for the guilty, while maintaining the sacred right to defence as provided for in our Constitution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u19	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u20	Mr President, the draft law which this House is examining today and which, in all probability, will be voting on, had actually already been adopted in the House in the last parliamentary term; then, due to the closure of the legislature, it did not go to the Senate and therefore today, as we say, it is being proposed again. The issue concerns the possibility of avoiding abbreviated judgment for particularly serious crimes, which the majority rapporteur recently pointed out and are punished with life imprisonment, such as devastation, looting, massacre, aggravated murder or kidnapping of aggravated persons. However, the text introduces a philosophy that is not in perfect harmony with the implantation of the novel code of criminal procedure, inspired by accusing principles and not inquisitors, which contemplates in its best known experience, the Anglo-Saxon one, the so-called fast trial, admitted in all cases, and what the legislator who hypothesized and identified the Vassalli reform predicted as a difficulty for our judicial system: to face then, for a judge who did not know the evidence, because they form in the debate, through the collaboration and competition between accusation and defense, the possibility that there were special deflagrant rites, such as the abbreviated one, against a reduction of punishment for those who agree to be judged on the basis of the state of the acts collected by the public prosecutor. The deflated aim would be mortified by this bill, which comes to upset what was a previous intervention of the legislator. I am referring to the so-called Carotti law which, by receiving a constitutional intervention of 1991, has put back order and established that, in the event of an abbreviated ritual, those who are sentenced to life imprisonment receive a sentence of thirty years and those who are sentenced to life imprisonment with daily isolation receive the penalty simply of life imprisonment. I don't think anyone who doesn't see a 30-year sentence is enough. Here the problem is evidently the following. We had a constitution that intervened after the so-called code Rocco, which had an inquisitive facility. The Constitution, for the vision of the constituent Fathers, protected that code more than the so-called Vassalli code, which has an accusatory system. I would remind you that Vassalli himself, who was President of the Constitutional Court, has in some cases decided or contributed to the decisions which amended the code that he signed. Therefore, we are faced with a legislator who, in some respects, has been schizophrenic over time in relation to these issues. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we want to intervene always in the aspect of cognition or whether we want to intervene in the aspect of the execution of the sentence. I often hear that there is no certainty of law and punishment. It is not true: the penalty is certain, written in the codes and becomes definitive when the judge pronounces the sentence. The problem is the execution of the sentence. We have a code that commands absolutely very high penalties, the imposition of the penalty is not then of the same tenor and scope and the execution is sometimes purely Platonic, that is, there is not and does not exist. Theft aggravated and repeated in three cases or in three houses can lead to a sentence of up to thirty years and the judge, perhaps, sentenced to a sentence of one year and eight months, with the benefit of the conditional suspension: there is, thus, the execution of the sentence. This is the contradiction between a code that abstractly provides very severe penalties and how the sentence is then executed, as was said by someone at the hearing. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has called for hearings on this measure which have not been allowed, because it has been said that we already know everything. I think we do not know everything, nor do we know enough, because if we knew everything we should carefully reflect on the effects that this measure could have. I am thinking of what has been reported by the National Judicial Association, namely the risk of limitation for many ongoing trials on the date of entry into force of this rule. We are talking about complicated trials with several defendants, against organized crime. Basically this bill, even if inspired by an understandable logic, is at the end of the day the son of the culture that governs this country at this moment, a culture of a purely judicialist nature that a part of those who govern finds a salvific, almost palingenetic conception: the fight against corruption as absolute evil of Italy, for which we make a law such as the so-called scrambled law, introducing norms on the prescription that will weigh on all citizens indiscriminately, violating fundamental principles and rights. Then there is another part of the same majority, which responds to exquisitely secure logics and in which criminal law is sometimes used in the key of compensation and security. That is not what we think should be criminal law, and that is not what we think this House should produce. We have been proud to oppose the corrupted sweeping law, especially because it has introduced a rule such as the one on the prescription, in fact deleting that institute for all citizens, because you have prevented the prescription from taking its course. This does not happen and therefore a rule is actually deleted which is a guarantee for each person not to be subjected, for an unreasonable and infinite time, to a process and the consequent media deception. Well, in view of this, we have also seen what you have managed to do in the piecemeal measure, including a rule of dubious interpretation, which even leads us to believe that any association is a political party and must behave as such and therefore any association is subject to the same obligations. In practice, it is the culture of suspicion brought to yet another power, almost as a paradigm of any normative prediction. We in the Forza Italia Group abstained from voting in the House, because we believe that the abbreviated judgment is a means of guaranteeing the right, the right balance in the process and a choice of opportunities, which must be given, obviously in the face of a substantial reduction of the penalty, when there is not yet a celebrated trial, that is, what someone has defined as a plea on the rite and not a plea on the penalty. I would remind you that Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the plea on the penalty is allowed only for certain crimes, for all other serious crimes was and is previewed the plea on the rite, i.e. the abbreviated judgment. We are careful to eliminate him, for these crimes punished with life imprisonment, with this ease. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u21	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u22	Mr President, it was 21 April 2018 when I received this letter from the activist friend Carola Prophet, which I am going to read to the Assembly: "Who writes is Fabiola Bacci, mother of Jennifer Sterlecchini, barbaricly killed in Pescara on December 2, 2016, struck with 17 stabbed by the former cohabitant, who, supported by the association Noi for the family, started in June this year the collection of signatures for the signing of a popular petition in support of the bill for the reform of the court of the abbreviated judgment, ex Article 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, already enrolled in No. 4376 of the Chamber of Deputies and approved by that Assembly on November 28, 2017, but once again shipwrecked in the Senate, as already happened for the previous one, dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies and punctually shipwrecked in the Senate ( draft law No. 1129 of 2013), at which there was opposition by a political party that prevented the proposal of law being dealt within the Deliberant Commission. As a result, it has never been possible to draw up an agenda that would allow the debate in this House and the subsequent approval within the terms of the last parliamentary term. As an outraged mother and a citizen of this State, which unfortunately still allows unfair trials, when the threshold of 50,000 subscriptions is reached, the petition, which aims to see those guilty condemned to the penalty that the State wants to recognize them, without taking advantage of the ignoble discount of punishment, today immeasurably recognized only by a strategy of choice of the rite, which further mortifies the relatives of the victims, I will endeavour to ensure that it is deposited at the Presidency of both branches of the Italian Parliament, testifying to the fact that the citizens strongly sense the inadequacy of the recourse to the abbreviated rite for the crimes of greater gravity, including the primacy of the murder. In contacting me always continues: By appealing to his sensitivity and role in the institutions, in consideration of the tearing pain that will accompany the mothers of all the children murdered for the rest of their lives, emptied of all meaning and unable to appreciate any joy of the earthly existence, personally torn by the memory of the heartbreaking screams of my beloved Jennifer, who was struck to death while I attended, desperate and helpless, locked out of the apartment theatre of the tragedy, I address to your lordship the prayer to evaluate the opportunity to restart the process that leads to the definitive approval of the draft law in question. The immense gratitude of this mother, destroyed by the pain, like so many others of this country, whose cry of pain and suffering inexorably impacted with the deafness of all institutions, must be given to your lordship right now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, we can say that today Fabiola Bacci and her daughter, Jennifer Sterlecchini, may see a window of justice. The rule that we are about to adopt, ladies and gentlemen, is a rule that simply eliminates, for certain crimes of particular gravity, the possibility for the accused to resort to the abbreviated rite and the consequent reduction of punishment. I want to make a very brief list of the crimes we are talking about: devastation, looting and massacre; massacre; aggravated murder; and aggravated assumptions of kidnapping. All heinous crimes, all of which we have the task of punishing severely. It is not possible, on the wave of guaranteeing at all costs, to establish that life imprisonment is no longer a penalty to be applied and to leave the discretion of choice, whether or not to risk life imprisonment, not already to the judge, who is responsible for determining the extent of the payment of the sentence, but, even, to the accused. We cannot afford that, Mr President. This type of crime must be excluded from the list of those for which the defendant may choose, as is already the case for other forms of alternative proceedings. We know that, for example, the plea deal today is also limited from the point of view of the sentence: you can't settle all the crimes, but there is a limit of penalty under which you have to stay in order to get access to the plea, that is to say to the application of the penalty at the request of the parties. Therefore, it does not violate either the Constitution or the existing legislation the fact that it also subject the abbreviated rite to the same limits of punishment on the basis, precisely, of the edittal penalty. On the other hand, I would like to remind my colleagues that a guarantee for the accused is in any case established, because the legislation we are about to approve provides that the judge, if he considers that life imprisonment should not be applied in this case, can, in any case, reopen the terms, even for the formulation of the request for abbreviated judgment. So, on the one hand, we have given the maximum possible guarantees to the defendant, but, on the other hand, we cannot delegate to the defendant the choice of the penalty to be applied to him. It would be really crazy. On the issue of life imprisonment, on which my previous colleague spoke, I would like to have a reflection not in this but elsewhere. Whether or not the sentence of life imprisonment is still practicable and feasible today is certainly a fascinating theme but cannot be the subject, as I said earlier, of free choice on the part of the accused. He can't be the defendant who decides whether or not a life sentence applies to him. It will be the Legislative Assembly that will determine whether that penalty is still useful or not and everyone will be able to deal with it, but it is not possible to delegate the choice to the person concerned directly. The legislation as it is constructed is, in our view, completely balanced and I can only make the rapporteur's remarks my own, hoping that the debate will go in the direction of an early adoption of this measure. We owe it to Jennifer; we owe it to his mother Fabiola and we owe it to many other Italians who have seen their relatives brutally killed and the killers get a much lighter sentence than they would have deserved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Randaccio" in Monfalcone, in the province of Gorizia, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I also greet the representatives of the voluntary association Kiwanis, in Brunico, in the province of Bolzano, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u24	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to what Mr Dal Mas has said. He always has a very elegant way of expressing himself when he speaks of law. We expressed our doubts and concerns when we spoke to the House and, of course, we are also expressing them now because the President of the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, referred to the data. I say this, although I have a great esteem of Senator Ostellari because he is a great worker. You must know that we in the Commission have been looking for the data for a long time, as before they had arrived for a piece, then for another piece; after that there was an epic battle of Senator Caliendo, so, in the end, kindly the Commission and the Offices were able to find the data of the procedures defined in court of assizes. Then I'll explain why I'm talking to you about this issue. Basically, based on the data provided on 2016-2017, we would have - by eliminating this type of cases for which it is possible to request the abbreviated rite - a quadruple of proceedings in court of assize, which obviously blocks the processes. The procedures defined by abbreviated rite had been 681, of which 73 percent condemned, against 163 defined in court of assizes. We would, therefore, have a considerable impact. In other words, it means that the implementation of this measure involves the following problems as a whole. The first problem is that the courts of assizes would be clogged. Take into account that the unsettling of a court of assizes means that, for example, as was said at the hearing in the Commission, we would no longer have a court of assizes like that of Milan that today manages to carry out all the work, because it would serve five. We would also be faced with an increase in the timing of the trial, and this was also clearly stated in the hearings, resulting in the release of time limits. So, to Mr Pillon, I would like to say that perhaps the victims would see the release of those who have torn a family member even before. There is also a problem with regard to the number of magistrates, because if they are not in court of assizes they work on something else, but above all there is a very serious problem for the fight against the mafia and the 'ndrangheta, emphasized effectively by the Prosecutor Bruti Liberati at the hearing in the Commission, who described the cases in which it was possible to proceed through the abbreviated rite for the collaborators of justice in important trials against mafia and 'ndrangheta established in Lombardy. Bruti Liberati made concrete examples, saying clearly that removing these alternative rites creates serious problems when the state and justice try to strike the great organizations of the 'ndrangheta and the mafia, because there is no intercourse. I realize then that, being unfortunately the time of justice done on emotions, they often want to feed commercials, because this would be the case. But beware of the damage that is done because the objections that I did not make, a modest Senator of Forza Italia, but authoritative magistrates in the Commission on the negative effects, with reference to the fight against large criminal organizations, should make you think that sometimes, in order to make measures that are only and exclusively electoral ads, there is a lot more damage than what can be the beneficial effect of nature and advertising. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the abbreviated judgment was introduced into our system under the Vassalli Code of Criminal Procedure and entered into force on 24 October 1989. The code originally conceived the institute in a certain way, characterizing it as a judgment in the state of the acts. The defendant, in fact, during the preliminary hearing could request, with the consent of the prosecutor and after verification by the judge of the decision to be taken in the state of the proceedings, to be judged on the basis of the evidence collected during the investigations. The prosecution's necessary consent and prior verification of the judge in fact ended with limiting the appeal to the abbreviated judgment, perhaps because the limitation periods could guarantee better results to the defendants. Thus, however, the abbreviated rite did not assume that deflated role hoped for at the time of the entry into force of the Vassalli Code. As regards, in particular, the subject of the draft law in our examination, the question of the relationship between abbreviated judgment and crimes punishable by life imprisonment, since the drafting of the 1988 Code of Rite, has given rise to a wide-ranging debate both in doctrine and in law. The main problem was that the 1987 Law of Delegation No 81 did not provide for life imprisonment. The reduction of a third valid for the other penalties had been brought to thirty years for life imprisonment, given the impossibility to determine to equal extent the decrease of a sentence like that of the prison for life. The Constitutional Court intervened by declaring the constitutional illegitimacy of the rule precisely because of excess of delegation and in this way for several years the abbreviated rite was deemed inapplicable for offences punished in the abstract with the penalty of life imprisonment. Since 1991 the Constitutional Court has intervened on the judgment abbreviated for the first time by a ruling of illegitimacy in the part in which it did not provide for any decision of the judge on the opposition of the prosecutor to the request for the rite, justifying it with the risk of unequal treatment between two defendants with the same accusation in the event that the prosecutor consented to the rite only for one and not for the other. In a subsequent judgment, the Consultative Committee ruled that it was the judge of the dispute that decided on the merits of the public prosecutor's dissent and therefore on the existence of the requirements for the abbreviated judgment. Later there were several judgments of the Constitutional Court above all on the question of the judgment in the state of the acts, that is those that had been acquired during the investigation investigations and therefore invited the legislator to introduce mechanisms of probative integration that have so distorted the original ritual, because it could be obtained the reward of the reduction and allow integration with regard to the proof. In 1999 the Carotti law was passed, which eliminated any possibility of opposition from the prosecutor to the defendant's request, thus giving rise to a right to request the abbreviated judgment. Precisely with the aforementioned law the possibility of recourse to the abbreviated rite is restored also with reference to crimes punishable by life imprisonment. At present, therefore, there are no offences for which access to the abbreviated rite is precluded. This is the historical reconstruction of the institute, enriched by the most recent reform approved in the last legislature at the impulse of the then Minister of Justice Orlando. The draft law before us today proposes to exclude from the scope of application of the abbreviated judgment the crimes punished with the sentence of life imprisonment. These are crimes of undisputed gravity that have already been stated, such as devastation, looting, massacre, aggravated murder, feminicide (not mentioned among the various hypotheses), as well as aggravated assumptions of kidnapping. It is also expected that when a crime is committed that is not punished with life imprisonment and the abbreviated rite is applied it is always possible to return to ordinary criminal proceedings if the accused framework is aggravated and the prosecutor contests a crime punished with life imprisonment. On the other hand, if the original indictment for the crime punished with life imprisonment is debilitated at the end of the preliminary hearing, the defendant, as is his right, will be warned of the possibility of requesting the abbreviated ritual. In addition, the reform, according to a precise provision of law that clears the field from any interpretative doubt, will apply only to events committed after its entry into force; this is therefore a rule that we may experience in four or five years' time. The fearful risk - we have heard this - is that the adoption of this bill will lead to an increase in work for the courts of assizes, which will evidently be called upon to judge a greater number of crimes. However, we must consider that we return to the judge pre-established by law, that court judge of assizes who represents the application of Article 102 of the Constitution, with the representation of the Italian people to the administration of justice, the crimes for which he is competent. In the full awareness that the judge of the debate is the one who can best evaluate and graduate the sentence, it will be the court of assize, finally, to be able to judge the most equitable penalty, in order to adapt it to the concrete case, be it more or less serious. At the moment, as we have learned from the data that have been provided, the abbreviated rite is rarely asked by those who see in the prescription a possibility to escape the trial, while a good part of the accused for crimes that provide for life sees precisely in the abbreviated the certainty of a penalty discount for the mere choice of the rite; and this is absolutely not good. If you must have discount, you must have it because the judge, evaluate the circumstances of the fact, can determine which is the most equitable penalty to apply. This must not be the way to reduce the time of justice. It is necessary to return to the abbreviated rite the original ratio, that of a deflated, rewarding rite, guaranteed but not exploited for this by those who have been guilty of the most horrible crimes, which deserve careful cognition in court of assizes also by the popular jury, as provided for in the Constitution. The ratio behind the abbreviated judgment is all reduced in this assessment: is it always permissible, for every type of crime, to reduce the penalty by a third in exchange for a saving of time of about one year? These are the data that D.A. Bruti Liberati auditioned. He said that the trials at first degree lasted four years with the abbreviated rite and five years with the ordinary rite. Honestly, it seems to me that, in assessing costs and benefits, it is better to return these serious crimes to the jurisdiction of the court. A country works better and is safer when the machine of justice acts effectively and fairly. This draft law certainly corrects a distortion of the system, but - it should be remembered here - it is not with spot normative interventions that we can achieve systemic results, but with structural and long-term reforms, which is what we hope most to increase the possibility of having a justice that works. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u28	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u29	Mr President, I am sure that none of us have gone unnoticed how this dramatic week opened: in less than 24 hours, two more cases of feminicide, two more women killed by their former husbands. As you know, this time it happened to Nuoro and Enna, for a tragic accounting, which since the beginning of the year has now recorded 17 cases of feminicide. I remember all this not because in criminal matters we have to intervene in the wake of the daily news; I have remembered these dramatic facts for another reason, because one of the meters with which we have to evaluate this bill is whether it is actually able to achieve the objectives it gives itself or if, instead, it will remain the yet another manifest norm, which instead of solving the problems will leave them open, introducing even new ones. Certainty and effectiveness of the sentence have been and will always be indispensable objectives for the Democratic Party; objectives to be pursued, however, with serious and advanced policies, not - allow me - with medals to be auctioned on the consent market. We have never thought of denying the problem from which this bill originates, because it is simply true, it is a real theme; it was real in the last legislature and it is now. In our system there is an area of contradiction between the harshness of the threatened penalty and the narrowness of the one then actually attributed. It is a problem that exists not from today and that also recent cases of feminicide strongly emphasize, even if not always homogeneously. That is why the reasons that led us to propose a legal solution on these issues, even in the last parliamentary term, remain valid for us today, just today that we are opposed. The main problem, now well shared and focused, we know it: it is the short circuit resulting from the application of the dry penalty discount of a third due to the abbreviated ritual, which can cross - alas - with the granting of mitigating circumstances. This has led, in some cases, to pain, unfortunately, also very inconsistent with the gravity and hellishness of the crime and of the crime. We have seen the judgments of the last few days, we have alas commented on them and we have probably taken note of them with a pain inside. But now this majority, in the face of these kinds of judgments, has thought of intervening on the trial, with the aim of the sentence once again. In other words, he decided to exclude the possibility of accessing the abbreviated judgment for crimes involving life imprisonment. All those who have been audited have pointed out to you the problems that may arise, first of all the fact that, in the case of crimes punished with life imprisonment as aggravated, the prosecutor must decide whether or not there is an aggravating circumstance before a judgment takes place; this in itself precludes access to the abbreviated rite. Already this is enough to understand that the concrete application of this standard produces more than one critical, and also very important. It is dysfunctional, because the trials dealt with in court of assizes will increase; and they will be trials with a greater number of defendants. The League said that by this law citizens will regain confidence in justice. Alas, in our opinion the opposite will happen as soon as the citizens realize that the times of justice will continue to expand rather than decrease. I regret that, Madam President, there will be no (I say no) credible response from this measure to the suffering of direct and indirect victims of crime. Those people who feel affected by the lack of recognition of their pain and suffering will once again remain without a satisfactory response. That answer does not come from a state that exposes the culprit to the revenge of an endless trial in the public square or that feeds on the victims expectations that will remain elusive due to unworkable technical solutions. In a democratic state and in a rule of law, the satisfactory response to the victims will always be a fair punishment for the culprit, who is primarily the result of a sustainable legal choice, while the one chosen by the majority is a propaganda solution, which does not notice or want to notice the problems and the critical issues that it raises. For an all too clear reason, for those who have learned to know this majority and this Government in depth: because its objective is not the certainty of a fair penalty, but it is only the mere punitive display for the benefit of its propaganda. This is the populist criminal policy, which does not care about the practical and real effectiveness of the measures, nor about the appropriate solutions to achieve it. I remember that this proposal of law on the abbreviated rite was approved at first reading in November 2018 in the House. It's been almost five months, and the majority here in the Senate have continued to go on like a train. It has not found a way of accepting so many suggestions from authoritative voices; it has not shown itself to dialogue and has not agreed to look carefully at the amendments of the other parliamentary political forces present in the Commission. The observations of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which rightly wonders how it is possible to reduce the duration of criminal proceedings, have also been ignored, if one chooses to give up the abbreviated rite in an area in which it has produced good and satisfactory results. Yet it did not help to point out that the problems of punitive treatment have different faces. There's what I was saying, coming from the combination of ritual rewards and balance of circumstances. But it would also have been reasonable to consider the excessive rigidity, which deprives the judge of the possibility of graduating the sentence according to the seriousness of the facts, and to remove it from the dry alternative between a 16-year-old pen and a 30-year-old prison pen. The majority cannot say that it has not been given any alternative possibilities, but it is more effective in ways which would be less controversial. Mr President, on other occasions this morning, in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, we audited an authoritative representative of the Court of Cassation, who agreed with the opinions given by the magistrates at the hearings on the abbreviated rite measure and asked us to be careful not to make propaganda on this ground, because the abbreviated rite in these cases has produced remarkable and important results. The Democratic Party has tried to go in this direction. Even in the Senate we proposed a solution that did not intervene on the rite, amputating the process of an essential leg, but instead allowing, for the most heinous crimes, there was the possibility for the judge not to apply the penalty discount of a third. It is nothing subversive, but it is something useful to avoid that inflamed assize courts, which would cause the lengthening of the processes, the concrete risk of release for the beginning of the terms and, cascade, serious inconveniences for the courts and court of appeal, large and small. You understand even less, then, your refusal to balance circumstances in all cases of crimes against the person. We have proposed that in cases where there are aggravating factors, such as having acted for abject or futile reasons, having used torture or having acted cruelly against people, the penalty should be calculated first by applying the aggravating factors and only subsequently decreased. It was a solution, which was also called for by Minister Bonafede himself during these hours, during the debate on the so-called red code in the House of Deputies, to put an end to sentences with very little punishment in the face of very serious crimes. We proposed this first to the Chamber of Deputies and then to the Senate, but nothing: even in the face of this solution, the majority showed an attitude of total closure. Look, ladies and gentlemen, our amendment concerned all the crimes against the person, not just those punished with life imprisonment. I appeal in particular to the Senators of the League: to the next sentence on a case of sexual violence with penalties that, calculated with the current discipline, will end up being really unreasonable, if not offensive of the need for justice of the victims, there will be no tweets and no roboating statement, which will suffice to cover your precise political choice, which happens today, here, in front of the country. Today's, to tell the truth, is not the first time that the criminal sector is attacked by the current Government. Last week, the House voted for a reform of self-defense, which has the only concrete objective of making home security a private business. The so-called corrupt sweeping measure, among other things, sterilized the prescription, with the introduction of an endless process and the de facto farewell to the presumption of innocence for Italian citizens. These are all rules with which a strict penalty is claimed, but then we do everything contrary to what it would take to give certain times to justice. Once again, this majority uses the penalty penalty only to flag an integrity, a strength and a diversity, which it does not possess and does not belong to it. In conclusion, the majority - and the League, which strongly wanted this measure - had the opportunity to put their hands on a serious and real problem of Italian justice. It could have done so with the support of the whole Parliament and of all its forces. Instead, he wasted the opportunity, once again preferring to use punishment as a prophylaxis to build his identity rather than to protect and defend concretely the pain and suffering of the victims. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u30	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u31	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, on the premise that if this change is to be applied to the facts and crimes that will be committed after its entry into force, it is not because we want it, but because - and God! - criminal law is irretroactive and it is right and proper to do so. At the same time, we believe that justice must be just and swift. With the rules under consideration, which are not commercial rules, but have a certain conformity with the country's feeling, we make it fair and with the new code of ritual, which the majority have committed to writing within a year, we will also make it quick. I would also like to say to those who preceded me that, rather than worrying about the beginning of the terms of release for those who are subject to precautionary measures, I would worry about imposing a fair penalty, rather than making preventive discounts and allowing genuine monsters to benefit, thanks to these discounts, also from the benefits during the execution of the sentence itself. Well, we believe that this is a measure of balance between the State and the citizens: the State - and therefore its punitive claim - and the citizens with respect to the right of defence which - as has been widely said before - is not trampled on at all, but rather is protected. I do not want to repeat in this speech what Mr Pillon has already said, namely what are the crimes that are eliminated from the possibility of resorting to an abbreviated rite: they are crimes that have a devastating social impact and for which we believe that there should be an exemplary and proportionate penalty. The right of defence is not affected, since, if the request for eligibility for the abbreviated rite at the stage of preliminary hearing is rejected, the same can always be repeated during the preliminary hearing until the conclusions of the same phase. There is more: it can also be repeated during the debate, if the judge were to believe that the sentence of life imprisonment is not to be applied; as if there were to be a remodulation in melius of the dispute, the defendant has the right to propose this instance. The right of defence is therefore largely protected and guaranteed, especially because this possibility is allowed with an assessment that the judge makes in practice within the trial. What are the objectives that we aim to achieve with this rule (and not only with this rule)? The first is to have good in mind to live in an authoritative, reliable and just state: an authoritative state is a present state, that there is and enforces the rules that must be respected; reliable, because it plays to the full the role it has, and just because, precisely, it imposes the right penalties through the judiciary. Too many times we have seen hardened and fierce delinquents around, who more than go to atone for a penance within the walls of the prison patriae, have had a real vacation within those walls. It is not right that, in the face of this kind of execution of punishment, then we complain because the civil part may not have had the right compensation. It is right that the civil party should have the compensation it deserves, but it is also right that the criminal should be able to atone, as he deserves, for the punishment he has been given. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u32	Excuse me, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u33	I kindly invite colleagues to lower the tone of their conversations, because I find it difficult to hear Senator Pepe. PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. No preventive discount: the judge of surveillance will assess during the execution of the sentence what is the path of rehabilitation of the condemned - this yes - and from this point of view will not be denied. However, the penalty that is imposed according to this rule is exemplary and proportionate and above all respectful of the dictation of Article 27 of our Constitution: the penalty is and remains re-educational, so as to allow the condemned to rightly resume to live, from a private but also social point of view, his own life, where he atoned for the condemnation that was imposed on him. One last aspect: we think that Italians have said several times, in different forms and with different instruments, that they can no longer of the widespread sense of impunity and of the widespread sense of impotence of the State that live in Italy. These must surely be eradicated, because the sense of impunity and the sense of powerlessness of the State are negative aspects that affect so much the evildoers, who in the face of this sense of impunity and impotence are driven to continue their criminal life, as the honest ones, who are taken by a state of frustration that surely diminishes the degree of reliability of the State for the citizens. We believe it is another important piece that this majority and the Government have introduced into the world of justice, which we will carry out with rules of merit but above all with the rite of the new criminal trial that will make the process up to our civilization: faster and more just. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u35	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I do not have all the certainty that this majority has about the positive effects that the news will likely be produced - indeed, almost certainly - introduced by the vote of this House. I say this because I come from an experience in the field, gained for over thirty years, when I began to do the profession and still existed the old code of criminal procedure. At that time court proceedings were also related to the robbery and attempted murder, so already in the youth there was some experience. Then, as President Grasso recalled earlier, in October 1989 the new Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force, which included some deflated rites, including the abbreviated rite and the so-called plea, the application of penalty upon request. Why were they inserted? For an innumerable number of reasons. I would like to point out first of all - here the reasoning involves criminal policy - that then, before the 1990s, the number of crimes committed in Italy was substantially small compared to what we are witnessing today. Today we also have foreign citizens delinquencying in Italy; I would not like to repeat in this House the numbers of our prison situation, but it is certainly an inflamed system. If we then have to deal with the reality of things, with the pathology of this system, we have to ask ourselves whether the elimination of the possibility of accessing the shortened rite for certain crimes actually leads to concrete results. Well, I do not have all the certainty this House has. I would like to refer to President Grasso who mentioned the intervention in the Commission of the former Attorney General Bruti Liberati, who indicated that in the proceedings concluded in Milan for a famous trial - which I will talk about later - there were about 161 defendants, many of whom decided for the abbreviated rite (about 120 of 161) while 41 went to the ordinary. Well, of these 161, the 120 who chose the abbreviated rite ended overall the procedure - started in 2010 - in the year 2014, while those who went to ordinary rite in the year 2015. The Attorney General of Milan said something exactly opposite to what Senator Grasso said today in the Chamber; he made a rhetorical example: if everyone had ended up before the court of Assizes, what would have happened? Would we have been able to achieve justice in such a short time? Frankly, the one who speaks to you has many doubts, but not just me. Colleagues, we at Forza Italia have a concept of defending the guarantees of the process; we want a fair, balanced process. We want a trial that respects above all the principle of proportionality between the fact committed and the condemnation received, not least; we also want a criminal policy that puts the system in a position to react and cope with this pressing wave of serious crimes. To say, for example, that life is needed for murder is a more political idea than a judicial one. Very well: in principle we all agree, if the person who commits a particularly heinous crime and turns out to be guilty after the trial is sentenced to life imprisonment, but we cannot make it a rule; very often, so many elements enter the trial starting from the human factor and there is no trial equal to another. What are then the essential reasons why, as Forza Italia Group, we allow ourselves to highlight the critical issues? First of all, I would refer to Article 303 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which lays down the terms and limits of security custody in grade. The risk is that in certain maxi-processes there will be a delay and excellent release, as has been the case in the past, and as I imagine everyone in this House will remember. This is a principle, a real and concrete thing, we are not inventing anything new, but it is a problem that I put to the Assembly: imagine what it means in a maxi-trial with 200 defendants and 400 lawyers simply succeed in making notifications for everyone and organizing the necessary auxiliary staff and the process; it is something cyclopic. Let us then try to stay with our feet on the ground and realize that the abbreviated ritual instrument actually has a deflagrating function. On the other hand, I have heard in this House and I have also read in the newspapers some things that do not answer to the truth at all, such as the fact that before the judge of preliminary investigations, in the event of an abbreviated rite, the sentence of life imprisonment cannot be granted. We remember, and it is right to reiterate, that the sentence of life imprisonment, where required, can be converted over thirty years, but, when it is required for particular heinous crimes, the penalty of life imprisonment with day isolation can be imposed exclusively, without day isolation. This, in my opinion, is very important. Speaking of judicial policy and assize courts, we do not think about what we see on television in American trials, with the popular jury, which certainly exists also in our system, but it is composed of six popular judges and two togatati; this means that in the jury of an assize court or of an appeal board court we subtract important magistrates, who, on the contrary, could exercise their functions either in court of appeal or in court. This is another extremely important issue, which we believe should be highlighted. The abbreviated procedure, on the other hand, is not only destructive, but is defined in the state of the proceedings. Very often, the Republic's own prosecutor would have or has an interest in defining it in this way, because the evidence is collected by the prosecutor, brought before the judge for preliminary investigations and, on the basis of such evidence, a judgment is given. The difference lies also in the fact that, while the judge for preliminary investigations is aware of the acts, in an ordinary trial in court of assizes or in court of assizes of appeal, or better still in first instance, there is no perpetual contemporaneousness, with extreme precision of what happened, but it all starts ex novo. The timing of the proceedings entails very serious limitations on the conduct of proceedings. We think not only of the exceptions that can be presented, but even of the witnesses, who, after so many years, risk not remembering anymore. One thing is to make a trial quickly, which justice on the other hand would like to achieve; another is one with unendurable lengths. Are we really convinced, then, that even offended persons can benefit from this news? I have serious doubts, and that is why we, Senators of Forza Italia, will vote in abstention. And we do it with conviction, because we are sure that we do not have to pursue what has been said in many cases by ordinary people in bars, invoking perhaps draconian codes. We believe that there must be and must always be a balance, which at this moment is guaranteed above all by maintaining the institute in question, which, even in certain cases (e.g. in the maxiprocesses), also allows the repentant to access a prize rite such as that abbreviated. These are the reasons, in essence, for which we believe that a favourable but very critical vote of abstention can be expressed on the draft law, also because I am aware that the measure is at risk of appeal by the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u36	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Dante Alighieri in Valderice, in the province of Trapani. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u38	The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u39	Mr President, the measure under consideration reform the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to respond to the right of justice and certainty of punishment. For those who have committed very serious crimes, for which the law provides for life imprisonment, it cannot be possible to access the abbreviated judgment, through which the sentence of life imprisonment is replaced by that of imprisonment for thirty years. These are crimes such as those of devastation, looting, massacre and aggravated murder, as well as aggravated assumptions of kidnapping. The text provides that the request for abbreviated rite for one of these crimes must be declared inadmissible by the judge of the preliminary hearing and allows the defendant to renew the request until the conclusions are made at the preliminary hearing. In addition, the provision provides that if, at the end of the proceedings, the judge acknowledges that the abbreviated order was possible for the fact established, he must, in any case, apply to the sentenced person the reduced penalty provided for when proceeding with the special ritual. The measure also provides that when a criminal offence is committed that is not punishable by life imprisonment and the abbreviated ritual is admitted, ordinary criminal proceedings must be restored if the criminal case is aggravated and the prosecutor contests a criminal offence punished by life imprisonment. However, if the original indictment of a crime punishable by life imprisonment is debilitated at the end of the preliminary hearing, the defendant will be warned of the possibility of requesting the abbreviated ritual. If the choice of abbreviated judgment is allowed, generally, with reasons linked to the need to save time and resources and to speed up the time of the trial, the same ratio is not acceptable for very serious crimes that the penal code severely punishes and that create a serious social alarm in the public opinion. In fact, we cannot fail to point out that the application of considerably reduced penalties with respect to the perpetual penalty initially provided for by the penal code is disturbing. I therefore reject any accusation of judicial populism, which is absolutely out of place and instrumental. On the contrary, this is an answer to all those citizens who are demanding justice. We are guaranteed to the end, but those who commit a crime of particular heinousness and danger to the community or the country cannot enjoy discounts of punishment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a norm of common sense, which we carry forward with determination and great awareness. The measure does not remove rights and does not dismantle guarantees, as those who are always ready to defend those who commit crimes, in this case very serious. On the contrary, we are on the side of the victims and their families, the decent people and the forces of order who risk their lives every day to ensure the safety of all. We're on the side of the state. Of course, the rule does not harm any constitutionally guaranteed rights, but it guarantees the community that the State and the institutions have the means to defend and protect it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u40	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u41	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u42	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u43	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, up to the words "Law No 354 of 26 July 1975.' (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,103 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senators Lonardo and Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u44	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u45	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u46	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, identical to amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u47	Mr President, I did not speak on the other amendments, but on 3,102 I would like you all to reflect, especially the Government. This is a procedural rule, I also see Undersecretary Molteni and I would like him to realize that it is necessary to provide that these procedural rules are not applied to the ongoing processes, otherwise we will face consequences that are certainly not insignificant in the proceedings that are being held. For this reason, I believe that a moment of reflection should lead you to give a favourable opinion on this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u48	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u49	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u50	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u51	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u54	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, this very simple amendment seeks to give a clear answer to the fact that the whole measure calls into question the discretion of the judge, because it is in fact mortifying. To mortify the discretion of the judge's decision means to degrade the judicial function, that function which the judges carry out on a daily basis and therefore means to bring an unnecessary attack on the court itself. Beware that leaving the system with automatisms means demeaning the peculiar function, which is that of the margin of discretion of those who, equipped with the necessary technical knowledge and with the complete knowledge of the acts, can give a judgment more appropriate to the specific case that goes to face. It is therefore in this sense that paragraph 2-a is added with which it reaffirms the necessity that it is the judge, third party, in possession of the necessary technical-juridical knowledge, who has complete knowledge of the acts, to be able to evaluate the matter and decide whether the sentence of life imprisonment can and should be replaced with that of the thirties, removing that automatism that comes previously. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u55	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 4, on which we have tabled an amendment to delete the article and an amendment to insert an additional article after Article 4, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u56	Mr President, the opinion is against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u57	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u58	Having not been tabled on Article 4 other amendments than the deleterious 4,100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u61	VALENT (PD). Mr President, Amendment 4.0.1 basically refers to what has also been said in the general debate. Meanwhile, it is an amendment to Article 69 of the Criminal Code. We proposed to add, for all crimes against the person (so, not only for the penalties that provided for life imprisonment), not to proceed to the so-called balancing; that is, they cannot be considered equivalent or prevailing with respect to these mitigating circumstances. In addition, we added that the decreases in penalties are carried out on the amount of the same resulting from the increase resulting from the aforementioned aggravating factors. We said this precisely in the logic that we have tried to explain before, to avoid what has been recorded in some judgments in recent weeks, that is that a penalty, even a heavy one, could be, with this system and with this mechanism, significantly reduced. Therefore, we continue to tell you, in some way, that the choice of the majority has been absolutely unreasonable, out of context, out of merit and deeply distonic from the many statements that we are punctually ready to make in the face of judgments that appear unfair to us. We read tweets, we read comments, we read a collective and choral indignation, but then we find opposition to an amendment that essentially attacked this phenomenon, against which Minister Bonafede himself had committed himself to intervene, meanwhile with the code red. We proposed it here, on the abbreviated rite. It was exactly the same subject. But in a very preliminary way and without looking, once again, at the substance of our proposals, we voted against this amendment. For these reasons we consider this attitude unacceptable and will vote against the article. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u62	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the maintenance of Article 4. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is completely deleted from the article, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u63	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u65	Having not been tabled on Article 5 other amendments than the deletion of 5,100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 5. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u68	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies will vote in favour of this measure. It is a principle of our order that the judge must assess on a case-by-case basis having the possibility to apply mitigating and aggravating to shape the condemnation on the particularity of the event. The discretion of the judge cannot be replaced by automatisms or actual ruling rules as this Government has tried to do with the law on self-defense or the bill Pillon. However, it is unacceptable for the accused of a serious crime, such as premeditated murder, to benefit from the discount of a third of the penalty only for the choice of a ritual. We cannot, that is, reward someone who deserves the sentence of life imprisonment because he has spared the judicial machine the conduct of a debate. The measure corrects a distortion that has come to be created in the Italian law: the abbreviated rite has become a precise strategy of the defense in cases of obvious and pronounced guilt of the accused and has assumed the value of a real right to the penalty discount. To this is added for the condemned the possibility of resorting in any case to new degrees of judgment with the aim of obtaining a further reduction until creating incredible situations that generate only frustration and anger in the public opinion. This is exactly the case with Olga Matei's killer, who got a 16-year-old sentence discount after being sentenced first to 30 and not to life imprisonment because of the abbreviated ritual. Let us not forget that since the beginning of the year 17 women have already been killed. This case is an example of the need for this measure. In the face of feminicides, mafia crimes, premeditated murders, there can be no shortcut that brings the maximum penalty to a handful of years of imprisonment. It is this perception of unjust justice that generates frustration and anger not only in public opinion and that drives citizens to no longer trust in justice. I'm not even convinced by the criticism of the aggraviation of work for the court of assizes. On the contrary, it is precisely the pre-established judge who can best assess the sentence. The road, on the other hand, must be to strengthen the structures and the judicial staff because we must not forget that Italy, compared to other European countries, is the one with the least number of judges per inhabitants. That is why the objectives of this measure are acceptable and it is for this reason that I reiterate the Group's support for the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u71	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everything divides us from the present majority and from the government. We do not share almost any of the choices made so far; let us consider the drift of the last few weeks, following the election results in the different regions, as an additional risk for the economic stability and credibility of our country on the chessboard community and international. The trouble with which the majority shareholder of the government, the 5 Star Movement, is trying to recover that half of lost consensus among voters and the League's reaction to the rediscovered battle spirit of its allies, is taking on tones of farce. We saw it this weekend with the ridiculous accusations and counter-accusations on adoptions; we saw it about the Verona conference; we saw it with the harshness with which it is finally officially called into question, even by the majority, the bad bill Pillon, an inemendable and dangerous text from the cultural point of view, before the regulatory one. Perhaps you are still not quite clear that you have a country to govern, a country that is on the threshold of a dramatic economic crisis with data that worsen from day to day and concrete risks to employment. This premise, this total distance from the work of the Government is necessary and necessary before entering into the merit of the provision that, soon, will be put to the vote. I believe that this is a step in the right direction, even if I continue to denounce, as I have already had the opportunity to express on the occasion of the vote on the so-called corrupt sweep, the majestic error of specific measures in criminal matters, instead of a wider revision of the whole procedure. We know very well that the problem of justice in Italy is the times of trials; we have been saying this for decades. But what price are we willing to pay to shorten, as we have seen, by not much, these times? The ratio behind the abbreviated judgment is all reduced in this assessment. Is it always permissible for every kind of crime to reduce the penalty by a third in exchange for a saving of time of about one year, according to the data rendered in audition by the former Prosecutor Bruti Liberati, in the duration of the trial of first degree? Honestly, I don't. It is true that a trial with more defendants would be a greater commitment, but one who has made the maxi trial against the mafia and has done so in a very short time for this kind of crime, in which from the organization you can certainly save a lot of time. I would like to pay particular attention to one fundamental point: the quantification of the sentence has nothing - I repeat nothing - to do with its educational function, which concerns the subsequent passage of the execution of the sentence. The Assembly should take very high consideration of the lesson Aldo Moro gave his students back in 1976. I quote: "Remember that the penalty is not the passionate heavy vengeance of the private: it is the calibrated response of the legal order and, therefore, has all the measure proper to the interventions of the social power, which cannot abandon themselves to instincts of reaction and revenge, but must be calmly commensurate to the necessity, strictly to the necessity, to give the crime an answer as expressed in a just penalty." (From 5.50 p.m.) (Following Grasso). I quote these words in order to introduce a passage of the opinion of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the measure when it says that there is therefore an objectively wide divergence of the punitive treatment resulting from the combination of the premiality of the rite and the balance of circumstances and, at the same time, an excessive rigidity of the system, which ends up inhibiting the judge the possibility of graduating the penalty in relation to the concrete gravity of the facts. The opinion of the MSC continues by explaining how for the aggravated murder can be decided only in the alternative between sixteen and thirty years; it is, therefore, a penalty that may prove inadequate by default or by excess. Eliminating the abbreviated rite for serious crimes is therefore not revenge, it is not rigor, it is not justiceism; instead, it means returning to the judge the possibility of a real adaptation of the penalty to the concrete case on the basis of assessments and not of the chosen rite. I would like to make a further system consideration. At the moment the abbreviated rite is the one chosen almost exclusively by those who commit crimes that provide for life imprisonment and cannot rely on the reasonable hope of prescription. If the reform voted a few months ago on the subject, that is, the blocking of the prescription after the first degree of judgment, will come into force as planned, I am sure that the decrease of the processes with abbreviated rite foreseen by the current order will be more than compensated by those who, being unable to rely on the time factor, will have the convenience to choose it in order to see the sentence diminished of a third, thus guaranteeing a substantial balance in the numbers, waiting for serious measures, of wide scope, on the criminal process in general. Although with all the limitations highlighted and for the reasons set out above, I announce the vote in favour of Free and Equals, demonstrating that the opposition we make to this Government and the majority is neither ideological nor independent; indeed, we would like it to be possible more often to vote favorably for the measures of the majority, but unfortunately so far only very rarely have you put forward positive and sensible initiatives. We will always call the majority and the Government to their responsibilities, with the wish that to shorten there is above all the duration of this yellow-green season, because ruling a great country like Italy is a serious thing that requires less tweets and more work, of the Government as above all of Parliament, which - it should be emphasized - is almost paralyzed by your internal struggles on every subject. Therefore I repeat all our opposition to the Government, but the favorable vote of Free and Equal to the provision in question [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u74	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I believe that today the legislator is obliged to intervene with the draft law under consideration because of the excessive indulgence of certain magistrates, obviously against the balance and the sense of fairness in the payment of the penalty of the vast majority of Italian magistrates. I am speaking of excessive indulgence because it is clear to everyone that judgments such as those of a few days ago, which have almost halved the penalty for a voluntary murder on the grounds of a not better specified emotional storm on the part of the killer, are the result of the combined arrangement of the reduction of mandatory penalty for those who choose the abbreviated rite and of a system of equally questionable mitigatings. Excessive indulgence to which I have to think at this moment after learning that the Turin Public Prosecutor did not contest the aggression of racial hatred against the murderer of Stefano Leo, who claimed to have killed Stefano Leo only because he was Italian. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] This is the excessive indulgence of certain judiciary, to which today the legislator tries partially to remedy with this reform, to which I immediately announce the favorable vote of Brothers of Italy, but accompanied by some observations. I would like to make the first remark to the Government and to the majority in reminding them that it is not enough to exclude the abbreviated rite in order to eliminate the distortions I have just mentioned. It is well known, in fact, that only one extenuating circumstance is sufficient so that, according to Article 65, number 2, of the penal code, the sentence of life imprisonment, even after the approval of this reform, can be replaced the sentence from twenty to twenty-four years; this, with only one extenuating. In accordance with Article 67 of the Criminal Code, the sentence may be reduced to ten years with more than one less than one sentence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we, who are patriotic opposition, voted in favour, unlike the majority, of Amendment 4.0.1 by Senators Cucca, Mirabelli, Cirinna and Valente (excellently illustrated by the latter). In fact, this amendment - I am sorry, dear rapporteur - goes precisely in the direction of preventing excessive indulgence in the discharge of the sentence. If it had been approved, it would have foreseen that before applying the mitigating factors (at least for offences motivated by abject or futile reasons or in any case perpetrated by those who have used or acted cruelly) the aggravating factors should have been applied, excluding the comparison of equivalence or prevalence and applying the reduction of penalty only on the calculation so determined. A bit as is already the case today in our road homicide system: in fact, article 590-c of the penal code, in the presence of certain aggravating factors (e.g. escape or drunk driving) provides exactly this, i.e. that the mitigating factors cannot be considered prevalent or equivalent and that the reduction of penalty applies only to the penalty determined on the basis of the aggravating circumstances. This is the direction that we believe should be taken, not only for crimes punished with life imprisonment, but also for other crimes, much more hateful than what we are considering today and against which, instead, the ordinary system of calculation and calculation of circumstances applies; crimes much more hateful than road murder, which still remains a manslaughter. We would like this principle to be applied, for example, in cases of sexual violence, exploitation of prostitution, aggravated robbery and so on. That is why we were surprised that this majority, which speaks of security and just severity towards criminals, rejected the amendment I mentioned earlier. The real problem, ladies and gentlemen (and I conclude), is that the Italian judicial system, on the one hand, provides severe penalties for many - if not for all - but, on the other hand, it is unable to guarantee the certainty of the penalty. This is not only because of the reasons I have just explained and not only because of the excessive indulgence of some magistrates, but because in our system, especially when we move from the imposition to the execution of the sentence, there are an endless series of premium institutions, automatic penalty discounts, alternative measures to prison, so and so that only a hardened criminal today has the prospect of truly ending up in an Italian prison. That is why we believe that we should remedy all this, guaranteeing the highest possible guarantees in the trial, but once the trial has been concluded and the defendant's guilt has been established, at the time when that defendant is to serve the sentence, then the sentence is really taken to the end. There is no need for serious penalties: when a penalty is imposed, it needs to be taken seriously. It is on this ground that we, the Brothers of Italy, challenge this majority. It is easy to make a nice press release tomorrow saying that from now on the abbreviated rite will no longer be allowed to murderers and those who commit serious crimes punished with life imprisonment. It is much more difficult to lay hands on the principle of certainty of punishment, which is unfortunately far from being applied in Italy today. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u77	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, once again a measure that this Government wants to sell as a revolutionary in the Italian judicial system. Once again, a measure that will not have a favourable effect. Once again, a measure which does not take into account the actual state of our judicial system and the conditions under which those who work there operate. The stated intention is to ensure a stricter sanctioning response for crimes of particular gravity. Once again, this government thinks exclusively of its perpetual electoral campaign and bowls one measure after another, measures that are not discussed in the Commission and that pass as desired and proposed by the government. The next time the Minister comes to tell us that he has a continuous relationship with the law-makers, he better add that he, what the law-makers report to him, doesn't care very much. He doesn't care about their thoughts, because he or whoever for him proceeds as roller compressors for the approval of measures, sometimes useless and often even harmful. As happened for other measures already approved, also for this measure, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, numerous and authoritative subjects have been audits: representatives of the judiciary, illustrious lawyers and representatives of the most representative associations. Everyone has said in unison that this measure is not only useless, but, as I said, it is even harmful. Some have even said that it will have devastating effects in the judicial system. This measure is intended essentially to prevent the accused of a crime punishable by life imprisonment from accessing the abbreviated rite and thus enjoy the penalty discount. However - this is one of the aspects that has not been taken into account - in many of the cases envisaged the benefit is actually reduced to a discount of life sentence to give thirty years, or even, in other circumstances, to simply command life without day isolation for two years. It has been noted, by the auditors, that preventing access to the shortened rite would weaken jurisdiction; indeed, some have even said that the measure constitutes a real attack on the jurisdiction. We take into account these judgments that have been given by those who work within the judicial system. Among other things, the measure could also induce some magistrates to contest in an absolutely instrumental or forced manner the aggravated murder or in any case the crime punishable by life imprisonment, only to prevent access to the abbreviated rite; and to nothing would be worth the correctives that have been proposed. It has been said that this measure will have harmful effects because it will force the courts to clear themselves, in order to allow the formation of the courts of assizes, moving the judges, already in a small number, from the court to the courts, together with the staff. This will, of course, also have disastrous economic effects in a sector that is already down to the bone. You think that in order to make copies of the proceedings, you have to carry the paper with you. If you want to make a copy of a measure, an attorney must carry the paper with you: despite paying, you cannot have a copy if you do not carry the paper for the printer. Well, in this system, which has already been reduced in disastrous conditions, further new expenditure will be introduced on the budget of the justice sector, obviously with the weakening of the whole system, because then it will be necessary to add the payment of the expenses for the popular judges and alternates and for the administrative staff. Dr. Edmondo Bruti Liberati, who has already been mentioned several times, reported that until there was no abbreviated rite, there were five assize courts in Milan. Today there is only one, which works very well and concludes the processes in a period of time between three and four years. It will then happen that, as stated by the magistrate himself, the trials will certainly suffer a severe slowdown, with the possibility that the defendants will be released for the expiration of the terms of custody and will still create enormous inconveniences in the courts, where the trials will undergo great delays because the judges will have to be moved for the formation of the court of assizes. These are the effects that have abundantly predicted the subjects that have been audited. Obviously, these consequences will be considerably more serious in those courts, which are already staffed and which will still be in worse conditions for the necessary formation of the court of assizes, and this will happen several times than is happening now when it is possible to access the abbreviated rite. In fact, the government, with measures such as the one under consideration, is entering our democratic system with a tense leg. I have already said that it has tried and tried to systematically demolish the parliamentary system, with the adoption of texts that are sometimes not even known (think of the most striking case, namely that of the budget law). But this always happens, as always happens that they are never discussed with the opposition forces and in the Commissions, but that they are approved as is happening today: I will then talk about the damage that will be produced. Therefore, devastating effects are produced, because these measures are simply drawn up and approved as the Government wants them to be. At this point, of course, we are faced with another attack on the democratic system, because with this measure there is a clear attack on the judiciary. In fact, it turns its gaze and enters into the discretion of the judge. Discretion - living God! - as I said earlier in the explanation of vote on an amendment, it is in fact the main feature of the work of a magistrate, who is technically prepared, knows the acts and therefore knows how to correctly apply the law in order to ensure that justice is just and not just. It is therefore clear, once again, that there is an attack on the democratic system: first on the parliamentary system and now on the judiciary. Two of the State's powers are constantly being developed, with the adoption of such measures. On the other hand, we have said that the objective of this measure is an adequate response to the seriousness of the matter. We had proposed an amendment which alone would have sufficed, which Senator Valente explained and about which Senator Balboni spoke in her speech. With the adoption of that amendment, which has been proposed in the Commission and in this House and which has always been rejected, which is also the result of the suggestion of those who had been audited, it would have been avoided that the comparison and balance of circumstances would lead to the devastating effects that are taking place in many trials and which are leading to the condemnation of heinous and serious murders with a sentence of sixteen years. With the adoption of that amendment this could no longer have happened, but it is much better to make a commercial measure, it is much better to say "we are responding to the citizens' need for justice" rather than to do something concretely that would certainly have produced better results. On the other hand, a very brief consideration must also be given to the constitutionality of the measure, because I have many doubts about what the authoritative rapporteur and President Ostellari also said, which says that the measure is absolutely unassailable from the point of view of constitutionality. It seems to me at least a very daring statement, given the lack of provision for a transitional rule. In this sense, we must thank Senator Caliendo, who had introduced an amendment to avoid this consequence, but obviously that amendment, like all the others, was not adopted and was not even taken into account. The failure to provide for a transitional rule will certainly lead to a pronunciation of unconstitutionality, as had already happened when the abbreviated rite was introduced: preventing access to the abbreviated rite to those who are now awaiting trial in progress will certainly lead to a pronunciation of the Constitutional Court and we will not delay to see the results. It only remains to observe that doing the right things and in the right ways is not a habit of this Government. Better to continue with the campaign ads, better continue with the savior of the country who descends among the people to distribute kisses and collect selfies, trying to make forget the economic disaster in which our country is located. So go on collecting disasters, colleagues of the majority. Soon the Italians will realize what you have done and the disasters you are combining, which are now before everyone's eyes, and will force you to throw away the mask. For now we can only keep taking away your alibis and telling the Italians the truth. For these reasons, the Democratic Party will vote against the measure we are considering. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u80	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when I was preparing to speak for the explanation of vote, I went to look at the reasons why we came to want this regulatory change. Firstly, because we went to the citizens and told them that we would bring justice where there was no justice. In particular, having access to the abbreviated rite and a prize-giving rite, those who have been guilty of very serious crimes (I do not quote them, but have been repeated several times in this House) have been by us - and not only by us - considered absolutely out of place. The reasons why our Group, together with others, will vote in favour of this rule are of two orders. From a point of view of procedural policy we believe that the introduction of this rule does not affect the effects of true justice and legal certainty, because we believe that a judiciary that acts correctly and according to its powers will certainly be able to carry on the trials that see accused people who have very little to obtain from the legal order. It is enough for me to mention a few cases: during the hearings that we held big trials have been remembered and I quote only one because it invested in particular my land, Brianza: the famous infinite process. A huge, very important trial, which is mentioned precisely by those who have been audited as a trial in which most of the defendants have been able to enjoy the benefits of the shortened rite. Personally, I believe that, beyond procedural policy, these people have no right to access any prize-winning rite because the crimes committed are so serious and so important that we cannot allow them to be put in the background. We cannot allow even the passage from life imprisonment to 30 years of age to pass in society a negative message. On the other hand, we are in the Senate, we make the rules, we create the rule that then, however, must be implemented. This means that we cannot replace those who have to solve other types of problems. Before that, colleagues reported that the introduction of this rule would lead to problems from the point of view of judicial trafficking, but that is not the point; this is not the time when we have to intervene on these problems. Today we introduce a rule that underlines the principle of certainty of the penalty: those who are guilty of serious crimes must know that there is no type of discount. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We cannot allow even the message to pass on that these people, in one way or another, eventually somehow come out of it. No way. As politicians, as legislators, we must rather convey the message that those who commit a crime of a certain kind must pay; they must pay by serving the sentence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Then there is another principle, which has rightly been mentioned: in the constitutional context, the penalty must be aimed at re-education; but it must be a real, real re-education. I wonder what the re-education of those who have been guilty of murder, devastation, slaughter, a re-education that should of course come from the depths of the soul. Our most important principle is to give it to the community, who must know that certain types of crime must have a particular disvalue because otherwise we pass another message, that is, that everything is fine, that you can always and in any way get away with it. In foretelling, of course, the favorable vote by the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, we consider to emphasize that this rule will finally bring, on the one hand, more justice in the heart of those who have suffered crimes of a certain type; on the other hand, it will bring the certainty of the law, the certainty of the principle that those who commit a crime of that weight will certainly have the penalty provided for by the law, and there will be no excuses. Let's remember that one thing is reeducation, another thing is to pass the message that everything is so good. We are here to introduce a rule that will be observed by all citizens, and the result will be that, first of all, someone will have finally taken forward what was promised in the electoral campaign; secondly, someone will have finally brought legality into the streets and into the midst of the people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u83	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, colleagues, today I have heard of a number of problems, some of which do not relate to the measure we are discussing. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u84	I see that there are still some celebrations in the League Group for the previous speech, but I would ask you to respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u85	Please, Senator Caliendo, continue. CALIENDO (FI-BP). I am not a legalist, but at the same time I am inspired by the values of the Constitution that have just been recalled. I could never believe that in our country there could be a philosophy of criminal justice that admits a prison that never ends ("end of sentence: never," a very serious thing that runs counter to our Constitution) and that there is never a chance of redemption. This is our new system. What is justice? We have a Minister of Justice - not in prison - who represents the balance between the determination of the criminal responsibility carried out at a reasonable time and, at the same time, the imposition of a fair, just and consistent condemnation with the constitutional system, so that he gives the possibility to the individual who has been condemned not to re-educate himself, but to redeem himself. That is the philosophy of our system, but I have heard a number of discussions which have nothing to do with this measure. Of course, I know very well that from tomorrow morning we want those who commit rape or other violence to have life in prison: is this justice? No, it's an advertising campaign. It doesn't mean anything. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] We must create a system of guarantees, a procedural system that can respond to a certain need: as soon as possible the establishment of responsibility and a not long trial, so that we have the certainty of the penalty; this means that people and citizens can perceive as fair and equitable the penalty imposed a short time after the fact, not of years or decades, when then there is no more correspondence with the ideal substrate of the entire population. I cannot be told, as Senator Pillon does, that if there is a life sentence we must apply it, as if the thirty years planned with the reduction of the abbreviated rite or even the imposition of life imprisonment instead of life imprisonment with day isolation were penis for nothing. That's not the point. What is the problem that has been posed to you? And here, Minister, I would like to ask for a moment's attention on a problem that perhaps you should be more concerned about than I am: how long will this system lead to the lengthening of the process in general? As you know better than I, in Milan there were five assize courts before the introduction of the abbreviated rite for life, but today we find one; it's just an example, but we could look all over Italy. I wonder, therefore, if, in order to apply a rule only for an electoral spot - since before you were not pardoned with a small penalty - it is correct to extend the time of the other trials and the investigation of the case. If the blanket is that, it is not short, in this case: we make it short considering that we have to intervene with further procedural times, which are not necessary on the basis of the accusatory system of our country, which is based on the presence of alternative rites. In fact, without alternative rites the ordinary process does not work, as it lengthens the times. If the defendant is sentenced to life imprisonment ten years after the fact, the normal citizen who wants justice in a reasonable time will not have it. This is the most serious thing and there is no possibility of saying that this is not the case, because the determination of criminal liability according to established and reasonable times, as the Constitution wants, is only possible under certain conditions: the number of crimes and judges, trials and times. We are faced with an acclaimed situation of certainty: before the introduction of the abbreviated rite things worked in a certain way; after that there was a reduction in the procedural times, as a whole and not for these crimes. We do not understand that there is a confusion between a procedural rule and a substantive rule, as if we were discussing life sentence yes or life sentence no. On the other hand, we are discussing the possibility of applying the abbreviated rite to certain processes. Minister, I have awareness, experience and knowledge of the real and I believe I can say that an extension of the duration of the trials means bringing a barbaric system into our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For this reason, I must abstain, although I agree with the basic principles behind this rule, but not the wrong way of achieving them. Nicola Molteni, the first signatory of the measure, certainly has correct ideas in terms of the need to strike certain criminal phenomena. However, dear Nicola, those criminal phenomena are hit and must be struck through a rapid process, which can tell us who is responsible a few months after the fact. In this way, instead, we will have extended times to the maximum, without any certainty. Minister, allow me to correct this. Senator Pillon said that the judge will always be able to recover the possibility of applying the reduction of the sentence. This is not the case because the inadmissibility to contest the type of crime, if, during or at the end of the debate, he has considered or considers that there is no longer any possibility of contesting at the beginning, may determine the applicability of the abbreviated rite with respect to the new indictment. However, we are in a completely different situation: this is not the case according to the rules laid down. Mr President, I shall conclude. Minister, we must realize that we have a system that, thank God, assures our country of respect for the constitutional guarantees, which are also represented by the way in which the process is celebrated. If we go so far as to say that the abbreviated ritual does not apply to a certain kind of crime - today life imprisonment tomorrow - then - do you realize that, Minister? - there will be a different calibration of the judicial response compared to certain facts. In addition, the essential point is that this will lead to an extension of the time limits for the investigation which does not meet the requirements of justice. I am passionate about only one thing: I want there to be an assessment of responsibility. Anyone who commits a crime - whatever it may be, even the violation - must be punished, but punishment must be correct and fair! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It cannot be a punishment for such a thing: it must be fair. And fairness is not the law of the one who does not want to apply the substance of a rule: fairness means, no more or less, that the norm must be applied according to what is the common interpretation of the so-called good father of the family. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u86	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the teachers and students of the Department of Law - their presence is on the subject with the matter we are discussing - of the University of Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I also greet, with the same cordiality, the second group of teachers and students of the Institute including Dante Alighieri in Valderice, in the province of Trapani, who are also attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u89	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that today in this House we are remedying a very serious issue that has plagued our trial for so many years, namely the fact that very serious crimes such as those involving life imprisonment were judged not by the pre-established natural judge for these crimes by the code, namely the court of Assizes. These crimes - we must remember, as has been done well by those who preceded me - are very often particularly hateful, blood crimes, crimes against which in recent years we have seen citizens not share the sanctions that were imposed, because they clearly appeared disproportionate (in a reductive sense) and not proportionate to the crimes committed. In fact, there was a disproportion between the crimes committed and the penalty that followed. But the least that was tolerated by the citizens of this country is that the choice of this disproportion between the sentence and the fact for a large part was put back to those who were condemned for that fact. But there are other profiles as well. Very often blood crimes are complex crimes. It is not by chance that they have been put back by the legislator to the assessment of the Court of Assizes. These are crimes that require a weighting that has nothing to do with a lightening of the number of trials in the courts, which was the objective of the abbreviated judgment. They're crimes that require weighting, they're not just any crime. There are also further questions, however, which have convinced us of the goodness of this proposal, which, with Senator Stefani, we had already carried out in the last legislature in the Commission on justice and which had then fallen, namely the fact that these crimes can sometimes hide, behind an apparent simplicity, the complexities that only a real trial can face and not a shortened, hasty and limited trial such as that which takes place before the judge of the preliminary hearing. In fact, within the process, the real one could emerge serious facts, other responsibilities, for which it would be necessary to intervene in order to render justice to the victims, which does not happen with the abbreviated judgment. Our intention is, simply, to restore logic even within the judgements for these serious crimes. Let us go to a full process, with a broad debate, with the formation of the trial within the debate before the court of Assizes, without improperly using this instrument to escape their responsibilities. Today we dedicate this vote to all those who, in our country, have suffered very serious losses and have seen a state that could not sanction as it would have been right to do those responsible for such serious crimes. Our thoughts go to these people and this is our attempt to allow, in our country, those who commit serious crimes to respond in a serious and serious way. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u90	You asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, let's hear what the Minister has to say. If you speak on the measure, I will reopen the debate. Let's consider first what you have to tell us. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u91	Mr President, I would just like to thank the Senate and all the members of the Justice Commission for their contribution to this bill, which we consider very important. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u92	Senator Bellanova, your protest was unjustified, preventive and unjustified. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There can be no preventive protest when a minister asks to speak. That's just not possible. [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Pharaoh]] I am not defending a position of principle, I am doing the work of the Vice President protempore. BELLANOVA (PD). It is the prerogatives of the Senate that you must defend! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Again? I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 844, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 583. The rapporteurs, Senators Girotto and Pepe, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Girotto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will explain some of the measure, because another part will explain it to Senator Pepe. The text that we are about to examine today in this House is an important achievement for all of us and it is the result - let me say - of an intense work of the Movimento 5 Stars, which began already in the last parliamentary term. Connected to the bill n. 844 is, in fact, also the bill n. 583, at the first signature of Senator Riccardi. The class action is, in fact, the best tool with which to protect citizens and to ensure compensation for the damage suffered. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that on 11 April 2018 the European Commission presented a package of measures to update and improve existing consumer protection legislation, in particular by strengthening enforcement of judicial decisions and out-of-court redress of consumer rights and by facilitating the coordination and effective action of national consumer protection authorities. The package was named 'New Deal' for consumers and the Industry Commission approved resolution XVIII, No 3. The package consists of the following three documents: the Communication A " New Deal " for consumers (COM (2018) 183), non-legislative measure; the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (COM (2018) 184), on representative actions to protect the collective interests of consumers, repealing Directive 2009/22/EC, legislative measure; the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (COM (2018) 185), legislative measure, amending four Directives on the protection of the economic interests of consumers. The need to modernise certain rules on consumer protection and to strengthen the level of conformity was confirmed by an assessment carried out by the Commission in 2017 (the so-called REFIT adequacy assessment19 of the Consumer Rights Directive), which had also identified areas where EU consumer law could have been updated and improved. More in detail, the "New Deal " for consumers aims, among other things, to provide consumers with better access to redress through the exploitation of the full potential of the injunctions, in order to ensure that consumers have recourse to collective damage situations, as well as to take action to improve their knowledge of consumer rights and stimulate a new culture of compliance with EU legislation on consumer protection. Turning now to the substance of the measure, it should be recalled that the discipline of class action is currently governed by Article 140- bis of the Consumer Code (legislative decree No 206 of 2005). Up to now, this discipline has highlighted numerous criticalities in its practical operation, configuring it as an ineffective tool for collective compensation protection. The small number of actions promoted during these years, due to the times and costs of the procedure decidedly high and above all the difficult overcoming of the preventive assessment of eligibility of the proposed actions have led to the rewriting of the institute. The main objective of the Senate Act 844 is therefore to strengthen both the scope and scope, transferring the discipline of class action from the Consumer Code, where it is currently contained, within the Code of Civil Procedure, by the insertion of a new Title VIII-a, composed of Articles 840-a to 840-eedecies, relating to collective proceedings, class actions and collective injunction action. I would like to focus on the main innovations introduced by the draft law, before moving on to the description of the article, and I would like to point out first of all: the extension of the subjective scope, achieved through the provision of a general active legitimacy and no longer limited to the single category of consumers and users. To date, the characteristic of being an instrument addressed to a well-defined category of subjects was considered one of the elements that distinguished the class action of our ordering from the American class action. The widespread extension of the right to act means the possibility of using the collective protection instrument also by companies which have suffered injury as a result of harmful conduct carried out by large private or public undertakings. Up to now, the legislator's choice had been to limit this institution only to disputes involving consumers, and therefore to exclude the entire category of undertakings from the list of potential applicants. Therefore, by eliminating any reference to consumers and users, the action will always be open to all those who make claims for compensation in relation to harming homogeneous individual rights. The action will therefore be in the ownership of each member of the class, non-profit organisations or associations whose purpose is to protect these rights and who have entered themselves in a list. The second point concerns the extension of the instruments of protection: it also introduces, in the code, alongside class action, collective injunction action towards the perpetrators of harmful conduct of a plurality of individuals. Anyone having any interest, in addition to the aforementioned organizations and associations, may ask the court to order undertakings or bodies operating public utility services to cease a behaviour detrimental to a plurality of individuals and entities, committed in the course of their respective activities or the prohibition of repeating a commissioning or non-missive conduct. The third point concerns the new modalities of accession to the action: at present, the Consumer Code allows entry to the action only after the order allowing the action, but not following the judgment of substance. On the other hand, the reform under consideration provides that class action may be taken at the stage immediately following the order admitting the action. In this case, it will be the court that declares the application admissible to set a time limit and to define the characteristics of the homogeneous individual rights that allow inclusion in the class and that you can join the action even at a later stage, after the judgment that defines the judgment, and therefore ascertains the liability of the defendant. In this case too, it will be the court, with the decision that accepts the action, that assigns a deadline for accession. Turning now to the more detailed aspects, I would like to refer in particular to Article 840-mc, contained in Article 1 of the measure, which deals with another aspect not covered by the Consumer Code, regulating the transactive agreements between the parties. In particular, it is established that until the oral discussion of the case, the court may make a proposal to the parties that is transparent or conciliatory. Both the proposal and any agreement concluded are communicated through PEC or SERC to each member and published in the public area of the telematic portal. Accession to the Agreement shall be subject to access to the computer file. After the decision accepting the action, the joint representative of the members may conclude with the undertaking or with the public service or utility body a similar scheme of agreement of a transactive nature. The scheme included in the public area of the telematic portal must be communicated to the PEC address, or to the electronic certified delivery service indicated by each member. Within the next fifteen days, each member may enter in the computer file his or her reasoned objections to the scheme of agreement. In the case of members who do not dispute the scheme of agreement shall be deemed not to be contested. Within the next 30 days, the delegated judge, having regard to the interests of the members, may authorise the joint representative to conclude the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement concluded by the joint representative on the basis of the judicial authorization shall constitute an enforceable instrument and a title for the registration of a judicial mortgage. The same executive value has the settlement agreement to which the applicant adheres. The provision on settlement agreements shall also apply where the action is initiated by an organisation or association and the agreement may also refer to compensation for damage or refunds in favour of members who have accepted the agreement. We then have article 840-eedecies on collective injunction action which I briefly described earlier. So there are two additions to Articles 196 and 197b of the Code of Civil Procedure on Communications. Finally, the identification of the requirements, which will be made by the Ministry with a specific subsequent decree. I have a few more details, but as I have run out of time, I would ask that the report be submitted to the proceedings of the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u95	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u96	Mr President, I am speaking as far as the Justice Commission is concerned. The bill consists of seven articles. Article 1 introduces a new Title VIII-a of collective proceedings in the Code of Rite, composed of fifteen new articles. In detail, Article 840- bis extends the subjective and objective scope of class action. First of all, by eliminating any reference to consumers and users - given the new location of the discipline, removed from the consumer code - the action will always be open to all those who make claims for compensation in relation to harm of homogeneous individual rights. Moreover, the objective scope of the action is extended, which can be used to protect the subjective situations that have matured in the face of harmful conduct, to ascertain liability and to condemn damages and refunds. The text identifies as recipients of the class action undertakings and bodies managing public or utility services, in relation to acts and behaviour in the course of the activities. Article 840-b of the Code of Civil Procedure governs the form of the application and the judgment of admissibility. First, the court competent to know the class action is identified in the business section of the court (the so-called business court) of the place where the resistant party is established. The application shall be submitted by appeal and the summary procedure shall be applied. The reform shall set within 30 days the time limit within which the court must decide on the admissibility of the action and the decision shall take the form of the order; it shall also be published within 15 days on the aforementioned portal. The court may suspend the judgment when an investigation is being carried out before an independent authority or a judgment before the administrative court on the facts relevant to the decision. Article 840-b reproduces the causes of inadmissibility already covered by the Consumer Code. Class action is inadmissible when: it is manifestly unfounded; it lacks the requirement for uniform rights to be protected; the applicant is in conflict of interest with the resistor; it is proposed by a claimant who does not appear to be able to adequately take care of the homogeneous individual rights brought before the Court. Article 840-c governs the possible plurality of class shares having the same object. The provision provides that, sixty days after the publication of the appeal on the portal, further class actions based on the same facts and directed against the same resistant, may not be presented, subject to cancellation from the role and non-resumption. In the case of class actions proposed between the date of filing of the appeal and the 60-day deadline, they shall be brought together in the main action. The prohibition shall not apply if the original class action is declared inadmissible or is defined by a measure which does not decide on the substance of the action. The reform is without prejudice to the feasibility of class actions to protect rights which could not be invoked differently at the end of that 60-day period. Articles 840-d and 840-e govern the procedure and the judgment granting class action. In this context, the new modalities of accession to the action, which currently the Consumer Code provides as possible only after the order allowing the action, but not following the judgment of substance, are of fundamental importance. The reform provides that accession can take place at two different times: in the phase immediately following the order that admits the action or at the stage following the judgment that defines the judgment. With regard to the investigation of the case, Article 840-d defines the procedures for admission and display of evidence, providing that the civil court may apply administrative fines (from 10,000 to 100,000 euros) - to be given to the Cassa delle fines - both to the party who refuses without justified reason to present the evidence, both to the party or to the third party who destroys evidence relevant for the purposes of the judgment. The judgment issued by the court of the companies, which accepts the class action, has the nature of ascertaining the liability of the resistant, defines the characteristics of the homogeneous individual rights that allow the inclusion in the class, identifying the documentation to be produced by the members. In addition, with the judgment, the court provides in respect of claims for damages and restitutions only if the action is proposed by a person other than an organization or an association. They are also appointed by the judgment: a delegated judge, to manage the accession procedure and to decide on the liquidations and a joint representative of the members. The modalities of accession are indicated by the following Article 840-f of the Code of Civil Procedure, which outlines a computerised procedure within the telematic services portal managed by the Ministry of Justice. The next stage of class action shall be governed by Article 840-g of the Code of Civil Procedure. Synthetically, the procedure provides that within one hundred and twenty days of the expiry of the deadline to join the action - and therefore after the submission of applications for membership - the resistant has the possibility to take a position on each application by depositing defensive memory. The facts deduced by the adherent and not specifically contested by the resistor within the time limit will be given for admission; within the next ninety days, the common representative of the members prepares and deposits a plan of homogeneous individual rights taking a position on each individual application; the project is communicated to the adherents and the resistor. For the assessment of the facts deducted from each of the members, the common representative may ask the court, if necessary, for the appointment of experts; within 30 days of the notification of the project the members may file further documentation and observations; finally, the delegated judge decides, by reasoned decree, on the acceptance, even partial, of the applications for membership and condemns the resistance to the payment of the sums due to each member. The decree of the judge shall constitute an executive title and shall be communicated to the members, the resistor, the common representative and the lawyer defending the actor. In favour of the defender of which the adherent has availed himself, a compensation is due which will be determined by decree of the Minister of Justice. If the resistant voluntarily arranges the payment, he shall pay the sums due in a bank or postal bank account in the name of the procedure; it shall be for the court to order the payment of the sums on the basis of the recovery plan drawn up by the common representative, as provided for in Article 840-duodecies of the Code of Civil Procedure. If, on the contrary, the resistant does not comply, the forced execution procedure may also be carried out in collective form through the joint representative, pursuant to Article 840-terdecies. [[Recalls of the President]] The closure of the procedure for accession to the action shall take place: where the allocations to members made by the joint representative reach the full amount of the credits of the same members; where during the procedure it appears that it is not possible to achieve a reasonable satisfaction of the claims of the members, even taking into account the costs which it is necessary to bear (Article 840-ddecies). Article 840- novies of the Code of Civil Procedure regulates the compensation deriving from the so-called lite quota, that is, a sum which, following the decree of the delegated judge, the resistor must correspond to the common representative of the adherents and the defender of the applicant. This is a further compensation, therefore, compared to the sum that the resistor will have to pay to each adherent as compensation. The judicial authority may also increase or reduce - not more than 50% - the amount of compensation paid on the basis of the following criteria: complexity of the assignment, recourse to the work of coadjutors, quality of the work carried out, promptness with which the activity was carried out. [[Call the president back.]] I'm finishing, Mr. President. Articles 840-decies and 840-decies concern appeals. Article 840- decies provides for the publication, in the public area of the telematic portal of the Ministry of Justice, of the acts of appeal of the judgment that accepts the class action, and of the measures that decide on the appeals. The appeal must be brought within 30 days of the notification of the measure. The defendant, the joint representative and the lawyers entitled to the fee may appeal under Article 840-novies; the latter may object only for reasons relating to the remuneration and expenses paid. The provision specifies the necessary contents of the appeal and provides that by decree the hearing is fixed within forty days from the filing; the court decides by reasoned decree within thirty days from the audience of the parties, confirming, modifying or withdrawing the decree under appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u97	I am quite intransigent about relationships, because you have the time and need to coordinate. , rapporteur. I'm done, Mr. President, thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u98	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we obviously welcome the spirit and substance of this measure, which follows a previous speech from the last parliamentary term, on which we had worked very positively and which, of course, we voted on. We have tabled a few amendments in the Commission, but they have all been rejected. We regret this, because we have been deprived of any possibility of contributing to the improvement of the measure, which we would have liked to make more effective and more calibrated under those delicate aspects in our system, which is not a system of common law and which nevertheless transposes a series of demands, in the changing world and - here it is said, almost always, because here it is really relevant - in the globalized world, in the globalized economy and in the fate of subjective rights in the globalized world. I was saying that this is a measure that extends access to justice by Italian citizens and the first observation to make is that overcoming the more restrictive term of "consumers" is also important and a certain importance. I, in general, like to talk more about citizens than consumers, not just for an elegance of diction, but for the concept that bears the idea of a citizen and for the rights that this concept implies. What is the positive point that we stress and why, in essence, we are in favour of it? In this changing world there are more and more rights that, due to their small content, cannot be enforced by those who could operate them or who still see a very large disproportion between those who could access the law and the counterpart. In this respect, I would also like to stress - not to mention the merits, but to say that the consistency of the paths has its own reason - that having established the business court, which has a very specific competence in the field, was a very important thing, because this type of competence and the centralization of this type of case makes the justice service not only more effective from the point of view of time, but also makes it better, because it is targeted and coordinated. Despite a closure which we do not believe is justified by the Government and the majority in relation to our amendments, we feel that this law is also the result of our work. The effect that we would like to achieve is precisely to push the business world to change those behaviors that are potentially detrimental to the rights of consumers and citizens in general. We therefore believe that this is an appropriate measure and we believe it is right to have introduced some exceptions to a general principle of the functioning of the civil process, for example by introducing a new overall rule within the Code, which introduces some particularities and some exceptions, aimed at guaranteeing this protection. That is why we have spoken again after a legislative intervention, which had been made in the previous parliamentary term. Therefore, in order to strengthen this instrument, a possibility of accession has been introduced after the judgment that accepts the application and this is one of the most striking innovations, because in this way the instrument comes out strengthened in its effectiveness. A compromise is introduced between the so-called opt-in modalities, that is, the preventive mode of accession, which is typical of the continental civil law systems like ours, and the opt-out mode, which instead is the one that provides the extension towards all the members of the class, which is characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon systems and therefore of the common law systems, which in some way has determined the greatest success of this type of protection in those countries. In order to achieve a balance, although this exception has been introduced, there are limits to membership, because the issue is the exception to the principle of the effectiveness of judgments and the judgment: there is in fact a time limit and not only to be able to access it. Therefore, for our particular and peculiar procedural order, other exceptions have been introduced to the principle of contradictory, in addition to that of the effectiveness of the judgment. We would have liked - and our amendments in this respect - that no exceptions should be introduced to the principle of the acquisition and formation of evidence. It seemed to us and still seems to us - and so we trust in a rethink of this House - that we cannot go any further, precisely in the light of our system. Of course, it is always good to look at the experiences of other countries, but when changes are introduced in a system that is completely different, we must realize that there is a balance that is maintained, that must always be for the benefit of justice, the rights of citizens and the procedural parts, which are of course the citizens. So when you take elements from other systems and disciplines, which have other counterweights that we don't have, you always have to act very carefully. This seemed to us to be an excessive forcing and we continue to trust that the government and the majority can have a second thought. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u99	Colleagues, let the last two minutes of Senator Rossomando's intervention take place with a minor buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u100	Mr Rossomando (PD). Thank you, Mr President. Coming to the conclusion, the rapporteur mentioned the recent European directive of April 2018, because a package of measures was presented to update and improve existing consumer protection legislation, which has been called the "New Deal" for consumers, precisely to ensure that European consumers enjoy the full rights recognised by EU legislation. There are several proposals within this package, which should be carefully looked at, including monitoring the rules that we are going to introduce, with respect to both internal and external effectiveness. Therefore, in order to remain in Europe and without crossing the ocean, a link and attention to the new disciplines contained in the European directive would be most appropriate for this type of protection. These are rules that are coming and that will have a huge impact on the matter and perhaps it would have been appropriate (already there) to coordinate the work of the Senate with those in progress at Community level in order to avoid having to change the rules further. I do not want to introduce an artificially controversial vein, but when we look at Europe lately little we are concerned about getting together to have more and often we are absent where we need it. We are talking about rules that impact a lot on the lives of citizens and the business system. Finally, Mr President, the issue of the eligibility of rights is a subject of extraordinary modernity. We in the Democratic Party have it at heart and we think it is the centre of the problem of modernity and the pursuit and implementation of the principle of equality in the changing society: not only attributing rights, but making them enforceable is the theme of the themes. That is why we have looked with interest and contributed to the formation of this set of rules and we trust that it can be further improved. As always, with this attitude and in this way, we want to stress the centrality of Parliament, which we all hold, and we trust you can also hold all of you in the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u102	Mr President, today we are dealing with a measure to which we have a great deal and unfortunately, once again, the haste and the will to achieve completion, whatever it may be, leaves us with great regret to note that in the face of a serious and current issue, which affects the people's skin and affects our legal culture, in order to make an electoral ad, we did not want to face a confrontation and a debate that, fully, deepening the matter with the attention it deserves, would have led to a measure on class action. This had to be properly regulated, but it also required a more complete response. 7:13 p.m. (Following Words). The debate in the House has been postponed by the Commission to the House and here too the measure has arrived armored, unable to modify the text - which unfortunately happens now more and more often - because it had to be approved and a third reading avoided. We are being taken away from the possibility of giving those answers which we needed to provide in order to perfect a text and make it better. Here too, a real and existing problem, a problem such as the protection of citizens and consumers, unfortunately will have an inadequate response, a response in half, a response which, on the one hand, risks confusing from a legal point of view and, on the other hand, does not address the issue with respect for the business and production world. It also happened with the income of citizenship. There is poverty: we give citizenship income. There is a theme with respect to class action: we apply the bill Bonafede that, while changing the first signatory, so came to the House and so comes to us. Fast and non-comparison; no real comparison that unfortunately gave birth to an inadequate and even dangerous instrument. Our country would need an industrial and energy plan able to attract companies even from abroad, to attract those industrial presences we need and facilitate their birth: that they come from other countries or that this can happen within our business system. With the bill before us - we must be aware of this - we will remove foreign investment and certainly discourage domestic investment. This, unfortunately, because Italy, with a measure not done like this, risks being a country where companies are penalized, where there is no answer to those certainties that a legal system of companies instead asks us. Too many things did not want to correct. Class action should be reserved for contractual liability only, resulting in a resolution of the objective scope of application. Late membership, as planned, shows a strong punitive aim towards companies. This must be clear and corrected as soon as possible. In the same way, the provision requiring the defendant to advance expenditure is clearly not justified, just as the obligation to pay a premium compensation in addition to compensation for the damage or the right to act to anyone having interest in it is not justified, since it is likely to render less concrete the one which as a class action cannot protect individual interests. The text is too unbalanced, as I said, to the detriment of companies, to create at the same time distortions to the detriment of citizens: there is no equity and balance; too many criticalities, too many ideological preconceptions. We confirm and support the importance of the measure; we continue to believe that the answers should be given, but, as I have already said, the answers had to be better, more appropriate. In short, we could and should have approved a measure that could serve the citizens and the country. On the other hand, it was decided with great haste - it happens always in this deadline - and without the necessary confrontation and refinement, which was possible, to approve a measure that risks being mostly at the service of the upcoming electoral campaign. Perhaps a third reading would have sufficed with the correction of some points, as I said, and a more complete sharing so that this bill could also be accepted by our business community and our citizens, who are consumers, with a wider consensus and with an adequacy than the answers we are called to give. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u104	Mr President, Senator Paroli has just outlined a number of problematic points in the draft law; we will listen to others from those who will also speak on the many amendments tabled by the Forza Italia Group. These problematic points will also, of course, have very important practical consequences. The problem, in fact, is not closed in the courts, but affects the whole Italian market. We are very much in favour of measures to protect consumers. Today it is increasingly difficult for consumers to deal with their counterparts, i.e. those who sell services or goods, because very often they do not deal with human beings but with call centers rather than with huge companies that often have headquarters and respond from abroad, and that also enter into our daily lives. Therefore, it is right to provide tools compared to cases where there are companies dealing with consumers, sell goods or services and systematically introduce mechanisms to extort money and offer less services than promised and therefore what is paid compared to the legitimate expectations of the consumer. It is therefore right to have measures that compensate for an imbalance that exists, one way or another, for the size and power of certain companies compared to the individual consumer and, in another respect, perhaps even more specific: very often these real generalised scams are things of a few euros for the consumer, but of course added to those of the various thousands, hundreds of thousands or, at times, millions of consumers give a huge profit to the company. Consequently, for it there is the possibility and the strong incentive to implement these unfair conducts. It is therefore right to introduce measures to reduce this imbalance. The imbalance, however, must not be reversed, because it requires balance and measure in things. What Senator Paroli said just now has shown that there is not that balance here, but a punitive attitude towards companies, which will have a number of consequences. We cannot introduce a new rule and think that everything remains the same today, except for a modification or intervention (which, in this case, is consumer protection). Evidently, with respect to the law, there will be behaviours that are reformed and modified in accordance with the rules that are introduced. For example, as has already been said almost explicitly in the rules, there will be those who will organize themselves to go looking for ways to put on a class action by profession, since the bill also specifies how much the organizer of these actions will earn. For God's sake, it is right that someone who renders a service to others should be paid, but we must ensure that it really is a service. All this will cause almost caricature situations so we must start to affix on any item for sale, for example, those written that we often see in certain cartoons that make irony about it - I mean the "Simpsons" - like "Do not inhale" or "Do not ingest" on a motorbike. In fact, if someone, thinking of ingesting a motorbike, was already hurt only with the handlebars and there was no written "Don't inhale" or "Don't ingest" then there would be someone among those who do such actions by profession that will encourage anyone to engage in such disputes. It seems paradoxical, but it is and we are already beginning to have similar things. As Senator Rossomando said, who intervened before me, there is an imbalance, so we cannot think of introducing a measure in Italy without the counterweights that exist in other countries. We must be careful, therefore, not to do unbalanced things, because the imbalance that would arise would certainly have an effect for someone - often quite rightly - a refund; but probably those who enter the Italian market, bearing in mind this imbalance situation, will start to raise prices. And it will not be a company, but the whole market sector that is considered at risk of being hit by unbalanced measures. And these measures are all the more effective the more the company is linked to Italy. In fact, a company that produces and sells to a large extent or totally in Italy will be particularly cautious, while a company that can turn to markets in various countries may perhaps assume a greater risk. In other words, Italy which has already become a non-production-friendly country - it is not an opinion, but it can be seen from the data on industrial production and gross domestic product, which have been negative and worsening since this Government - will also become unfavorable as a market. The consequences of this will be paid by all consumers, including those not cheated. First of all, we risk an increase in prices and a reduction in supply, as it will be less those who want to go to the Italian market. In fact, if the subjects come to Italy to cheat, then they stay somewhere else. But if the risk is too high, the protections are unbalanced and the risk for the company is disproportionate to the profit it can make, then someone will withdraw and, therefore, there will be less possibility for consumers to have certain services that can be obtained today and that in other countries you can continue to have. A second point that I would like to highlight is that, among those with whom class action can be taken, private companies and public service providers are mentioned, but not public administration. The bank must be punished, for example, that credit every accountant a cost of 20 euros with some mysterious cause (we know that these cases have happened). The eccentricity of the currentists will wonder what this is due to, but, having no time to deepen (maybe because it should take a day off), will leave it alone. Someone else, on the other hand, will protest and will be returned by the bank the 20 euros. The bank, however, will hold 20 euros of all other accountants who have not protested. Colleagues, but when the public administration sends out the so-called crazy folders, it's the same thing; or when certain municipal administrations systematically do unfounded fines, it's the same thing; when you send a preprinter always the same as anyone who wants to resort to a road ticket, it's the same thing. On the contrary, the public administration, unfortunately, adopts this practice more than others. The fact that we can protect ourselves with respect to the small commercial and producer, but not to the public administration, which is much, but much more powerful than all the producers and traders of Italy, represents a serious vulnus of this measure, which should be filled. Amendments have been tabled, which I hope will be accepted, although I fear not, because there has been - as always - a blindfolding by the majority, which does not accept suggestions. It seems that this has happened in the House, while here I do not think there has been an equal attitude (in fact, it has been prevented from carrying out due auditions). Meanwhile, we will act, as always, in the interests of the Italians, whether they are consumers, producers or traders. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u105	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Department of Political and Legal Sciences of the University of Messina, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u106	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u107	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, talking about legislation on class action and its shift from the consumer code to the more general code of conduct is certainly an important moment for the law of our country. However, one point remains open, which has already been highlighted by my previous colleagues, which cannot fail to raise a careful and correct legislator (because we are or at least should strive to be at this time). I refer to the correct balance between rights and obligations and to the proper consideration within it of the rights of all those involved in a legal measure (consumers, as well as entrepreneurs). It seems to me that balance - but it is not just my impression, I repeat, because I have just heard it repeated in this House - has been partly lost in this case. Who, for example, pays for the image damage of the enterprise? However, the citizens ask the legislator for just laws and as such they cannot be unbalanced in one sense or another, because we visualize well the representation of justice that in one hand has the sword to punish and in the other has a balance that must always be in perfect balance. As I said, the citizens ask the legislator for just laws and as such they cannot be unbalanced in one sense or another, because even those who do business and produce, generate jobs and are courageous have the right, for their part, to have laws that guarantee it and that do not consider the entrepreneur, regardless, someone who is criminal or is in bad faith or necessarily in dole and that therefore guarantee it and not that, according to the sentiments of the moment, they propose themselves as vexing instruments or as a sword of Damocles fixed with a hair on those who do business. It seems to me that in this provision the sense of balance between interests, the sense of the right relationship between the parties, what makes a law a just law is not there. It seems to me that in this proposal, if we place the duties and rights of the parties on the balance of justice, it hangs heavily on the one hand and this makes this proposal a proposal which, starting from a very fair principle, which we share (we have been among the first in the past, since 2005-2006, to invoke it) will produce, as it is formulated, unfair effects. A similar law is not a good law and is not the product of a good legislator. It is for this reason that, although we share the inspirational element and indeed are willing to reason within a proposal that keeps the scales of justice in balance (I said that we would even be willing to reason for punitive damage) we cannot, in the face of this measure, in terms of how it was formulated and how we are asked to vote on it today, express our consent. Of course, a nice class action of the ones you are introducing with this measure the citizens could try to promote it, maybe the citizens for whom you will not find the funds to hire them as navigator or the many who are in ranking in public announcements, or the citizens resident in Amatrice or L'Aquila that wait for the public interventions, or the citizens who are suffering the harmful economic effects of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, that, however, will be very happy when they will see the members of the government arrive without resources but on blazing blue cars to tell the usual stories; or not, because the President of the Council, the Prime Minister Conte has announced the decree to cut the ban of blue cars. It seems, however, yet another initiative similar to No TAV. In this case, I start the parliamentary action, the parliamentary action, that is to say the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars tell us how much it will cost in terms of penalties such an operation, that is how much money the Five Stars want to waste to cover for the umpteenth time with the demagogy that they got caught with their fingers in the jam. At least they are consistent and cover the damage by giving up their allowances up to the amount. Aren't they the first to say that wrongdoers have to pay? Because governing is responsibility. Lawmaking is responsibility but, above all, governing is lawmaking by making good laws, just laws, fair laws, that are not translation into rules of electoral proclamations, thrown down in haste and fury without considering all the effects and the necessary balances. When a law begins to be miswritten it will continue to be miswritten and become a bad law, as for a subject at school. If I can't get the bad copy, I'd better throw it in the trash can and start over with the white paper. And this is also the case with the bill on class action that - I apologise - I find it hard to call class action in this sense, as it is conceived here, as it evokes more "The Capital" of Marx than a standard for consumer protection. Here too, even when defining a body of legislation, we see the attention of the legislator. Why not call it collective compensation action or collective action to protect the consumer or otherwise? This is certainly not the place to find a right name, but it is certainly the place to make some consideration about a definition that, inserted in our code, sounds really bad in a country that for millennia has been the cradle of law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u108	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I understand that this is not the best time. I also understand that the subject may seem a bit boring, but the treatment that my previous colleagues, from Senator Paroli to Senator Malan and Mr Gallone, have put in their speeches should lead to a moment of attention. This measure that we are going to approve presents some critical issues. I want to pre-empt something. The consumer code was approved in 2010 also thanks, and above all, to the center-right government, to the Berlusconi government. Therefore, those who speak to you do not belong to a political force, to understand themselves, anti-consumers or, in any case, against actions to protect the consumer. The problem is that here, from consumer protection, there has been a completely unbalanced situation with regard to associations that protect or should protect consumers. There are some points that are extremely critical and that are likely to penalise companies objectively too much. I list them briefly, because they were also touched by the previous Members. There is one issue which concerns, as Mr Gallone rightly pointed out, the damage to the image. There is even provision for the payment of the lawyer's expenses in the event that the company is unsuccessful, with a premium. Now, I'm a lawyer and, therefore, this may be acceptable, but you have to explain to me why only in this process is a measure of this kind possible. If, on the other hand, the court declares class action inadmissible, there is nothing in this case. I'm not talking about a charge. It would be sufficient, as we have also proposed, at least to publish in the media the news that the action has been rejected. This is because there is an objective problem of damage to the image. Then, however, there is another issue that Senator Caliendo has repeatedly stressed in the Commission. It is the question of the fact that one can adhere to this class action once it has been admitted, i.e. post-judgment. Which means that for a company it becomes an exponential problem from a cost point of view. So much so that it comes out, even, a kind of procedure like that of bankruptcy for the distribution of what are the expenses. So, I can understand that there have been some striking cases - we mention, for example, the issue of Volkswagen, or the question of Facebook data - but alongside the multinationals there are the normal companies that would not be able to withstand such an impact on the compensation action and not even against that injunction. The last concept I wanted to hang up briefly is the overall problem of defining compensation because class action is not based on contract liability. Let's say, for example, that I have a contract with Enel or with a gas delivery company; the contractual injury determines a contractual liability. In this case no, it is different; it is an action that is expected without limitations. There is an alleged non-contractual liability resulting in compensation for the damage, so you understand that the figures become incredible. At first I said that there is also a imbalance and a lack of equity in all this because these class actions can be carried out by individuals, but also by representatives of associations. At a time when these associations promote action, there is no need for an express mandate. So, how can you imagine a building for which a representative without the individual's mandate takes compensation? Be careful because there is a great deal of imbalance and it is more than possible for such legislation to be used not only for consumers - which we believe is sacrosanct and legitimate - but also for an attack on competition or for actions that are exquisitely instrumental because so much those who do it risk nothing. For businesses, having to go to court does not act as a deterrent and does not solve such a problem. We repeat what has already been said to the House, where at least we have been able to intervene in terms of amendments: it would be necessary and appropriate, in our humble opinion, for measures of this kind not to follow the practice whereby, since they have been approved in the House, the Senate cannot be touched. Indeed, we could have done a further improvement work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u110	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u111	Mr President, this is one of those frequent cases in this parliamentary term in which we offer technical cooperation which is rejected. I don't understand why. I'm gonna make you laugh because there are some things that are a little bit of flowers. Regardless of the fact that we talk about class action - which translated into Italian becomes class action, which is a bit different - this class action then becomes only to protect rights. In the Anglo-Saxon countries, where this action has existed for years, it is primarily to protect legitimate interests. But these legal positions are being held out here. Second aspect: the action is carried out only in front of the section specializing in the matter of enterprise that, for the successive changes, is identified in three courts of our country: those of Milan, Rome and Naples. I don't think it's that easy to do class action. I also note that the text is misspelled. It is written - I have had to read it thirty times - when a technical consultant is appointed, the obligation to anticipate the expenses and the down payment on the fee payable to the latter are placed (...) at the expense of the resistant person. Everyone knows that in any case the costs of the technical consultant are borne jointly by both parties, then, with the final judgment, it will be who loses the cause that will also have to pay the expenses of the other party. However, the statement I have just read appears to be the philosophy of the person who thinks that the action is against the entrepreneur and therefore it is the defendant who is responsible. Even in this slightest diction there is something squealing with the general principles. However, it is even more ridiculous not to comply with the obligation; the fact that the entrepreneur does not pay is not a reason to give up the position of the technical consultant, who carries out an office in the process. That is no reason to give up. It is normal, but it means that the judge will take enforcement measures - not on nothing, it is said - so that the technical consultant is paid because he carries out an activity requested by the parties and deemed necessary by the judge. Otherwise he would not serve. I have another question for you. Do some calculations of how much it costs the common representative to spend. No more math. To give an example, the text states: "over 1,000,000, not exceeding 0.5 per cent" therefore the lowest percentage, so it would already be several hundred thousand euros. The basic problem is that there is also the possibility of increasing the compensation by 50%. I have tabled an amending proposal to correct this point, but nothing has been said about it except: "Against" opinion. This was the correction of certain points which had to be corrected in order to make the measure more "digestible" as a whole. It is said "class action started by a single citizen."I understand the action taken with an association, with a class, but we imagine the action begun by a citizen, who considers his right to be homogeneous with that of others; at that point, others existing in the country, through the advertising of this action carried out at the Ministry of Justice, adhere. Well, you could say they cost, even if they don't have great power, at least they have some advantage of joining first. No, because, if they wait to join, they can wait for the judge to declare eligibility, identify the characteristics of class action and members and determine which they can join and at that point they adhere. Do you realize that? I recognize that in the last legislature this topic was raised not only by the offices of the Senate and the Chamber, but also correctly by the Movimento 5 Stars, who wondered why members should not join immediately before, or, if they even want to guarantee the certainty of acceptance of membership, they can do so later, but only once. These are rules of procedural economy that serve to lighten the system and ensure greater functionality. This class action should mean that without resorting to dozens of repetitive judgments we make only one, but it has those characteristics. First of all, it is doubtful whether you can operate it, because it is the first time that a class action can be activated by an individual. I have tried to verify in the comparative legal system whether there are other countries in which the class action undertaken by the individual is envisaged and not through an association; it may exist, but I have not found it. We need a minimum of reflection. These are some points that should have been dealt with in a calm and correct debate, between people who grasp the possibilities of finding compromise solutions to achieve a functional law. Has it been possible to do so, Mr President, or has it also been prevented from discussing the formalities which can also accompany our way of working? I always think that it is preferable to discuss even half an hour more in order to prevent the adoption of rules that give enormous legal expectations, but they are reduced to very little, not only because sometimes those wrong-written rules are then annulled by the Constitutional Court, but also because the rules are inefficient in achieving the results they aimed at and proposed to individual citizens. I have only highlighted some inconsistencies - and I am not going to point out others - that, however, they could be corrected in order to enact a law that would identify serious class action to guarantee legitimate rights and interests. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u112	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the draft law before us deals with class action, the so-called class action, and, as you will recall, it has already been approved by the House of Deputies in recent months. As we know, the class action consists of a legal action of collective compensation protection, through which a small number of consumers and users, as owners of homogeneous individual rights, acts in court in their own name or in representation of many other subjects, who do not participate in the process, but with whom they share the same type of damage and demands. This legal instrument was created to avoid the repetition of innumerable identical judgments, to discourage unfair practices by large companies often multinational to the detriment of consumer citizens, facilitating the proposition of claims for damages which, if considered individually, are small, while if considered as a whole, they have the possibility to place companies in front of their real, and also considerable, economic responsibilities, since in the absence of class action the injured would be forced to renounce to assert their rights, as any individual actions would be excessively complex and expensive and therefore very often impractical. At present in Italy the class action is already foreseen and regulated by Article 140- bis of the Consumer Code, but so far the application problems have been considerable that have severely limited its effectiveness. Ten years after the birth of this instrument of collective compensation protection, the number of actions promoted has turned out to be small and, according to data of the National Observatory antitrust, only one in two cases is admitted to trial and only one in every seven succeeds in obtaining compensation. This is because of the times and costs, which are very high, and above all important stops of eligibility and bureaucracy, which are difficult to manage. This led to the emergence in citizenship of the urgent request for a rewriting of the institute, which was basically written in order not to work. The motion, we of the Movimento 5 Stars, instead, have collected and brought it here, from the territories to this Assembly, to Rome, to make it really work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The aim of the measure under discussion is to reform the institute of class action by bringing it back from the code of consumption to the code of civil procedure, extending its subjective scope and extending its instruments of protection, improving its validity and effectiveness and making the institution as a whole more incisive and application simpler. The class action, thus reworded, aims to become a real synonym of guarantee for citizens. The text we are debating today is not even new. In fact, it follows in substance the provision already presented, again by the Movimento 5 Stars, in the past legislature and unanimously approved in the Chamber, except then to be dormant, once transmitted to the Senate, probably due to lack of courage by the majority forces that governed the country then. The Senate, therefore, today is called not to make the same mistake as the recent past; it is called to the sense of responsibility for a measure that aims to strengthen the institution of class action in favour of citizens, but also of companies, which have been severely damaged by unfair commercial, business and economic actions, especially the smaller ones, which suffer the influence of multinationals. The enormous contractual power of the latter, in fact, determines on some occasions an abuse of dominant position, which damages the work of Italian entrepreneurs and those who invest with courage and sacrifice in our territories. In fact, while the unfair behaviour of some telephone companies, for example to users, or to commercial companies towards citizens who have purchased a defective or dangerous product and who have been the victims of contractual defaults, is not known, on the other hand, the difficulties of many companies in the territory in the relationship with large multinational companies, which act as master in some sectors of the market. One example is the agricultural companies, which purchase products and supplies from important international realities and which very often have been subjected to the decisions of the latter, as they are unable to defend themselves adequately, especially because of the lack of information that these parties decide to provide. Ladies and gentlemen, approving this measure is important, because it really protects the potential damaged, because it provides them with a number of fundamental instruments to defend themselves. Some examples. The 5 Star Movement has always focused on extending the use of technology to increase information, participation and simplification of procedures. In this text, through the provision of dedicated Internet portals, we give everyone the opportunity to quickly and easily inquire about the ongoing procedures, exponentially increasing the possibility to participate. In this direction of widening effectiveness, for the Movimento 5 Stars, the new modalities of adhesion to the action are also important, which currently the Consumer Code provides as possible only after the order that admits the action, but which now becomes possible also following the judgment of merit, which accepts the action, recognizing the possibility to those who are late or were not informed not to be excluded from the right refreshment. And again, among other numerous predictions that make the measure more incisive, extending the instruments of protection, I highlight the prediction that it introduces, alongside class action, the collective injunction action, which allows the judge to order the cessation of improper behavior, even omissive, detrimental of a plurality of subjects, or the prohibition of their recurrence. Finally, let us not forget the forecasts which increase the effectiveness of the collection, since the very useful procedure of enforced execution, carried out in collective form against those who do not pay. Finally, and finally, always in acceptance by the Movimento 5 Stars of requests coming from citizenship, we also aim at a greater efficiency of the times. On this subject, I would like to stress the expectation of the competent judge in this kind of trial, who will be a magistrate of the business court. This means relying on a specialized figure, speeding up the cause and not weighing down the work of ordinary sections. Therefore, to reformulate the class action means to accept the requests strongly expressed by Italian citizens to restore the sense of justice, protecting the weakest or those who have less contractual power than others, and also means to give back to the community the sense of a state that has at heart the protection of the interests of its citizens, who supervises the proper functioning of the free market and that in concrete terms is strongly attentive and close in the search for the greater quality of life of citizens (finally, I am happy). In conclusion, as a Member of the Movimento 5 Stars, considering that this measure represents an important step forward for our system, a step forward with civilization, I hope that it will be fully approved. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u114	The general debate is closed. As agreed between the Groups, I refer the continuation of the discussion of draft laws to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u117	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, today is the World Day of Autism Awareness, an important day. However, I would like to remind all of us that we must be aware of this particular condition not only on 2 April, when this day is celebrated, but every day of the year. I would then like to recall two important initiatives that have developed in our country and have received important attention even outside the borders of our country. The first is the initiative "Il Tortellante" (Il Tortellante), which has developed in Modena and which involves 24 guys who produce tortellini and fresh pasta, who have managed to develop a path that sees them integrated in the world of work and that allows many other people to be aware of this reality. The other important project is "PizzAut", a project that will be born at the beginning of 2020 in Cassina de' Pecchi, in the province of Milan, a pizzeria that will be managed by about twenty young people. This project has also received important attention, because it has won an innovation award thanks to a collaboration with an important international company that deals with computer science, which has produced a specific tablet to allow these guys to take orders of pizzas in a facilitated way. Therefore, by touching on the subject of awareness, Mr President, I would ask you to act through the Presidency Council in order to be able to develop this proposal. These initiatives can be replicated, they are initiatives that on the territories can see families and institutions involved, to allow these children to have an important future, like so many other workers, and not to be locked in the home, allowing the families of these children to have future and hope. So, why don't we invite the participants of these two projects to the Senate cafeteria and let these guys see, who will be interested among us senators (maybe also inviting some local administrators), what can be done by putting together intelligence, wisdom, availability and skills of these guys? They have skills to express and develop. It would be nice - an important gesture on our part, to express this awareness and enhance these people - to be able to invite these young people to the Senate and present their projects as wide as possible of senators and administrators. [[Applause from the PD Group and undersecretary Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u118	The Presidency will undertake to examine your proposal and perhaps invite you to submit a written proposal to the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u121	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, not only is today the World Day of Autism Awareness, it is not only the anniversary of the death of Karol Wojtyla, but it is also the anniversary of a massacre of mafias, which was almost forgotten, although only last February the process called Pizzolungo-c. Thirty-five years later, in this country, a very unnormal country, we still need to know so much about what has been one of the blackest moments in our history as a mafia. We all remember the events of Judge Gian Giacomo Ciaccio Montalto, who is then replaced by Carlo Palermo in Trapani. Against Carlo Palermo it is decided to organize an explosive attack, which will then be used in other important black moments of our recent history. Then it happens that a mother and two six-year-olds, while doing something very normal - the mother accompanied their children to school - blow up, because those who hold the remote control still decide to try, no matter how much the judge's armored car had flanked in overtaking the Volkswagen Scirocco, in which there was this small family. They blew up in 1985. The older sister of the two children will say a posteriori that she saw a red spot on a wall two hundred meters away and that red spot was what one of the brothers, the twins Asta, remembered. After thirty-five years we still seek the truth. Riina, Virga, Di Maggio and Madonia were condemned as senders, but still nothing is known of the motive and we do not know who the material performers were: probably a certain Galatolo and he is accused in the Pizzolungo-c. trial. I would like the country to remember, in Trapani, in Erice, in Pizzolungo and a little everywhere, because where someone died for mafia, all Italian democracy was vile. We think too many times that it is only the men of the state, the magistrates, the public security workers, the people who, in any case, make themselves available to the community to represent the institutions. But when there are innocent victims, it is even more urgent that we should not stop, because we need to get to the truth. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and FI-BP groups and Senator Briziarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u122	Senator Morra, thank you for your speech in memory of the anniversary of the Pizzolungo massacre.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u125	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday afternoon, during the session of the city council, the mayor of Turin Chiara Appandino received an explosive envelope. On behalf of me and the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars I express support and closeness to Chiara who for about a month has lived under escort for the threats received from anarchist circles, following the eviction of the kindergarten of Via Alessandria, occupied since 1995. The investigators think that from these same environments come the authors of the cowardly and intimidating gesture that fortunately, thanks to the intervention of the Forces of the order, did not have consequences. We read in the newspapers that it was an explosive tear-off envelope, with a rudimentary triggering device, a battery and a small amount of pirica dust. An incendiary plico similar to other 21 sent to companies of Turin, Bologna, Milan, Rome, Bari, Ravenna through the ordinary postal service. Bomb packs that the Torino DIGOS, following the investigations attributed to the anarchist cell that had its headquarters right in the former occupied asylum. That eviction had to be done. An entire neighborhood was waiting for him. It had to be done to allow the citizens of the Aurora district to return to normal life and to recover a precious space in a difficult area. The premises will now be made available to the citizen and will be intended to host services and activities of associations and non-profit organisations. We are pleased that many political forces have consistently condemned this vile act across the board and we are all close to Chiara. Next to you are the institutions of the State, the Piedmont Region, the Presidency of the Council. We really hope that in Turin soon ends this climate of tension that in the past has dragged Italy into the darkness of terrorism and we hope that Chiara can soon return without escort to walk and to ride a bike freely in his city, in our Turin. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u128	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the World Day of Autism Awareness will be celebrated throughout the world, thousands of monuments will be painted blue as a sign of participation in the initiative. Autism is part of pervasive developmental disorders. The numbers, according to the latest epidemiological estimates, indicate that autism is an increasing condition also for the introduction of screening strategies and early detection that allow the diagnosis of even minor disorders that were not detected in the past. It is estimated that one child affected by 56 were born to a total of about 60 million people affected in the world. The educating community of the Istituto superiore di secondo grado (Higher Institute of Second Degree) (Ettore Carafa) of Andria, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, responding to the note of the Regione Puglia, thanks to the sensitivity of the school leader Amatulli, celebrated the UN World Day on the awareness of autism. For this purpose, the specialized teachers of support, educators and some students have set up parts of the school with balloons, bows, ribbons and distributed blue bracelets. In Corato, in my city of residence, the square was animated for about an hour by schools of various order and degree, as well as voluntary associations; a large blue cloth covered the audience, as well as the subsequent launch of blue balloons. These initiatives show solidarity to promote the knowledge of the disorder and to color blue the heart of each of us. We are all equal and all different in our specificity and uniqueness. Families cannot be left alone, and all together we must work for inclusion. As has also been said here, we must promote projects - also in collaboration with the Senate - that can enhance these subjects. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u131	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I asked you to speak to remind us here tonight, together with the whole House, Loredana Calì and Romina Meloni. Loredana Calì of Enna and Romina Meloni of Nuoro, the yet another two women killed at the hands of their former companions who did not accept the end of a relationship and who reacted with violence as cynical as brutal until they killed them. They are two women, after the other fifteen that we have recorded killed since the beginning of this year, and the numbers unfortunately continue to be dramatically pitiful. Numbers that question all of us and our consciences; they question politics, Parliament, the Government. They ask each of us whether we are really doing everything in our power to try to deal with this dramatic phenomenon in the best possible way. I say this in a day that has seen emphatic tones from some representatives of the Government regarding also measures that we have approved: here the abbreviated rite, to the House some norms contained in the code red. I do so by truly appealing to all of us. Meanwhile, the numbers tell us about a phenomenon not only dramatic, but that is the only one in Italy that, unfortunately, continues to grow dramatically: the number of murders of women grows as the numbers of the heinous and particularly aggressive violence against women grow. I say this because I believe that, compared to those triumphalist tones, we must leave room above all for seriousness and responsibility. I remember, for example, the rule on revenge porn that I do not find it difficult to write to the work of the whole Parliament; I do not say that we were forced to occupy the benches of the government, I do not care. I am interested in the fact that that rule was adopted unanimously by Parliament today, just as I am interested in reminding you that so many important rules, starting with the Istanbul Convention in the last parliamentary term, have been adopted unanimously. Violence against women, as it stands, needs everyone's contribution and contribution. On this ground no propaganda on the part of anyone; the will to work all together and to affirm a principle: that never and never can one think of attacking the phenomenon of violence only and exclusively with punitive and repressive choices. We have already done so much, we must, finally, in a more courageous, structural and system way, working, listening to many realities, associative and not, that work on this ground every day and that have gained an experience, developing structural interventions that look above all at the dynamics of the relationship of couple and therefore at a factor of character above all and mainly cultural. There's the real challenge. We play especially in schools, among our children, looking at them not only as those who will be the protagonists of tomorrow that will come, but above all as those in whom we can finally sow a radical change of mentality, that no longer sees the woman subjugating to the will and dominion, to the desire to possess a male, in a relationship definitely unbalanced and unequaled, but that finally sees a recognized role in an appropriate way, as it is right that it is. All of us must assume this awareness and work with absolute and sole priority. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u134	DE POLI (FI-BP). Mr President, on the World Day of Autism Awareness, as some of my fellow Members recalled, when people with disabilities are being paid attention to those who need them most, I am speaking to remind them of another subject that is equally important to all of us. I am talking about the issue of drought, global warming, our melting glaciers, therefore the problem of water and water collection even in territories where it is too important a good: without water there is no life, there would be none of us. A levy that is made without taking into account objective, structural and important criteria in order to ensure that in the territories where there is no such precious asset. I am talking about the wells and the water collection in the territories of Upper Padua, where there is one of the largest river basins in Europe, because it is a great asset that must be safeguarded, which gives to drink to hundreds of thousands of people, in the territory of Polesine, Rodigino, Bassa Padovana and many others. In the project that Veneto Acque SpA is planning, the withdrawal is a so-called hydropotable derivation of the slopes of the Middle Brenta. Wells in a layer take hundreds of cubic meters of water per minute without taking into account the charging criteria and are located in the locality of Camazzole, a hamlet of the Municipality of Carmignano di Brenta, in the territory of Cittadella. For this reason, the Brenta Basin Council has entrusted the CNR with an important project of monitoring and mapping the territory, in order to understand concretely what happens when this withdrawal is made without certain recharging works, to safeguard that territory of about 600,000 inhabitants and, even more, all those who go to give an important good like water to the citizens who make use of it. Convinced of the importance of the realization of such works of recharging of the aquifer, I believe it essential that the competent institution, in particular the Ministry, intervenes in the appropriate for the defense of the territory. We need clear national regulations, which define once and for all the criteria for the collection of water, which are not there, so that this common good can be enjoyed by all equally and so that, after human activities, they do not suffer from industrial, agricultural and animal husbandry. Water is a precious asset and must be safeguarded. I am convinced that this is one of the most important things, Mr President, that I should ask you to be able to do this speech, for which I thank you and the whole of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Modena.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-105.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.
