ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u3	The next item is: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of a bill for the conversion of decree-laws. On 2 July 2019, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 61 of 2 July 2019 on urgent measures to improve public finance balances" (1383).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u6	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and fellow Senators, yesterday we were appalled by the Fake ONLUS investigation carried out by the Lodi Finance Guard, which I applaud, under the mandate of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Milan, which ended with the arrest of 11 people. Pandora's box of the asylum-seekers' management business has been uncovered and details have emerged that we could never have imagined. Four ONLUS associations, which I would like to mention so that their names can be sculpted to future memory in the acts of this House: Volunteers without frontiers, Milan solidarity, Friends of Mother Teresa and Solidarity Area, two of which operating in my city, Lodi, would, in reality, be a single great criminal association aimed at the scam against the State and the self-laundering of money. False documents were produced in order to be able to access the notices of prefectures. They were declared false integration services, counseling of psychologists and lawyers, in reality never happened and - even more serious - would have emerged direct ties with the 'ndrangheta in order to provide cover and hospitality to affiliates and prejudiced. Of the approximately seven million euros received by the State between 2014 and 2018, about four and a half would be in this way distracted and used for other purposes. All this took place in the skin of migrants who pretended to help and defend, well backed by the left, perhaps drinking in the square in some anti-lighist manifestation. They defended them, therefore, not for the much praised humanitarian spirit, but only because they had found a real golden thread with those migrants. It is appropriate to say: wolves disguised as lambs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] And where was the policy you were supposed to control in those years? From the top of her filthy morality she was always ready to lower the accusation of racism on those who tried to ask questions. Instead, he closed his eyes to robberies, shady trade, devastation of the social fabric and increasing insecurity on the territory. Well therefore he has done and continues to do the Government, in particular Minister Salvini, in fighting with every means this real business of immigration, of which only today, linking all the dots, we can understand the vicious circle. Mafia organizations manage departures from Africa; Italian and foreign NGOs act as taxi drivers with the various Sea Watch ships and similar to cross the Mediterranean, and now we understand why the landings had to take place in Italy and not in other European ports. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, to close the circle, cooperatives, like these, lucrated on the contributions received for the reception so as to end the abundant profits in the pockets of criminal associations such as the 'ndrangheta. It is the confirmation that human meat trafficking now makes more than drug trafficking for the evil industry. In conclusion, the strengthening of the Forces of Order; the decisive contrast to the landings - also to save human lives, because less departures means even less tragic shipwrecks - and the drastic reduction of the contribution from 35 euros daily to 21 euros, like that of other European countries, are the instruments that allow us now to say, not to those who undertake the journey of hope, but to their exploiters: for you the parcel is over! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u9	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, last night's news is that the Latium TAR cancelled the written test of the school executive competition. The MIUR has made it known that it will intervene and in a sense wants to remedy it. We know, however, that the situation in September will be dramatic for schools, because we will have 3,600 job vacancies for school leaders, and that means regencies. Without that, Mr President, there is a real problem. We pointed out to Mr Bussetti, starting in April, with a series of questions, the problems of the competition for school leaders, because already in March, when the first rankings had been released, there had been more than 2,000 requests for access to documents. From there a number of issues arose and numerous irregularities were highlighted in the competition in some areas, while other committees had worked with different transparency. This has undoubtedly created chaos, but above all the Minister has not given us any answer. When a Member presents an act of inspection union, he does so in order to try to stimulate the Government to resolve certain issues, which he submits to the Government. The Minister was absolutely immobile. We did not ask anything special in that question: we asked how it intended to respond to the many requests for access to documents; how it intended to respond to the fact that the technical and scientific committee's transparency for all the evaluation actions had not been communicated; we highlighted the elements that yesterday the TAR of Lazio also judged irregular. If the Minister had thought about it before, if he had answered and listened to us, perhaps we could have found a solution, capable of protecting those who have passed this competition correctly and of curbing what has been an absolutely wrong procedure. I recall that the rule for the ban stipulated that the competition should take place on the same day and with the same criteria throughout the national territory. In October this was not the case because, due to a weather problem in the Region of Sardinia, the competition was moved to December. Well, dear President, do you think it is normal that the evaluation grid with its criteria for the candidates in October was given twenty-four hours earlier, but has it not been changed for those candidates who held the competition in December in Sardinia? It was normal that we would be facing a whole series of problems. I really ask you, Mr President, to urge the Minister to come (if not in this House, at least in the Commission) to explain why he did not answer our questions, which - I repeat - were not instrumental in nature, but were used to try to find a solution. I would ask you, Mr President, how we are going to deal with the beginning of the school year with 3,600 seats without a school manager: it means preventing schools from being able to function; it means that every school manager will have a regency of up to eight levels. Perhaps all this seems possible to you, but it seems to us to be a bad operation for which - honestly - for a sort of lack of courage in taking hold of the situation, nothing has been done at all. You preferred to keep your head under the sand and today the problem is as big as a house. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u12	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, yesterday, speeches were already made on the appalling story, which happened in the province of Reggio Emilia, of children torn from their families with diagnosis and false evidence, highly defamant and sometimes capable of destroying the lives of children and their parents for the purpose of creating profit for the so-called family homes and for the so-called professionals experienced in the management of problematic cases. Unfortunately, we cannot think that this is an isolated case and we cannot do so because, in the last parliamentary term, I have repeatedly denounced cases of this kind; I have tabled questions that have not been answered. On the other hand, there was another kind of response. In the last parliamentary term - few or almost no one knows - parental responsibility has been abolished and has been replaced by parental responsibility. No one voted on that measure, but it was a delegation, which said anything else, interpreted by the government at the time in this way, introducing the concept that children are the property of the state that does what it wants; they are temporarily entrusted to their parents - whether natural or adoptive - but they are always under the supervision of the state. We know very well that in some families there are situations where children have to be protected and there can be - indeed, there are - cases where they have to be taken away from the same families, but they have to be extremely controlled. There is no possibility that there will be no response in the case of complaints or reports. To kidnap children, the same tools are used - I have said it several times - used in the past in certain dictatorships of South America to take away opponents: the Carabinieri arrive in the middle of the morning at school, where the parents have accompanied their children confidently, and take the children away to locations unknown to the same parents. In some cases, in those realities, we take care of children; in other cases it happens - and unfortunately, I repeat, it is not an isolated case - what happened in the province of Reggio Emilia: children are subjected to brainwashing, even with technological systems - I would not have come to imagine such a thing - in order to tell falsehoods about their parents. I want to applaud, showing him admiration and solidarity, the magistrate who had the courage - for the first time - to discover this horrible practice. Among other things, I do not see among the accusations that report the most serious newspapers, namely slander and defamation against those parents and kidnapping. It is not a bureaucratic matter, it is not a question of falsifying a certificate: they were all serious crimes aimed at kidnapping people for profit. It is exactly like a kidnapper and then asks for ransom, even worse, because in that case parents are rightly victims; in this case they also pass through monsters or perverts. I have read that proposals have been made to set up a special Commission; I do not know whether it is more appropriate to talk about this in a special Commission or in the already existing Committee on Children and Adolescence. Surely we cannot wait for some other courageous magistrate to raise the case in other parts of the country, and we know that there are so many of them and that the media are reluctant to talk about them; and this happens first of all therefore the protagonists of these stories - the parents victims - tend not to do so because they are told that they talk about it with a journalist will never see their children again. Secondly, the media also tend not to talk about it, because they are facing charges of defamation. And when the defamation complaint comes from someone close by - or even a magistrate - guess what the magistrate called to judge the matter will say. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u15	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to inform the House of the situation in the Umbria region's exile service, in the light of last week's events. There was a serious paragliding accident in the area of Castelluccio di Norcia that required the intervention of a helicopter and the transfer of the subject involved to the hospital company Terni. Well, this highlights the criticalities of the system in Umbria. Umbria is, together with Molise, the only Region of Italy not to have its own Elisocrso service, relying on the Marche Region with a convention of 2014. It looked at efficiency and little to effectiveness, without achieving either of the two objectives. I'll give you an example. Only 41 times, in 2016, it was possible to use the helicopter (in the face of more than 1,000 interventions in the Marches), due to the morphology of the Apennines that, under certain environmental conditions, does not allow the operation of the aircraft - the Icarus 2 - and also because this is often engaged in interventions in the Marches. Well, despite this, Umbria has spent 1,200,000 euros fixed, plus 1,400 euros per hour for the flight, with an intervention cost that was almost six times higher than the national and European average. It will be said: why talk about it in Parliament? The issue of emergency-emergency is included within the so-called LEA and it is therefore useless to flag the need to defend essential levels of equal assistance for all at national level in front of the scare of autonomy and then not to go and see how the individual Regions defend this fundamental aspect. But there's more. In addition to the damage, in Umbria we also witnessed the mockery, because the helicopter was in the condition of having to make an emergency landing between the trees and the cars to earn a few minutes, because the area of competence of the hospital company Terni is 10 kilometers and fifteen minutes of ambulance from the hospital complex. Needless to count the seconds and minutes and request the intervention of a helicopter, when then fifteen minutes are lost in the city traffic. The request is therefore that of a attention of the national level to verify the effective functioning of the Elisocrso service, which in many Italian regions works very well, so that the constitutional right to health is guaranteed not only on paper, but actually for all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Marinello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u16	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-129.ana.u17	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 9 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 9:51 a.m.
