ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1249, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Vallardi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u5	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow Senators, what we are about to discuss today is an urgent measure concerning the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, which contains a number of interventions which certainly benefit the sector and which I shall be reading. Article 1 contains measures for the sheep milk sector: to this end, a Fund is established, with an initial allocation of EUR 10 million for 2019, intended to improve its quality through a plurality of interventions, which must comply with the conditions of the European Regulations on the limit of eligible contributions in the de minimis scheme and on the compatibility of aid with the rules of the internal market. Contributions shall be granted within the expenditure limit of EUR 10 million for the year 2019. Article 2 lays down rules to facilitate the restructuring of the goat dairy sector, allocates contributions, up to a maximum of EUR 5 million for the year 2019, for the total or partial coverage of the costs incurred for interest on bank loans contracted by companies operating in the sector by 31 December 2018. The contribution shall be granted to each individual producer in proportion to the number of livestock held on the date of conclusion of the loan agreement. Article 3 lays down provisions for monitoring the production of cow's milk, sheep's milk and goat's milk and milk products imported from countries of the European Union or third parties, requiring buyers and producers to record each month the quantities of milk exchanged in the national agricultural information system (SIAN) database. It is without prejudice to the provisions already laid down for the monitoring of cow's milk and the prohibition on the reconstitution of milk powder for human consumption. Article 4 deals with how the co-active collection of amounts due on the additional levy of milk is carried out, starting from 1 April 2019, by means of a role and then transferred from the AGEA and the Regions to the Revenue Agency (which is transmitted roles and residues and which takes over guarantees). Article 4-a, inserted during the discussion of the provision in the Chamber at first reading, affects the movement in the national territory of animals of species susceptible to the virus of the blue language (the so-called blue tongue). To this end, the whole national territory is considered as a homogeneous area and not subject to restrictions as regards the movement of bovine animals. Article 5 increases the allocation of the Fund for the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived persons by EUR 14 million for 2019, in order to facilitate the free distribution of foods with high nutritional value (specifically, PDO sheep's milk cheeses, thus pecorino cheese, with particular ripening and nutritional characteristics). This measure is subject to the authorisation of the European Commission, after notification of the measure by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policies. Article 6 contains support measures for farms located in the territories of the Puglia Region that have suffered damage from exceptional frosts from 26 February to 1 March 2018. To this end, it extends to these companies - provided that they have not signed insurance policies facilitated to cover the risks - access to interventions to facilitate the resumption of the productive activity referred to in the National Solidarity Fund. Article 6-a instead recognizes for 2019 a capital contribution, in order to favor the productive resumption, to the oil mills, including the transformation cooperatives, located in the territories of the Region Puglia that, because of the exceptional frosts happened from 26 February to 1 March 2018, have stopped the activity and have suffered a decrease of the turnover regarding the median value of the corresponding period of the three years 2016-2018, as result of the data relating to the movements of olives recorded in the SIAN. Article 7 provides for a contribution to cover the costs incurred for interest due for 2019 on bank loans contracted by olive-oil companies by 31 December 2018. The contribution shall be recognised to the total expenditure limit of EUR 5 million for 2019 and shall be granted to each individual producer in proportion to the adequately documented production average for the last three years in accordance with the de minimis aid scheme. The discipline of the contributions is entrusted to a decree of the Minister of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, adopted in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, in agreement with the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The article also allows companies in the olive-oil sector located in the municipalities of Calci, Vicopisano and Buti, in the province of Pisa, who have suffered damage from the fires in September 2018 and who have not signed insurance policies facilitated to cover the risks, to access compensatory interventions to refresh the lost production for 2019. Article 8 contains measures to combat quarantine pests in the application of plant health emergency measures (we are therefore talking about xylella). First of all, official plant health measures and any related activities, including the destruction of contaminated plants, including those of monumental nature, are to be implemented by way of derogation from any existing provisions, including those of a restrictive nature, within the limits and in accordance with the criteria set out in the plant health emergency measures. However, the rule specifies that it may be permitted not to remove monumental plants or plants of historical interest, if the presence of the infection is not established. Administrative financial penalties shall also be imposed on the owner, holder or holder, in any way, of land on which plants infected with quarantine pests are found in the event of failure to comply with the requirements for the grubbing-up of plants infected with pests. Plant health inspectors or support staff shall carry out plant grubbing-up. Anyone who prevents co-active grubbing-up shall be subject to the above-mentioned penalty, which shall be increased by double. It is also stipulated that once plant health emergency measures have been communicated with the appropriate forms of publicity, in order to implement the measures concerned, inspectors, plant protection agents and authorised support staff shall access the funds in which infected plants are present. Article 8-a then introduces a special pecuniary penalty, from 516 euros to 30,000 euros, in case of violation of the reporting obligations by anyone who becomes aware of the presence of harmful organisms on olive trees. Article 8-b contains measures for the containment of the spread of the bacterium of the annoying xylella. It is expected that, for a period of seven years, the owner, the holder or the holder of land may eradicate, after notification to the Region, the olive trees located in the infected area, with the exception of those located in the containment area, by way of derogation from any existing provision, also in relation to environmental constraints, and without experimenting with environmental impact, strategic and environmental impact assessment procedures. Undertakings registered in the Official Register of plant producers not authorised to issue their passport, as they are located in areas bounded by the xylella bacteria, may be authorised to produce and market within the infected area the plants referred to in Article 1 of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789. The authorised holdings must clearly ensure the traceability of the plants produced and marketed and their health. Article 8-c provides for the adoption of an extraordinary Plan for the regeneration of the olive sector of Puglia in areas infected with the bacterium of the annoying xylella. Article 9 provides for measures to support undertakings in the citrus sector, recognising a contribution to cover, in whole or in part, the costs incurred for interest due for 2019 on bank loans contracted by undertakings in the sector. Article 10 increases the budget of the National Solidarity Fund by EUR 20 million for 2019, from the Fund for the implementation of the Government Programme. Article l0-bis deals with the rules on provisions for agricultural workers in the event of natural disasters, with a view to broadening the subjective scope of application. Article 10b allows 50% of the amount of contributions due to agricultural undertakings for direct payments under the support scheme set up in the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Article 10-c regulates trade relations within the agri-food supply chains (this is very important): it is necessary that, in accordance with procedures established by the Ministry of Agriculture's decree, contracts for the supply of certain agricultural products which must be entered into in writing - with the exception of those of a seasonal nature - have a duration of not less than twelve months. Article 10 -quinquies concerns undertakings in the sugar sector in crisis, which are subject to recovery procedures under Community regulations, and suspends recovery proceedings until the final determination of the obligation on the beneficiaries. Article 11 allocates €2 million for 2019 for the implementation of promotional and communication campaigns to encourage the consumption of extra virgin olive oil. Article 11-a establishes a national pig-growing fund of EUR 1 million for 2019 and EUR 4 million for 2020. Article 11b deals with the fight against illegal fishing and reorders the sanctioning system. Article 12 regulates a series of measures for the completion of emergency cleaning operations at the former Stoppani chemical plant. Finally, Articles 13 and 14 respectively contain financial provisions and govern the entry into force of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u6	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the representatives of the Municipal Council of the boys and girls of the middle schools of Martellago, in the province of Venice, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u7	The minority rapporteur, Senator De Bonis, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. By not making any comments, the request is deemed to have been accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator De Bonis.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u8	Mr President, the measure under consideration, also following the addition to the text of the decree-law, approved by the other Parliament, undoubtedly addresses many issues relating to emergencies in the agricultural sector. However, it points out that, beyond the evaluation of individual interventions, the decree-law, although full-bodied, does not take the opportunity to initiate structural solutions the criticalities that afflict the Italian agricultural sector. The measure in question was originally concentrated on two regions, Puglia and Sardinia, where respectively the damage from frost and xylella and the crisis in the sheep and goat sector were of such magnitude that they had put both regional economies in crisis in their entirety. I regret the fact that it was not possible for the Senate to further improve the measure in its essential points, because all the amendments tabled unfortunately received an opinion against it from the Government. Otherwise, in the other branch of Parliament it was possible to introduce so many new provisions to give the measure itself an aspect of omnibus decree-law. I cannot therefore hide the fact that limits and gaps remain with regard to a strategic sector which would have deserved more attention on all open fronts. Despite the changes made to the House, unfortunately we do not find adequate answers to the emergencies confirmed and confirmed, some of which are completely ignored in the provision. I say this because, without prejudice to those who have the responsibility of government in this matter, I would have hoped that the measure under consideration would respond to the many media promises made and to the many commitments made by the representatives of the Government. As a Southern Senator, I have to say with great regret that this was misleading propaganda and that a strategic sector such as agriculture is relegated to the margins of the government's important activities and choices. I recall that this should have been the Government of Change, yet, after a year, I do not see any viable measures for agriculture and changes necessary for its evolution. On frosts and damages to companies we record the exclusion of several emergencies but, if a decree-law has been issued which bears in the title that word, there is no doubt that it should contain measures for all existing ones. I have to say that there are no resources available in the sectors of agriculture which are also relevant to our economy: I am referring to sectors such as cereals, tomatoes, tunnel farming and many others. There is no focus on these areas. I am opening an important parenthesis on the durum wheat imported from the United States, as it is now the news of Bayer's conviction in the United States. Since it is a potentially carcinogenic substance that does not yet see measures of contrast from the Government, it is urgent to arrange the intensification of the activities of control and monitoring, with specific reference to the commercial traffic and the connected operations in all the Italian harbour infrastructures, in particular in the ports of Puglia and Sicily, where they land ships containing durum wheat coming from abroad with residues of haddock (which we find in the pasta, the bread, the biscuits and the other derivatives), due to the use in pre-harvest to favor the artificial maturation, practice prohibited in Europe and Italy as a result of specific measures that transpose the principle of precaution. In this respect, I have tabled an amendment on transparency in contractual relations in agricultural chains to ensure the establishment and proper functioning of the national single committees (CUNs), as well as a draft law on this matter (Act No. 1147). The CUN is a valuable tool for transparency in the free market because it fairly determines the price of national raw materials and Foggia has been expected for years for durum wheat producers. We are talking in these days about CUN trials, but perhaps they are good for the supply chains that do not work, because the industrialists often find quirks and do not respect the agreements, penalising the agricultural world. Yet the majority, who boasted of having brought to light the founding law of the CUN, continue to talk about it in future terms, despite the past and present crisis. For the other sectors of agriculture to which no attention has been paid, there are territorial areas starting from Basilicata, Calabria, Sicily, Emilia-Romagna that are not included in the due recognition of the damages that calamitous events have caused for the citrus sector or olive grove (among these, the Basilicata Region had applied in the terms laid down by law). Chapter III in the decree, although dedicated to this subject, is objectively insufficient. In fact, structural measures would be needed to ensure that producers have a price of the product for processing that is profitable and above all enhances the high quality of consumer health protection. It must also be a priority, as we have said, to strengthen controls on the quality of products and products from abroad. The decree-law does not address the serious asymmetry on environmentally sustainable crops: only 2.9 percent of CAP funding today rewards the agricultural model that reduces the impact of pesticides, defends soil fertility, protects climate and biodiversity and is used in 15% of the fields. The fact that integrated and conservative agriculture have a higher proportion of funding than organic farming is a clear paradox. Although I am aware that the measures approved for the olive sector are an important first step in supporting agricultural enterprises, I believe that the financial resources should have been implemented in the past. Another issue that I care about is the measures you want to take to counter the annoying xylella. In essence, the destruction of contaminated plants and any other material can be a vehicle for spreading harmful organisms, introducing heavy penalties for those who do not comply with the provisions. We cannot punish farmers who are already largely vexed and we cannot cut down the monumental Apulian olive trees: the lack of evidence is not evidence of a lack of evidence. Article 8 of the Emergency Decree will trigger a dangerous environmental, health and democratic drift. Allowing official phytosanitary measures to be implemented by way of derogation from any existing provision means bypassing the Constitution, national, regional laws and, finally, European standards, as in the case of Strategic Environmental Assessment (VAS). It is also very serious to include emergency phytosanitary measures among the projects that can circumvent the strategic environmental assessment. We are talking about derogating from an important European standard issued in order to consider the effects of certain plans and programmes on the natural environment and in order to contribute to the sustainable development of our country and the European Union as a whole. Do we realize how we're legalizing? The protection of the health of people, the environment, the landscape, private property and personal freedoms will be undermined by mere economic interests, as shown by the disconcerting management of the story xylella with the acts of the gip Alcide Maritati and the attorney of Lecce, which, as you have certainly read, is now manifested in all its real intentions. Article 8 will raise the xylella case to a criminal model, as Prosecutor Caselli also announced in two reports on the agromafia. With this measure you can use any plant protection emergency (or supposedly such) as a pretext for doing anything, without considering the environmental impact of the measures imposed; but even worse, it is that you can impose invasive and dangerous measures without there being a serious and open scientific comparison, a real participation of citizenship in decisions concerning the territory or an evaluation of alternatives and developments. The case of xylella in Puglia shows how the imposition of uprooting on most of the territory the centuries-old and monumental olive trees and a wide use of plant protection drugs have proved ineffective and scientifically unfounded, all without taking into account the effects of these measures on public health and the safety of the territories. We are talking about the devastation of a landscape heritage that is the main attraction for millions of tourists and travellers, the end of organic farming in Apulia, one of the few sectors in constant and consistent growth, and the bee sector, the ruin of biodiversity and especially the destruction of one of the flagship products of Made in Italy, that is the Apulian oil. This is demonstrated by the fact that the request to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry, supported by the signatures of 50 senators, has still been in the Commission since 28 June, despite the call of thousands of citizens, including many researchers. With regard to the case xylella the Lecce gip said that the interventions made so far by institutions, politics and research have proved to be disarticulated, late, characterized by lack of transparency and professionalism and not suited to proper emergency management. The measures taken over time to tackle the xylella problem are also inadequate, but it has already been known from the outset and this inadequacy has been underlined by a large part of the national and international scientific community. In this regard, I would like to remind all my colleagues of the views of many scientists, who have also been audited in the 9th Commission, who have already warned us of these practices, and of the call made by over 2,000 experts, doctors, scientists, professors and academics who are calling for Article 8 of this Decree-Law to be withdrawn. Today instead we are giving the future of our territory in the hands of some scientist who, without authority, will do what he thinks of our food, gastronomic, economic and tourist heritage. Do we want this kind of people to hold the fate of our country? When their guidelines turn out to be useless, their incorrect data, their monitorings do so (as has already happened with the Monopoly olive tree), who will pay for the damage? Who will restore health to all those people and children who today are forced to breathe pyrethroids and neonicotinoids do not know why? Who can ever return to that land and our country the priceless heritage that this Government is destroying? On the bacterium, I have tabled amendments aimed primarily at the search for sustainable treatment, rather than the eradication of plants. For this reason, in the fight against the bacterium it is necessary to adopt sustainable measures that increase the natural defenses of plants, as other colleagues in the House have also argued. I have also proposed the deletion of Article 41 of the Decree-Law Genoa on sewage sludge in agriculture, a moratorium for support for the resumption of agricultural enterprises; I have presented an agenda on the agricultural IMU that would commit the Government to provide a provision of favor for businesses and help the municipalities in difficulty (but today it continues to apply for the same municipalities and nothing has changed). The government seems to be only concerned about the sugar sector, to which it has granted a moratorium. We believe that a new agricultural reform is essential to tackle the new market bottlenecks: the loss of self-sufficiency in supplies of national raw materials; a strong concentration in the livestock supply chains; a strong concentration in the agro-industrial supply chains, with dominant powers on the purchasing demand side; a strong concentration of distribution and the loss of the function of trade union representation. We believe that the important and complex challenges must be addressed with a careful evaluation of the toxicological quality of what comes to our tables. Globalization without rights produces a slavery and authoritarianism that we must oppose in Italy. The agricultural sector can no longer be used to enrich the other downstream segments of the supply chain and impoverish itself. I therefore believe that the government should think carefully and decide to take measures that include not only additional resources, but also the introduction of long-term programming, which can finally resolve the many problems of the entire agricultural sector. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Lonardo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to data published by Eurostat last year, Italy, with its 52.9 billion turnover, is the second European agricultural power behind France and Germany. On the other hand, if we look at added value, we see that Italy, in agriculture, with its 30 billion euros, is the first country in the European Union. We are the country of agri-food excellence and this is demonstrated by our absolute primacy in the Community by the number of products with a designation of origin (almost three hundred). On the table we can also put our sixty thousand organic companies and our 4.965 food products recorded. We must bear these figures in mind in order to be aware of the importance of the agro-food sector for our economy; a sector that does not make geographical differences but that, indeed, especially in the less developed areas of our country, gives work, hope and future. In this document we are dealing with a whole series of emergencies that are affecting our agriculture, in particular the olive-olear sector of the Apulia region, bent both by the exceptional frosts of 2018 and by the spread of the bacterium xylella annoying, which is becoming a real national emergency. There are also, quite rightly, questions relating to the emergencies of sheep and goat and citrus fruit, as well as support measures for other sectors. We have been a little misled by the title of this decree-law that speaks, precisely, of emergencies in agriculture, and that then intervenes only on some of them, which are very important emergencies, but all this is not enough, because our agriculture, which also came out better than other sectors from the terrible economic crisis, is experiencing a moment of great difficulty. I am referring not only to harmful weather events, which are becoming increasingly frequent, but also to the inability of our agricultural companies to cope with the challenges of the market, so heavily unbalanced by unfair competition on prices, by counterfeiting of food products made abroad but sold for Italians and by the scarcity of infrastructures of our country system. The resources put in place in this text, therefore, are few and misdistributed, being focused only on some priorities. So, we ask ourselves: what is the unitary plan that this Government wants to implement? Is there a medium- and long-term strategy that seriously addresses the structural problems of the agricultural sector? Dealing with emergencies, yes, but not only. Climate change now requires us to have a long-term vision. Many regions have been affected by adverse weather events, such as Lazio and Veneto, and, in the last few hours, still Emilia-Romagna, to which I want to address a thought, invested by an exceptional event of bad weather that has severely damaged agriculture. I know, unfortunately, how bad an exceptional atmospheric event can be. I still have in my eyes the woods of my mountains, which in a few minutes have been cut down by an exceptional wind, which has bent trees of hundreds of years, turning one of Europe's green lungs into a desert. On the other hand, Coldiretti reminds us constantly: the Italian countryside is now under hail, rain and strong wind, flooding or, at the opposite extreme, drought. And this inhibits our farmers, because it does not allow them to plan investments aimed at growth. Over the last decade these disasters have influenced the profitability of the agricultural sector and the collection losses due to natural disasters are now recurrent and very serious. The centrality of the issue of climate change is also recognised at EU level in the definition of the new lines of the common agricultural policy (the CAP) after 2020. For the years 2021-2027, the European Commission has proposed to include further sustainable development objectives and adaptation to climate change in cohesion policy. The new CAP for the years 2021-2027 should be more courageous and push farmers towards more ambitious environmental objectives. 30% - for example - of the Member States' rural development budget should be devoted to environmental measures and 40% of the overall CAP budget should contribute to climate action. That is why we call on the Government to have a policy that acts in a systemic and overall manner on a sector of extreme importance such as agriculture, which can and must become an extraordinary opportunity to increase youth employment. We must and we can play a leading role in Europe, and we must have a greater impact on the common agricultural policy. We must put ourselves at the side of our farmers, especially those who rely on quality products. We are the second agricultural power in Europe, and so Italy, in order to maintain this position, must emerge from the mere management of the emerging phase and build a long-term project that provides incentives for innovation and competitiveness growth, within the framework of decisive environmental sustainability. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u10	Senator Pietro Pisani is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, with the approval of the speeches contained in this measure, we are giving important and concrete answers to our shepherds and farmers. Those that we are about to discuss are undoubtedly interventions expected by many workers in the agricultural and fish sector who, in recent years, have felt forgotten by politics. In this measure, in addition to the dairy instruments in the sheep and goat sector, there are real solutions and concrete contents aimed at affecting the olive-oil and citrus sectors, due to the state of crisis they are in. In addition, support for agri-food companies affected by exceptional adverse weather events and a framework for the Stoppani plant, located in the municipality of Cogoleto. With respect to the initial approach of the decree-law, after the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, the provision is enriched with further important interventions. The aim of the measure is dictated by the need and urgency to develop, for the sectors affected by the crisis, a plan of interventions for the recovery of production capacity and to support agricultural enterprises in crisis concretely, also for the continuation of the effects of the damage caused by adverse weather events of an exceptional nature last year and by infections of organisms harmful to plants. Agriculture needs as much attention as possible, and Minister Centinario is showing, by concrete acts, that he has the right attention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Agriculture also needs restructuring, otherwise we will always be in a position to face continuous emergencies that, in some sectors, put at risk not only employment, but also the holding of those territories with an agricultural vocation that distinguish our country in the world and produce products of extraordinary excellence. That is why, rightly, action must be taken. With this measure there are all the instruments to relaunch certain sectors in crisis. I am thinking, in particular, of the citrus sector, which over the years has been hit back and a succession of atmospheric events, such as floods and frosts, which have brought the entire production to its knees, in some cases delaying the ripening of the products and causing the ruin of the harvest. To these delays has also been added the excessive supply of products from Spain and Morocco at extremely competitive prices, which has made it impossible for our producers to recover the losses incurred due to the damage caused by atmospheric events. Here too, with this decree-law important resources have been invested in order to be able to restructure the sector, such as support to companies that have contracted loans in proportion to the production they have made, so as to relaunch a sector definitely important for Italy and, in particular, for the South. I would like to mention other provisions that I consider important, such as those relating to the pig sector, with which a national pig farming fund is established, with a budget of EUR 1 million for 2019 and EUR 4 million for 2020, designed to strengthen supply chain relations; to increase the information and promotion of pig products towards the consumer; to improve quality and animal welfare by promoting innovation, supply chain contracts and business organisations. The Italian pig sector has seen a fall in prices over the last six months. Imports from abroad obviously have a negative effect on prices. An increase in imports of both live pigs and fresh pig meat, together with the less sustained increase in exports, contributes to the worsening of the trade balance. In addition, the pig sector also faces one of the greatest health risks caused by African swine fever, with devastating consequences as regards mortality and the number of cases of disease recorded. African swine fever is not an infectious disease for humans, but it is one of the biggest problems that the world's animal husbandry is witnessing. The virus responsible for the disease in wild animal populations moves oily, progressively hitting adjacent populations. The spread of the disease is facilitated by contact between domestic and wild populations or by indirect transmissions, due to the so-called human factor, which are carried out through movements of infected material by means of transport, animals, contaminated goods and persons from the areas concerned to the free zones. In Europe it is present in more than ten countries and finally arrived in Belgium, where it caused a price collapse and the blocking of exports in thirteen countries around the world. I also draw attention to the long-standing issue of annoying xylella. In this case, too, concrete measures have been put in place in the decree-law which should have been taken for a long time to prevent the disaster that we are facing today, since the desiccation of the Apulian olive trees is a tragic reality that has been dragging on for many years now. Unfortunately, in the state, science has not yet identified safe remedies to stop xylella, except those of containment and, in the most serious cases, eradication of sick trees. There are therefore no definitive solutions at present, but we still needed to act quickly. The Ministry of Agricultural Policy, as communicated by the Secretary of State for Agriculture during the examination in the Agriculture Commission, has long established a table on the problem with all the parties involved, drawing up a package of measures of plant protection action, which was agreed in the State-Regions Conference, leading finally to the norms contained, first, in a special ministerial decree and then in the measure we are examining today, to facilitate the containment of phytopathology and the regeneration of the Apulian olive heritage. We have also spoken on another important issue affecting farms. I'm talking about the blue tongue case or the blue tongue. The blue tongue is a fatal disease affecting sheep, but it also makes cattle healthy and, if the movement of bovine animals is not properly managed, there is a risk that for a few sick sheep the movement of bovine animals will be totally blocked. This certainly, for companies that live in part or only with this type of breeding, in particularly difficult areas, can be reason for a further impoverishment of the sector. Dear colleagues, I conclude by saying that our country is made up of many realities that represent, even if dimensionally small, grandiose excellences, with an inestimable value of stories, cultures and traditions. Companies that work and produce must be able to look to the future of their children with hope, but above all with the awareness that this Government is on their side. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Perosino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u12	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, anyone who knows the fundamental contribution that the agricultural sector makes to the country in a cross-cutting way can only welcome any measures that remedy the problems affecting it. Since the beginning of this legislature Forza Italia has never failed to make its contribution in this sense on all occasions, unfortunately always too many, in which the world of agriculture has encountered difficulties of various nature, connected both to the weather and climatic conditions, and - for example - to "market" issues with complex contours. I am thinking of the December recommendation of last year, called for by Forza Italia, on the establishment of funds aimed at combating the damage to agriculture caused by bad weather and wild animals, as well as our commitment to the Sardinian shepherds and in general the world of milk, its supply chain and the transformation as a whole, the gearing system that can offer the agricultural world an additional opportunity of strength to the benefit of those who invest creating work. The measure that we are about to convert, in its general aims, can therefore only be welcomed. In fact, we are talking about a measure by means of which several million euros are put for the next three years, as is necessary, in order to deal at least with some - indeed, unfortunately, only some - of the emergencies in agriculture. The favour of the measure, however, can only be limited to the general aims of the text, which - as is often the case with this Government - is also shown to be a missed opportunity and at the same time a tool for easy speculation that does not offer the structural solutions that the agricultural world certainly deserves. I am thinking of the need to reform the agricultural insurance sector in an appropriate way, in order to enable companies to protect themselves against the increasingly frequent damage caused by adverse weather events; events that, as shown by recent - recent, in May - snowfalls at low altitude or hailstorms that from the end of April and until the last weekend have hit Astigiano, Casalese and Alexandrino, are now a constant compared to which the conditions must be set to intervene in a structural way. Similarly, we must intervene structurally on the phenomenon of the annoying xylella, compared to which we need to invest more in a research perspective oriented also to prevention, in order to avoid a spread of the bacteria; a threat not only for Puglia, but also for all the Italian regions in which oil is produced, which we must foil considering also the significant reduction of production occurred in the last decade. We must not forget even the golden flavescence. I think - to give a last example - of the sugar sector, where a structural intervention plan would have to be launched, given that the crisis in the sector has been going on for many years, to the point that many companies have had to abandon the cultivation of beet. The text we are debating is therefore, unfortunately, full of missed opportunities, not least that of method, for which the Government and the majority have not allowed any changes, which would have been necessary. This is the case with the damage caused to agriculture by wildlife, which it has confirmed that it does not want to mention, and this, in the perspective of this Government, may, perhaps, be legitimate. Let us say, however, that it will also be legitimate for this part of the House to take responsibility for making an ad hoc proposal for intervention, which only a deaf government group in the country may not share. What we are sure of, so far, is that with the provision that we are going to convert, it has been too widely decided not to act, or to act little, to show that, deaf or not to the demands of the country, for a large part of the majority it is however easier to oppose and say no, rather than act and govern with courage. We note this with regret. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u14	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italian agriculture and its products are urgently needed in the national and international spheres. The primacy granted to Italy of protected products needs further efforts in favour of greater appreciation; greater profitability for farmers; a promotion that aims to enhance the quality of the whole agro-food sector, in order to maintain and increase our supremacy in Europe, in search of new directions beyond our continent, to establish and strengthen the trade routes, as is happening effectively with this Government. And it is precisely in order to follow up the above good intentions that attention must be paid to the crises that go through the various sectors of agriculture, aggravated by the increasingly frequent harmful atmospheric phenomena. This was done with the decree-law in question that we are going to convert into law. Attention was immediately paid to the unsustainable fall in the prices of goat's milk and milk production, an obvious problem in Sardinia that motivated the resounding protests of last February. To overcome this dramatic condition the commitment has been maximum in order to ensure greater transparency in contractual relations, finding an agreement with the representatives of category in order also to identify the support measures to the sector and an acceptable price of the milk, seen the drastic decrease well below the costs of production. We have set up a fund with an initial budget of EUR 10 million for this year, aimed at promoting the quality and competitiveness of sheep's milk through support for supply chain and district contracts; the promotion of measures to regulate the supply of sheep's cheeses with a protected designation of origin (PDO), in compliance with current European legislation, as well as through research, technology transfer and infrastructure interventions in the reference sector. The hope now is that the measures envisaged will be implemented swiftly, given the heavy deadlock in which companies have been forced for too long. In the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis and in support of agricultural enterprises affected by exceptional adverse weather events, specific measures have been envisaged to the benefit of the citrus sector. In this respect, a fund with a budget of EUR 5 million for 2019 has been set up to cover interest on bank loans. Special attention, then, was dedicated to the Apulian olive farms. The olive-oil sector, which is the heart of the Apulian territorial economy, has suffered considerable damage with the late frosts of late February and early March 2018. It was therefore necessary to raise the fate of so many farmers in difficulty who, caught off guard, did not sign their insurance policies. Through the provision of article 6 of the decree-law today under consideration, therefore, the access to the interventions previewed in order to favor the resumption of the productive activities own to the agricultural enterprises located in the Puglia Region, harshly hit by the bad weather. To these available resources is added the possibility of activation of additional aid measures for European funds destined for the restoration of productive potential, present in the Rural Development Programme (RDP) 2014-2020 of the Puglia Region. Olive growing in Puglia is also on its knees because of the xylella bacterium in the Salento peninsula, which, who knows where it might go. Past policy has never been able to tackle the problem seriously and to arrive at a concrete solution. On the contrary, this government has committed itself seriously to the search for the best possible solution, being aware of the damage that the bacterium has caused and continues to cause to olive growers, now exhausted by years of unsolved criticality. It is time to act and, precisely in order to defend the landscape and the environment, it is necessary to be incisive in order to contain this diseased phenomenon, without losing sight of the preservation of monumental olive trees. For this reason, after having studied the issue thoroughly and heard the opinion of experts, it has been emphasized that it is possible to eradicate even the infected olive trees, thus avoiding to destroy the invaluable landscape, economic and social wealth constituted by the Apulian olive groves. To this end, special attention is needed in implementing targeted actions. It is, in fact, essential to monitor the presence of the infection constantly and at the same time to implement regular good agricultural practices. Widely supported, scientific research will continue its incessant work on cultivars resistant to autochthonous bacteria and respectful of biodiversity to understand with ever greater scientific objectivity the concauses and modalities of propagation of the infection from xylella. Taking appropriate measures to curb and contain the harmful phenomenon is necessary and urgent. At the same time, it is essential to study every solution that can prevent a possible recurrence of bacteriumosis. In addition, the Commission must undertake to assess, whenever plants are to be removed, the possibility of assigning an historical interest to the entire olive grove and not only to individual plants and, therefore, to assess whether the olive grove in question has valuable and functional characteristics to the hydrogeological structure such as areas on slopes. Finally, it is essential to engage in an urgent dialogue with the European Commission, in agreement with the Puglia Region, after hearing the local authorities, research bodies and the scientific community, trade associations and environmental associations, with the aim of remodelling and re-discussing the decisions taken at European level on the xylella emergency. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the promotion and search for new international markets, together with the internal stimulus to consumption of local quality products, must be a priority for the Government and for us legislators. We have the obligation to enhance the Italian agri-food industry, supported by ISMEA data that see export increasing and import falling, even if the growth of the sector has a moment of uncertainty. The economic, social and environmental function of our agriculture must be consolidated, strong of the international recognition of our food and wine culture and of the many quality products. Keeping the industry advantage that we have vis-à-vis the countries of the rest of the world with our made in Italy is an indispensable duty. It is to be appreciated an intervention carried out yesterday in the Province of Foggia by the NAS that, coordinated by the Attorney Ludovico Vaccaro, have discovered and then stopped a traffic of counterfeit oil. Twenty-four precautionary measures and other measures were issued to stop the illicit trafficking of sunflower oil which was treated with chlorophyll and betacarotene. This is an attack on the heart of olive growing. The government with the promotion of our Made in Italy is doing so much in this field. Therefore, I also applaud the Forces of order of my territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ripamonti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u16	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to finally examine in this House a measure which brings to the centre of our debate such an important sector for our country, agriculture, agri-food, livestock and everything around it. I would say that this is the first time that this House has dealt specifically with an issue which concerns an important sector both economically and culturally for our country - as my colleague from Forza Italia mentioned before - which is worth more than 59 billion and which places us at the top of Europe, and probably not only. We are finally examining such an important issue for Italy, but we are doing so with a decree-law that is being transformed and it is not yet possible for this House, Parliament and the Commission - and I would like to thank the President and all the Members of the Commission - to build a serious vision for such an important sector. In fact, in general the decree-law, and the one under consideration in particular, already prepacked us a whole series of actions to protect the agro-food, livestock and agricultural sector. Before me, everything that the decree-law has in itself has been listed: it has practically everything, in the sense that we can say that it is yet another omnibus that we are looking at in this House. We are talking about the sheep and goat sector, both for milk and meat; the whole livestock sector; support for pig farming; the sugar sector; the fight against illegal fishing; the provision and assistance of agricultural workers; the refinancing of the National Solidarity Fund. In addition, the measure concerns the citrus sector, the plant health emergency and the frosts. I repeat that there is really everything. We, of course, cannot be against the conversion of this decree-law, because it still contains important actions, but there is one, Mr President, which I shall put to your attention and, through you, to the Undersecretary. It is regrettable that the Minister is not present - I sincerely say this - because he is absent the first time we dedicate a day in the Chamber to matters related to his ministry. I would like to thank the Undersecretary once again for his presence. Mr President, I say to you, however, that we have issues to raise, that is, where is politics in this area, where is the vision? Some have said that politics is made up of passion, a sense of responsibility and above all of foresight. Here, once again, in examining - I repeat - such important issues and with which we are so filled in the political debate on social media, newspapers and television programmes, there is completely no politics, there is no vision. It is right to talk about climate change and to put in emergency solutions to these situations. It is right to put solutions to the spring frosts - and we do so today with this measure - to the xylella mentioned by her colleague before me, to the drought and to many other issues listed above. It is right that immediate and emerging solutions should be put in place, but politics - ladies and gentlemen - must do something else. It is our responsibility to look a little further, to do nothing but vote on emerging solutions. I wonder and ask you, therefore, what we want to do for the agricultural and livestock sector in this country. What's the vision? Undersecretary, President, there is no vision. Looking back at the various acts that have passed in the Commission, the only vision for the future ahead is to give agricultural land to be cultivated, with an economic incentive to buy a house, to those who have more than three children, from the third child onwards. The only forward-looking action is this. For the rest, we act only in an emergency. This we must tell ourselves and I do so without fear of being denied. I would like to know what we intend to do about exports and to guarantee our products abroad. What are we gonna do? I am still waiting for the Minister to answer the question of CETA: do you agree or not? Part of this government seems to be, and part of it doesn't seem to be. Do we do one thing with China and other countries like Canada? I would like to know what the export vision is, for example. How do you intend to respond to the challenges of plant diseases? On the xylella issue, we rightly intervene in an emergency, but what are we going to do to ensure that the problem is as contained as possible, so as not to dare say defeated? When will you bring your vision to the attention of Parliament? We will be there because we are interested in that. We are interested in giving the industry the long-awaited answers that cannot and must not be based solely on the emergency, because politics does nothing else. Otherwise, we could simply work with the competent technicians who decide that some resources should go one way and others in another; that we should rightly fight xylella; that we must support the olive sector and support the fisheries sector and the whole zootechnics. I can list them all. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat once again, at the cost of being boring, that we are called to do something else. I would like to say this to the Minister, but he is not present today, and then I say it to the Undersecretary and President Calderoli, asking them to act as intermediary with the Government. I say this to the President of my Commission and to all my colleagues. This is an issue on which there would be a great deal to do, and together we could build a really important future by working seriously and giving answers that can make those who work in the sector really safe for the future. The challenge is this: go beyond the decree-law that is converted today and have a vision for the whole agro-food, agricultural and livestock sector that can give us the satisfaction of having done something important for it, of which we fill too often the mouth and for which, instead, serious and long-term solutions are needed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u19	Mr President, my fellow senators, the news of the last few hours makes the issue that we are dealing with today dramatically come to light. Italy, in these hours, has been scourged by climate events that I would call almost unnatural for the moment, which are putting at serious risk a very important sector for our nation, which is precisely that of agriculture. These events are today a biblical scourge for our country and especially for agriculture. I am referring, in particular, to the hail that hits in May, especially those crops that are ready for harvest. These are natural disasters that destroy agriculture. In Puglia these days - I would like to give the representatives of the government an account of what is happening - there are arable crops, cherries and almonds devastated in the provinces of Bari, Taranto and Valle d'Itria. The trade associations have already made first estimates and first accounts: the damage amounts to hundreds of thousands of euros. In our provinces of Bari and Barletta-Andria-Trani, instead, to be lost today is 60 percent of a particular quality of cherry very important that must now be collected. We are talking, therefore, of really great damage to agriculture and especially to that of Apulia that - as you all know - is scourged in recent years by a historical problem that is that of xylella. We at Forza Italia have long asked you about ad hoc interventions, specific interventions for the problem of xylella in particular and then especially for the frosts of 2018. Unfortunately, today we can only say that the title of this measure refers to urgent provisions, but there is absolutely nothing urgent. Today this decree-law is only an attempt at refreshment, because in agriculture a year is a very long time, during which days of work have been lost, because the harvest has been lost, agricultural production has been lost in the immediate. You come a year late and you are tremendously far from solving the problem. And not only does the decree-law arrive late. As for the frosts in my territory of the Province of Foggia, Bari and Barletta-Andria-Trani, for the damages suffered by about 25,000 agricultural companies for 300 million euros, today only 20 million euros are placed in the Solidarity Fund, which are a percentage almost nothing compared to the damages suffered. My amendment to the Budget Committee to add another begging of just EUR 5 million was rejected by the government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What you have proposed, therefore, is only a drop in the sea. If the government had listened to us last year, when the problem was dealt with, surely we would have come to an ad hoc measure for both xylella and frosts. The frost wave that hit Puglia especially in 2018 was a historic event. Although with due respect for all the other problems that are afflicting the other Regions of Italy or concerning other sectors of the Country, for the problems highlighted the Government should have issued an ad hoc measure. I would like to remind you that the olive sector in Puglia makes national GDP and the damage suffered by the Apulian olive cultivation has affected the entire GDP of our nation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's good for the government to look at these data and remember them by heart. Today the national government and also the regional government are complicit in the delays because, if we had intervened in time, also and above all on the problem of xylella, perhaps today we should not have seen the devastation that struck our territory. Today we need radical interventions, even if they are traumatic and if they are carried out with heart pain. It takes extraordinary powers to get rid of the problem. The data are really shocking: in 2018 Puglia lost 317 million euros of gross production sold and a million working days. From January to September we were forced to import 304 million euros of oil from abroad: a damage to our territory. In the provinces of Bari and Barletta-Andria-Trani there are 90,000 hectares of affected crops, 300 million euros of damage and 20,000 fewer jobs. The agricultural sector today needs structural reforms, the mechanisms of the Solidarity Fund must be reviewed, which today is absolutely not enough and is very cumbersome and multi-risk policies must be reviewed, because they cannot give answers to farmers, they cost a lot and above all they do not cover in case of exceptional events. I would therefore appeal to the members of the Government, who cannot pin any medal on the chest for the measure under consideration, because it is too late, and above all it is disappointing, on issues that have been on the table of the Commission for the past year. So, in a year you have done very little, and this is an example, as usual and as happened also for other measures, of the government's ability to waste precious time, penalising those who work and those who produce. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u21	Mr President, I will focus specifically on Article 8 and its little brothers, who come later, namely the articles concerning the annoying xylella, containment measures and so on. I would like to start with a consideration: since all those who speak of xylella and argue that there is no definitive correlation between the presence of the bacterium and the desiccation of plants are branded as anti-scientific negationists, then I put mathematics in the field, which is the only exact science for at least 2,500 years: it is right since it was born. You have built the following proposition: the presence of annoying xylella, annoying subspecies, is equivalent to the desiccation and death of the olive tree. This is your proposition: it is a if and only if. Mathematics and propositional theory teach that if I find an example, which is called a counterexample, which makes this proposition fail, it is totally false. In fact, there are no propositions that are true a few times and a few times are false: either they are always true, or they are not just true and you do something else. The proof lies in the official data published by the Puglia Region, which was responsible for monitoring: out of 350,000 samples, which are a significant sample from the statistical point of view, the presence of the bacterium on the plants is about 2 percent. So there is no correlation and there is no equivalence between the two propositions that you have indicated, that is, the presence of the bacterium does not involve desiccation and decay of the plant. This is my first consideration. Therefore, everything that was built in the decree-law under consideration, which is based on this, does not work simply because it is based on a false hypothesis. A theorem with a false hypothesis is not a theorem, it is a nonsense, as my university professors would say. Having said that, let us look at what the measures under consideration provide for in detail. They intend to obey the European directives and the European Commission's implementing decision - the text of which I have in my hands at the moment - which says exactly what is written in the decree-law, in the face of the intention to go to Europe to aim for the feet. I've been in the Senate for six years, and I haven't seen a government that said they wanted to go to Europe and point their feet and did it. Instead we all go back with the tail between the legs, the directive in hand and we do exactly what is written. Moreover, the directive referred to in this case refers to an annex with the list of all quarantine pathogens and the Annex is not found. It would be interesting to have this annex, to understand exactly where the European Commission wants to go, because understanding exactly what pathogens are in that list makes you understand which sectors of our agro-industry and also the agro-forestry chain can be involved. Moreover, I know of the contradictions within what has been written, when compared with two paragraphs of the fiscal law for 2019, that if I am not mistaken are paragraphs 657 and 661 of Article 1. In the text at our examination it is written that, beyond the eradications also of monumental olive trees, that with paragraph 661 had been excluded from the register of monumental trees, thus putting in fact a beautiful target above, with written "Kill me" is allowed (it is written "can" and therefore we speak of a faculty) the grubbing up of olive trees even in the absence of obvious pathology and therefore epiphenomena. This rule, combined with paragraph 657 of Article 1 of the above-mentioned budget law, which allocated funds for the regeneration of Apulian olive growing, with the grubbing-up of sick plants and the replanting of tolerant or resistant plants, in fact favours in the first place the grubbing-up and secondly the preservation of the incubation of the bacterium of xylella. Durable plant, in fact, does not mean that the spitacchina arrives, understands that the plant is resistant and therefore makes the wide circle; it means that the presence of the bacterium does not cause any problem to the plant, as it does not cause it in 98 percent of the plants currently existing. Tolerating means that the bacterium causes something - even if science has not yet decided what - and the plant decays. In one case as in the other, these plants turn out to be vectors of the infections that you would like to fight here; therefore, the decree-law to the examination does not meet the supposed requirements of containment. Again, have you ever heard of Pierce's disease? It is an endemic disease in California, caused by a variant of the same bacterium (xylella annoying in another subspecies) that afflicts the vines. Well, they have been trying to eradicate the bacterium for a hundred years and have surrendered; they have decided that it is impossible, so they have relied not on the chemical struggle, but on other cultural practices. No one has obtained or worried - despite the fact that the Region of Puglia has even financed alternative experiments - to go and verify that actually alternative methods of fighting the complex of rapid desiccation have worked. Colleagues, it is also necessary to study: the xylella bacterium acts on the water pump inside the plant; it prevents water from going to the leaves and from evaporation, so in fact it prevents the plant from operating its refrigeration system. The leaves dry because they reach a high temperature because photosynthesis is not very efficient and produces a lot of waste heat. So, what should we do? We should first of all ask ourselves why xylella manages to settle on some plants and why it works on some of them. It is all a set of concauses: increase in environmental temperature, increase in soil temperature, lack of plant coverage, excessive use of desiccants and other garrisons, some of which are considered neurotoxic and prohibited by the European Union, but allowed in Italy. No one has investigated these aspects, so any result that is referred to as scientific and that lacks all these observations in the field is worth nothing. I make one final consideration, and this is my personal experience: it is the black sheep that makes your theorem fail. Experiment on a population of cypresses of the swamps afflicted by foliar rot; application of the plant protection garrison; posthumous conclusion: the problem was not in the leaves, it was not in the fungus but in the colloidification of the soil due to an excess of nitrogen fertilization. Therefore, a first approach was to put the garrison; second observation: given the plant to the pathologist for the examination, it was not the fault of the fungus, which had settled at the time when the plant was weakened by other causes. In the absence of this, I wonder how we can write a measure like this, so Article 8 should be deleted in the absence of scientific evidence. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u22	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u23	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is one of the sectors that make Made in Italy the gold of our country, as a sector of departure of the whole system, also of food and wine. In particular, Italian oil has always been recognized as one of the best in the world and its production has guaranteed the economic livelihood of olive growing areas. In Italy there are 150 million olive trees; in Puglia alone and in Salento there are 60 million olive trees. This means that only in Puglia and Salento the number of olive trees is equal to the number of inhabitants of Italy as a whole, and, of these 60 million, 300,000 are secular plants, if not millenarian, real historical monuments. Today a plague is scourged a heritage, which is not only agricultural but also landscape, tourist, cultural, gastronomic, economic - as my colleague Damiani said well, contributes to the GDP of Italy - risking to cause for every sector that I have mentioned incalculable damages, but above all really irreparable damage. This plague, which is called annoying xylella, is a microscopic alien bacteria for our territories, imported, which risks compromising national agriculture, because it affects not only the olive trees, but also all the stone trees. The question of xylella, in fact, that is bringing down the olive grove, is not only to be looked at as a local problem of Salento and Puglia, but as a tragedy for the whole country. The appropriations must not only be taken from the quota allocated to Puglia, remember, that is the point. Nobody can turn their heads over a calamity that has already caused more than EUR 1 billion of damage to date and that does not stop. The bacterium progresses at a speed of two kilometers per month and for the time being has caused the catastrophic collapse of oil production and the closure of activities - attention - especially of small producers from Apulia and Salento, who today are desperate and alone. It seems, among other things, that there are also outbreaks in Tuscany, in Orbetello, on Mount Argentario. Meanwhile, oil production in Italy collapsed from 600,000 tons in 2008 to 200,000 tons in 2018: only fifteen years ago our country was the world's first oil producer; today we ranch behind Spain, but in the last fifteen years it has made four extraordinary olive floors, which have allowed the replacement of old plants with new plants. Returning to the problem of xylella in Italy, the measures contained in the measure that we are about to vote may also be partially shared, but, as usual, it is the financial envelope that is absolutely scarce to activate the series of coordinated actions necessary for a battle that must be fought on several fronts. As always, it is a matter of foresight and order of priority. If we finance the income of citizenship, which is a very small measure, we cannot and must not save on what is going to sustain work, economy and income in one of the most important sectors on which Italian development is based, such as agriculture. There is an important consideration to be made. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is the country of small municipalities and it is around them that agricultural productions are concentrated, largely made by small producers. The small municipalities, however, precisely because they are not adequately supported, risk emptying themselves, depopulating themselves and we know very well what all this would mean, with exploding cities and abandoned territories. For this reason Forza Italia will present in a little more than a bill to activate the establishment of areas with a special economy for small municipalities, with tax reliefs, bureaucratic simplifications and building facilities for those who maintain their activities on the disadvantaged territories. We would like the government to follow us in this path of accompaniment to those in difficulty because it can no longer support its own agricultural enterprise: in fact, measures against poverty can not be implemented, on the one hand, and, on the other, not intervene to prevent it. Today we are witnessing an announced catastrophe and we cannot remain indifferent; above all, we cannot let only the Ministry of Agricultural Policy deal with an issue that must see the whole Government side by side with olive growers and farmers, especially small ones. My proposal is to move on several fronts in a coordinated and synergistic way, on the one hand in terms of research, to which adequate funds must be allocated by the Government, the Region and the European Union and, on the other hand, from the point of view of action and support for small farmers and the mayors representing them. Finally - this is what we are asking for today - it is necessary to create a dedicated, transversal technical-political table to follow every step and involve every specialized actor who can help overcome this critical moment, giving hope to a wonderful land. I invite you to come and see with your eyes; I assure you that you will weep. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat or deepen the issues inherent in the importance of agriculture in our country and the decisive role it plays for the economy, as well as for the management of the territory, because agriculture is practiced on the territory of our country, affecting its most important and most extensive part. However, I would like to take up a few points, because I have just heard the role of olive growing and the high weight of oil production in our country, but so far no one has said - and I will also go into the substance of the decree-law - that one of the main creators of problems in the agricultural sector is a Europe that has intended to respond to olive growing with the import of Tunisian oil. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is not the answer that must be given to our olive growers and in general. I mention only oil in order not to go too far off the subject, because the measure does not deal with this, but I could mention many other products of our country that must be encouraged and that instead are in crisis precisely because of wrong European choices, that we hope as soon as possible can be brought back to more appropriate options and that take our reality into greater consideration. The decree-law gives important answers to our country's emergencies. I believe that we must all - and I also thank a part of the opposition who pointed out this fact - acknowledge that the Government has dealt with these issues in a serious and concrete way, with answers that will soon turn into positive results. However, I would like to address a subject not only because I come from Liguria and precisely from that geographical area where the former Stoppani plant is still located today. It is known that Article 12 of the decree-law in question addresses the issue and problems of the reclamation of the area of Stoppani, probably little known to most, but very well known and with a great impact in that geographic reality, in that part of the Ligurian Riviera near the city of Genoa, included between the municipalities of Arenzano and Varazze. Stoppani was a Milanese chemical company with a plant located in Cogoleto, in the Province of Genoa, which produced chromium compounds mainly hexavalent: chrome and bichromatic sodium and potassium, chromic acid and sodium sulphate. This company was founded in the early twentieth century and during the many years of production and activity, in Cogoleto, due to its hazardous and toxic waste, have been verified serious situations of pollution of air, soil, subsoil and sands of the beaches; the company is located directly near the sea in a valley bottom where there is also a stream that comes out right in the sea in front. These problems spread to the west until Varazze, as well as to sediments and the food chain, starting from fish, molluscs and crustaceans, precisely because of the presence of hexavalent chromium and zinc in the landfill that is located in Molinetto. The plant ceased its production activity in 2003 and after the closure of the factory the Stoppani changed its name and became Real estate Val Lerone. As I said, Article 12 of the Decree-Law regulates a series of measures aimed at completing the urgent measures necessary for the plant Stoppani, located in Cogoleto (also provided for in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2006) and identified as a site of national interest for environmental reclamation procedures. With the measure under consideration, initiatives are taken, important provisions are given to continue the work that comes before the actual reclamation; I am referring to the safety that is not completed today. During the examination in the Chamber, several modifications were introduced, also related to the management of the Molinetto landfill, including the personnel who deal with these issues and an extraordinary expenditure of five million euros was added to go in the direction of the reclamation. The main subject that will be actuator of this path is the prefect, who will have to collaborate with the Ministry of the environment that I thank for the interest, although slightly late compared to the deadline of 21 December last, compared to this reality that has a huge weight and that for some decades has been the object of activity, starting also from that of the Liguria Region. We have to recognise that the deadline proposed for reclamation, 31 December 2021, is very ambitious, because it is a great work, which requires a considerable effort. Therefore, we hope that we can reach 2021 in order to reach the final targets, even if before reaching the actual reclamation it is necessary to conclude the path of safety. I say this because the municipality of Cogoleto has changed a lot since this type of activity was abandoned. Today it can be quietly classified - I say it for those who did not know it - as an important reality also of tourist character of the Ligurian Riviera of the west. Getting to the bottom of this route, however, would certainly offer an important contribution to achieve and restore due dignity to Cogoleto, as well as to the other municipalities in the area. However, I would also like to mention another subject, which - alas - has only been dealt with on two agendas, and not on the substance of the decree. One of these agendas is the rapporteur, Mr Vallardi, whom I thank for interpreting this problem. Because agriculture has an emergency in this country. I say this to the Government and, in particular, to the Undersecretary, who has certainly been urged several times in this direction and in the many moments of encounter that there have been, not only with the agricultural professional associations, but also with all that micro agriculture that is certainly not directly connected to a strong economic induced, but that exists in our country. Well, that micro-farming, of passion or leisure time, which affects some millions of citizens in our country, is subject to an impact, that of wildlife, native or alloctonous that is, that, not only causes damage, but, in some cases, even prevents the development of historical natural agricultural forms, those more natural and more linear. This problem is spread, practically, over the whole country. It is enough to go and visit the people dedicated to this sector because among the first problems they pose on the table there is to verify just the one relative to the impact with the wildlife. It is worth remembering here a problem, on which I also presented a bill: the regulation of the management of wildlife in our country dates back to a law of 1992, when the wildlife was of different nature, when certain forms of wildlife affecting the agricultural world were not present. This law must be revised. I say this to everyone; I also say this to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars who have repeatedly given contrary signals to the solution of this type of problem. I quote the last case, which has created a bit of anger even within the agricultural world, because the response to the management of the wildlife that causes damage cannot go through the tightening of criminal sanctions for those who take down a nourishing rather than a transfer. The solution must be of a different nature and cannot go through criminal sanctions for those who use bait to fight mice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] These are things that I have read recently, Mr President, in a proposal for a law that goes in the opposite direction to the problem, which I hope will be dealt with as soon as possible by an important amendment of the national law No 157 of 1992 which goes in this direction, as also wished on the agenda presented by the rapporteur, Mr Vallardi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the point of this speech is to make a contribution of clarity, including of a scientific nature, on the alleged xylella emergency in Puglia, with the intention of leading this House to a serious and objective reflection on the subject and on the best initiatives to be taken. A first fundamental aspect to be clarified is that of the effective spread of the xylella bacterium in the southern territory of Puglia. We usually talk about the xylella epidemic, delineating outside the image of a territory devastated by the bacterium, resulting in very serious damage to agriculture and the regional oil industry and, of course, the image of that wonderful area of Puglia. This representation, indeed, is not reflected in the objective and official data published by the same authorities concerned. In fact, on the basis of the latest data available in the possession of the Puglia Region, the presence of the bacterium would cover an extremely low percentage, however no more than 1.8% of the olive trees present in the territory concerned. On the point, to confirm the objective unfoundedness of the alarmist tones used in relation to the phenomenon of the quo, it is worth pointing out that the percentages are substantially similar - if not, for the precise fact - to those of four years ago, period in which the appearance of the bacterium in Puglia has been ascertained. A fundamental point of the whole affair, also for the economic interests at stake, linked above all to the use of public funds dedicated to this purpose, is certainly the identification of the type of measures to be taken to combat xylella. The Puglia Region and the Government consider that the infected trees and those most exposed to the contagion must be cut and replaced with olive trees other than the native Apulian ones and, at least on paper, more resistant to the bacterium. In this sense, trade union organisations are also expressed, with requests for further concessions of public funds for the eradication and replacement of olive trees. Those who oppose the cutting of olive trees, considering it a useless and harmful measure, are accused, in various ways, of being negationists, chatterers, ignorant and even criminals and obscurantists. It is probably useful to clarify some aspects. The annoying xylella is a polyphagus bacterium, which has the ability to survive on hundreds of plants both herbaceous and arboreal. In this sense, it is obvious that it is useless to remove one million olive trees, as suggested by the advocates of eradication, without actually resolving the problem. The bacterium, in fact, would still remain on millions of spontaneous plants, and then move quietly on the surrounding tree plants. It is therefore indisputable a fact: the cut of the olive trees does not remove the bacteria from the surrounding environment. There are currently no cases in the world where plant eradication has managed to combat the bacterium, as clarified by EFSA in 2013 and then - again - in 2015. Moreover, no known research indicates the destructions, nor the treatments with pesticides as resolving solutions. The problem, then, would remain. And, then, it is natural to ask a series of questions. What's the point of cutting olive trees? Why destroy the Apulian environment? Why throw public money away for a basically useless business? And so, upstream, there are other not less significant ones, and in particular: why, five years after the appearance of the problem, with a substantially constant trend, only 1.8% of the olive trees are now infected by the bacterium? Does it make sense today to proceed with the policies of eradication of hundreds of thousands of olive trees, largely not even touched by xylella (they are healthy olive trees), when - moreover - one is aware of its usefulness for the elimination from the environment of the bacterium? With these questions it is not intended to question the existence of xylella - as one would say - but only to highlight the absolute useless eradication of olive trees as a measure of contrast to the bacterium. If, therefore, it seems inescapable to live with the annoying xylella one cannot but pose the problem of what agricultural practices should be adopted in order to ensure that, in the case of this species, the olive trees can resist the bacterium. As recent studies have shown, the quality of the land is an essential factor. Intensive agriculture and climate change have led to the reduction of organic carbon in the soil, resulting in loss of fertility and adverse effects on soil quality. Soils are essential for good production. However, the soil analyses of sites in the infected area in Puglia revealed an absolute poverty of organic substances. The main agricultural practices to improve the fertility and structure of soils and soils concern the application of composted soil improvers, mature manure, subvesty, spontaneous insertion and various minerals. The micro-organisms present in the soil protect plants from the attack of pathogens, promote water absorption and neutralize toxic compounds that inhibit plant growth. A further remedy is proper irrigation of the soil. A good management of the hairs provides, in fact, frequent prunings, which play a fundamental role in countering the xylella. 11:14 a.m. (Following CIAMPOLILLO). Simply put, in case of attack of xylella an olive in good water and nutritional condition, subjected to a correct cycle of pruning, can resist with new shoots and a renovated hair. As noted in authoritative scientific studies, similar cases of other plant diseases on different cultures have shown that it is possible to live with the pathogen through the adoption of cultivation practices aimed at favoring the good vegetative state of the plant and containing the spread of the pathogen. These considerations are contained in the sector reports annexed to the hearing before the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture of 9 October 2018, respectively by Professor Cristos Xiloyannis of the University of Basilicata and the pathologist and plant biologist, Dr. Margherita D'Amico, as well as demonstrated by various researches on the field, including those financed by the Region of Puglia. By the admission of the various scientific leaders, the experiments already show amply that it is possible to cure the phenomenon of desiccation, beyond the presence or not of the bacterium, through different types of treatments associated with good agronomic practices. From the point of view of the clear vegetative-productive recovery of sick olive trees or even data for deaths, there are now numerous positive observational and scientific evidences, obtained on the field both from individual olive growers and from research groups (among these the professors Scortichini and Xyloyannis and the doctors D'Amico, Polo and Giovannetti). These results confirm the ability of plants to react to pathogens attacks without any impact on production. This leads to the conclusion that it is not only possible to live together the olive trees with the bacterium but also that the desiccation of the olive trees does not decree their death. That is what the Scortichini report says. It can then be concluded, in line with the most modern scientific studies, recalling the title of the very recent conference that I organized last May 2nd with the Movimento 5 Star Group here in the Senate "How to effectively combat xylella without destroying millions of Apulian olive trees, that the bacterium can be effectively fought and that the olive trees, even the sick ones, can be cured. Care, in fact, exists and deserves to be promoted and supported by our institutions. I am talking about those of the Scortichini method, of the recent discoveries on the effectiveness of electromagnetic waves as an instrument to produce the explosion of the xylella bacterium, already verified in the laboratory, and of the natural products of the Nuovolivo method, a soap now widespread in the Salento countryside. The dry olive trees are back new. Colleagues, I invite you to see them. I would like to recall the great echo in the press that the conference had, precisely because of the news offered on the concrete possibility of winning the xylella. See, on page 6 of the manifesto, Article Xylella, scientists against "mass eradication" of 4 May 2019. Let us not forget the very sad pages written by the Salento judiciary on the enslavement of the Apulian CNR to mercantile logics and the grabbing of public funding, far from the proper function that this institute should have carried out. See the unworthy content of the intercepts of the interviews of Professor Boscia of CNR with other colleagues, appeared on the recent 8 May 2019 in the national press: ==References====External links== The judge cut off Laura Margottini's scientists on the Daily Fact. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] It is now clear that the aim of the CNR has been to create alarmism and to hinder the search for a true cure, in order to favor the unscathed plan - I dare say criminal - of those who intend to destroy more than 11 million olive trees, almost all healthy, to lucare on the public funds and plant insulting and intensive saplings that require a non-existent water supply in Puglia and that produce an oil of little value. The patent of these saplings is attributable - look a bit'- to the same CNR, with every imaginable consequence. These facts are now at the attention of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Bari; the same prosecutor who, on my complaint, has, among other things, seized the olive tree of Monopoli, where it has recently been established that there was actually no xylella bacteria. The Region, on the basis of that fake investigation of the Regional Agency for Irrigation and Forestry (ARIF) Puglia, like many others in the past not documentable, has, however, extended and redefine the containment belt, thus involving other healthy trees in the crazy policy of eradication. False and superficial findings, misfaith of the research authorities, superficiality guilty of politics, inability of the regional administration are all factors that are condemning to death the wonderful territory of Puglia. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to prevent this disaster, this unworthy crime against our environment and our beloved land. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the International School of Media in Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] I know our colleague Gianmauro Dell'Olio's daughter is also present. We salute you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u29	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration is generally to be taken into account, although many important issues which emerged during the hearings of professional and cooperative organisations in the agricultural sector remain open and await a more incisive response. In a number of respects it would be very useful, during this debate, to reopen a reasoning that takes into account improvements that actually give a real response - and therefore a solution - to those who, in recent years, have been severely affected by the very strong and unprecedented waves of bad weather and the spread of the annoying xylella: events that have put in huge difficulties strategic sectors of the Apulian and national economy. Just think of the frosty notes that occurred with memorable hardness in February and March of 2018, such as to destroy thousands of hectares of crops and for which the state of natural calamity was asked, as well as the very serious and rapid spread of the annoying xylella, able to bring to its knees the precious and renowned olive-olear sector of Puglia. Several trade associations have tried to estimate the amount of damage caused by the disease. Last January the association of direct cultivators presented a picture with really scary contours: an environmental, economic and landscape damage simply not quantifiable. From this situation, as was said, the sector comes out severely damaged: thousands of jobs lost, hundreds of companies forced to close their doors, a product like oil, symbol of our Apulia, seriously threatened by a disease that spreads at worrying speeds and that has now arrived at the gates of the Plain of monumental olive trees. As stated above, therefore, the scale of the tragedy for agriculture in Apulia does not allow any certificate of complete satisfaction for the measure which will shortly be approved. Rather, they stimulate the need to further strengthen the measures in the overall framework of attention to be given to the revival of all agricultural sectors in crisis at national level and to support all agri-food companies affected by adverse weather events of an exceptional nature. In this regard, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled amendments and agendas which come into the substance of the issues precisely in order to achieve the necessary objectives. But if it is no longer possible to return what nature has taken away, this Parliament can and must put in place clear and clear interventions to allow everyone to leave, ensuring a future far from the dramas experienced in recent years. We must do better: we must give support for the frosts of last winter, not only on an emerging level. Now our urgent task and the urgent and untenable demand that the whole agricultural world is asking us to further structure this measure, bringing improvements and measures to compensate even some obvious asymmetries. Thanks to further provisions to be included in the draft law, a concrete embankment could be put (in fact) to the spread of xylella, despite the obstructive positions and the unscientific madness of some who have slowed down all actions aimed at stopping the disaster. Let us put at the centre of this measure how, that is, the practical operating modalities by which the competent authorities would have all the useful means to truly stop phytopathology and involve all those who will stubbornly oppose it. It is important to be there, undoubtedly providing for the allocation of resources, but above all with a scientific attention to a medium and long-term programming that, in addition to solving, prevents, allowing to recover and to resume to walk with its own legs. It is a special attention that deserves our land and our economy that have always represented excellence, for Puglia and for the whole Nation. At the end of my speech, Mr President, allow me to add a political consideration. Today I am reading an agency - I call you because, in my opinion, it is extremely significant - of a statement by the Undersecretary Crimes, which says that there must be no extension to the Convention with Radical Radio: this is not a decision worthy of our democratic history and as long as there is time I ask the Government to change line and leave voice to a radio that for many years offers an important public service. I thank you for listening and for giving me the opportunity also to emphasize this element that I consider absolutely important for the democratic life of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u30	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the few millions of euros made available by the Government to deal with the damage of the xylella and the frosts of 2018 may seem like alms to some, but I want to be proactive and see them as a start, as I have already said at some meeting in the presence of the Minister. In my own country, the elderly say that little is always preferable between little and nothing. Forza Italia has always been on the side of farmers, those who do business and workers in the sector that characterizes my region, Puglia. We need additional and adequate resources to respond to the two emergencies, but we also need to ascertain the responsibilities to avoid the repetition of these very serious failures. Of all, forgive me, that of the regional government. The xylella is now at the gates of Bari and continues to advance every day, after having destroyed, perhaps forever, the olive growing of Salento. 11.25 a.m. (Minute follow-up). We must not hide the very serious responsibilities of the current regional government, because it is clear to everyone that it has done little or nothing to deal with this real tragedy in a proper way. In fact, the Puglia Region has not provided for the declaration of natural disaster, nor has it accelerated the eradications. Colleagues, if you do not contrast the advance of the bacteria will not suffice, nor will it ever be necessary, funds to compensate and restore the lands affected by the emergency. Another aspect that we will have to consider is that the quality and proper use of plant protection products are fundamental to protecting our environment. That, gentlemen, I do not say, but the agronomists and farmers of our territory. In the government decree there are points that concern an increase of the National Solidarity Fund (equivalent to 20 million euros) and the question of reclamation consortia that require additional resources, but that do not show that they respect those parameters of efficiency and functionality minimal and indispensable. It also allocated EUR 5 million for interest on agricultural loans in 2019, which is needed to support farmers. Several professional associations complain about the limited nature of the fund, and I agree that it is only a necessary starting point for our agricultural policies to be firmly restarted. Little, too little, however, has been done for the operators of the sheep and goat sector, who expected much more than the few euros to support the price: they were waiting for answers and structural and long-term proposals; promises that have instead been ignored. Another issue is the need to protect our agro-food excellences, especially those protected by designations of origin that characterize our beautiful country. It is clear that agriculture is also serving the negative effects of globalisation, especially as regards the counterfeiting of our goods and today more than ever it is urgent to implement clear and stringent policies that prevent such practices and protect the Italian agri-food sector. There are also campaigns to raise public awareness about the importance of buying Italian products and, where possible, local products. We consumers who go shopping must buy as much as we know, at the right price, to pay tribute to the efforts of our farmers who produce excellent products, under difficult conditions, but with the best quality standards in the world (let's never forget). Quality must be paid at the right price, we cannot get used to eating standardized products and perhaps filled with substances that alter its natural processes. We see it - and I address it especially to women senators - when we buy our famous zucchini. I went around the land of our territory. How much water comes out of the courgettes? This means that hormones are injected, there are chemicals. Instead taste the zucchini that is cultivated in a natural way: during its capture never comes out of water and is good for our organism and the environment. For decades, however, South agriculture has suffered from shameful infrastructure deficiencies - we in Forza Italia will never tire of saying so - which prevent it from competing on the market on equal terms. Agricultural goods are often highly perishable and, especially in the export field, it is impossible to think that we can develop economies without our entrepreneurs having the opportunity to send these goods in a short time and under the appropriate conditions. Senator Bruzzone spoke earlier about the oil coming from Tunisia. True, European policy has probably not protected us enough in recent years with regard to our oil, but it is also true that Tunisia's oil costs much less than the oil we produce. But politics has always been like this; I remember when I was a child, the politicians of the time said: We of the South produce excellent oil but, when it reaches the North, they remove the label and put their oil on it. We must all be united on these battles, because they are fundamental for the good of our country; there is no one who wants good and who wants evil: here we are all united for the good of our country. Our young people want to create new opportunities for development and want to do so in their own lands, especially in the agri-food sector, perhaps focusing on measures aimed at the enhancement of abandoned and uncultivated agricultural land. On May 1st we went around to see our land and there are many abandoned, because by now the parents become old, they no longer cultivate the land and the children leave us. We must convince them to stay and give these young people opportunities so that they can, for example, create social and agri-food cooperatives in my own territory to grow these products. You have to give this chance. By the way, these lands, if left in a state of abandonment, represent an environmental risk, especially in the summer with fires. Encouraging youth entrepreneurship with adequate economic training policies would certainly be a lever to help these youngsters get up and walk on their own. In our South, young people want to invest, grow and rise up with their own strength, starting, as I said before also from agriculture, but they feel abandoned by the Government. Let me say that I may never have agreed on citizenship income, but I have always seen something positive for some people. The other night, in an association in which I participate where there are elderly people and in which I eat of their knowledge, there was a real pilgrimage: they asked me why they were not accepted to obtain the famous income of citizenship. Reflecting, I realized that when I was a girl there were the same people who were asking for subsidies; it was thirty-five years ago and I heard that we are taking steps backwards because we thought of putting these people into the working world by putting them to work. How? [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, give me two more minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u32	Senator, you've already exceeded your time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u33	MINUTE (FI-BP). It was thought to put them in the working world as socially useful workers and then with the yards. It does not want to be a controversy, believe me: we have always tried to help them find employment. Let me close by a thought for our farmers in Puglia who, already bent by xylella, are facing a new bad weather emergency in these hours with hail, which has hit and destroyed dozens of hectares of crops, species of cherries. They are abandoned to themselves: in fact, there is no real emergency plan that helps them Today more than ever we need to guard our farmers, simple and serious people who love trees, knows the sun, the wind and all the forces that govern our land. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator D'Alfonso. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are called upon to discuss the draft law on the conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent measures to relaunch the agricultural sectors in crisis. It provides, inter alia, for funds to improve the quality of pig products and animal welfare on their holdings. To this end, Article 11-a of the Decree-Law under consideration provides for the establishment of a National Pig Farming Fund, with a budget of EUR 1 million for 2019 and EUR 4 million for 2020. For the allocation of these resources, the Decree-Law currently under discussion provides that the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism shall define, by decree, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, and after agreement within the Permanent State-Regions Conference, the criteria and methods for the use of the Fund, within the framework of a specific plan. For the allocation of these resources, the bill under discussion today provides that the Minister of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies shall define, by decree, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and after agreement in the Permanent State-Regions Conference, the criteria and methods for the use of the fund, within the framework of a specific plan. My intervention is aimed at protecting the respect for animal welfare, which must be pursued especially in intensive farms where it is seriously endangered. To this end, I hope that the agenda I have presented will find the support of this Parliament. In fact, it aims to commit the Government to ensure that at the time of issuing this decree it respects the principle of legality in the allocation and allocation of the National Fund for pig farming. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they seem strong, almost rhetorical (legal) words, but they are not if we reflect on the fact that some practices absolutely prohibited by European and national legislation are still used in many intensive farms throughout Italy. In particular, as regards the pig chain, on 8 March 2016, the European Commission adopted Recommendation 336 of 2016 on the application of Council Directive 120 of 2008 on rules for the protection of pigs, with particular reference to measures to reduce the need for caudectomy. The European Court of Auditors, in its Special Report No 31 of 2018 on animal welfare, pointed out that in some sectors weaknesses related to the conditions of livestock at farms, with particular reference to the usual cutting of the tail in pigs, the non-compliance with the legislation on long-distance transport and the transport of unfit animals, the use of the derogation for slaughter without stunning and inadequate stunning procedures. Indeed, in intensive farms, under stressful animal conditions, if pigs are not provided with adequate environmental enrichment material (such as straw or hay) or if the aeration is not optimal or there are other problems related to the management of the farm, pigs turn their frustration on others, biting themselves and even eating among themselves. For this reason the need to systematically cut off the tail of the pigs is very often a sign of environmental problems and management of the farm. So much so that the European pig protection directive provides for caudectomy as the latest ratio, and that before it is carried out it is necessary to modify the environmental conditions with adequate management systems. Practices such as tooth cutting or tooth grinding, castration, and chopping of the tail are absolutely harmful to the well-being of pigs; however, they are still widely practiced. To put an end to these hateful practices, last February a note was issued by the Directorate-General for Animal Health and Veterinary Drugs of the Ministry of Health on: Clarifications on the National Action Plan for the improvement of the application of Legislative Decree No 122 of 2011, which lays down minimum standards for the protection of pigs and which provides for a precise timetable for farmers, with fixed deadlines for adjustment. My agenda is aimed precisely at compliance with existing legislation. In the issuing decree, in fact, the Government will have to verify that the funds for pig farming are paid to the farms that respect the law and that they are adapting to it, through a serious path aimed at the promotion of animal welfare. There can no longer be any referrals, we are asked by supranational and national legislation; I am asked by my previous commitment to respect for the rights of animals and the aspiration to the end of the age of cages. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is always in hope. In agriculture you cannot expect tomorrow because tonight it rains and hails and you lose the harvest that is the hard work of a whole year. These are not my words but of a farmer I met just the other night in Altavilla Silentina in the province of Salerno, home of the buffalo chain. Franco is one of the many farmers disappointed by the measures put in place so far for the agricultural world, which continues to live only in emergency and emergency. In the measure that we are discussing, apart from the positive proposals that I take, however, there are patches; certainly better the patch than the hole, but I must point out that despite the much-proclaimed Government of change, the whole food supply chain continues to be managed only and only in emergency and there are no great gaps in order to achieve a management that acts directly on the resolution of the various problems ataviche. The disasters that continue to affect agriculture, even in these last hours, caused by adverse weather conditions, do not receive immediate feedback from the farmers; testimony is the granting of contributions to repair the frost in Puglia of February 2018, which will certainly be appreciated, but it arrives without a doubt with delay and not in tune with the times of agriculture. Farmers live in uncertainties and hopes, while for the type of work they should be encouraged in real time to try to alleviate their enormous inconveniences; I think of the other regions that still do not see the light, after the disasters they have had to face: one for all the destruction of the vineyards of farmers in my Beneventano. These too deserved attention and do not yet have it in full; they together with many others in all the other Regions of Italy. As it deserved and deserves much more attention, for example, the fight against annoying xylella: beyond what has already been put on the field, many - scholars and not - believe that it is not the killing of millions of monumental plants that solve the contamination. Many believe that in order to contribute to the revival of Puglia's agriculture and in particular to support the regeneration of olive growing in infected areas (excluding the part subject to the restrictions of the containment zone, in the state of forecast of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism), a fund should be established for the implementation of an extraordinary plan for the olive regeneration of Puglia, with a percentage of this fund to be allocated to the financing of applied research projects that had as their sole and exclusive objective the testing of therapeutic and control procedures, chemical, biological or integrated, specifically aimed at containing the development of the pathogen in the plants attacked increasing the level of tolerance of the infection, that is to reduce the levels of injection in the environments of relevance of the olive cultivations. Such research projects could be managed by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy through competitive calls with the help of well-known expert evaluators identified on an international scale. Provision should also be made for the allocation of part of the funds to applied research projects, where most of the resources have to date been used for the monitoring and characterization of the pathogen and its phytopathy. To date there are no major interventions aimed exclusively at testing protocols for the fight against xylella and its symptoms, also imported from other experiences of control of the same pathogen in other geographical areas and on different cultures (an example for all is Pierce's disease in the United States, caused by xylella on vine, for which it has been reached for many years an acceptable level of control and without general killings). Also for the citrus sector there is a pressing crisis: the price of many products of excellence has collapsed so much that our farmers prefer to let the fruits rot on the tree, because it would cost more to harvest them than the marginality resulting from the sale. Meanwhile, however, our supermarkets are flooded with tons of foreign products at broken prices, with the consequent mortification of an attempt to compete impossible to prepare. We all still have in our eyes the images of the dozens of hectolitres of goat's milk spilled through the streets of Sardinia, let us set ourselves the goal that the same thing does not happen even with oranges, clementines and lemons in our South. Let us therefore try to intervene in less time than we have seen for Puglia. Moreover, EUR 14 million was spent on distributing Roman PDO cheese to the poor, could not five million be spent on distributing citrus fruits, just as rich in vitamins, to the poor? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A separate mention I would dedicate to the chain of buffalo mozzarella: the chain of bell buffalo mozzarella DOP represents both an envied and imitated excellence in the world and a fundamental component of the economic fabric, especially for the regions traditionally dedicated to its realization. Buffalo breeding is also a significant economic reality for Italian livestock and especially for the regions traditionally dedicated to the breeding of this species. The measure with regard to the dairy sector focuses only on cow's milk, sheep's milk and goat's milk products imported from countries of the European Union and third countries. Very well, but it's not enough. Nothing has been done in the text under discussion for this area. Do we always have to wait for emergencies or the price drop to do something? I have tabled a number of amendments from this world, but of course they have all been rejected in the Commission. I have returned them to the House, but I certainly have no hope that they will be accepted, as happened on the many other occasions when I tabled amendments, and with me many of my colleagues. Is this also due to the propaganda change? The territories are not listened to, we only think by majority, in the face of democracy and change. We talk about traceability management, but a virtuous example of managing the traceability of milk and its derivatives is already present in Italy and is used and tested for the buffalo chain. In fact, the computer platform for the traceability of the buffalo chain, conceived by the experimental zooprofilative Institute of the Mezzogiorno, in collaboration with the Department of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Naples, and issued by the Ministerial Decree of 9 September 2014, characterized the commercial growth of buffalo milk and buffalo mozzarella DOP, contributing to the increase of the price at the stable of about 40-50 percent. The collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism and with the Ministry of Health has allowed the realization of a virtuous system able to help, protect and enhance the entire Buffalo sector. The evolution of the system, born from the necessity of all the actors of the supply chain, represents a model tested and applicable to other animal species, such as sheep, goats and cattle. So I wonder why not use this platform also for these species, addressing who has actually already used it? Ultimately, the creation, application and management by those who already have a well-established experience of a system already in place and tested and which has led to excellent results could be a driver for the growth of the dairy sector. The optimization of the system, currently supported thanks to the commitment of the Zooprofilattico Institute of Portici and to the few resources made available by the Campania Region, is closely linked to an economic contribution and not to the voluntaryness of the same. I asked for an amendment to support EUR 700,000, so that we can continue with this project; well, this request has also been rejected. I therefore wonder why I do not use the same platform and the same operators who in recent years have acquired competence to do so. Their know-how could promote the commercial growth of milk of other species. This is a solution that seems not to be Italian and perhaps too thoughtful: let's see if the Government of change really wants to change. In order to help young people, why not provide aid for non-refundable funding for the establishment of mini-houses, to meet the needs of small farms in internal areas? It would be good and fair, but we'll see what happens. In addition, it would have been appropriate to improve the traceability system for milk and dairy products by implementing systems to monitor the geographical derivation of products, through instruments with a high knowledge content (homic science). In order to make the high technology usable and easily usable, it would have been appropriate to provide funding for scientific research in this particular and particular sector. I mean, nice President and nice colleagues, there's a lot to do. We wait and wait to see what will happen below: we will do our part. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u38	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u39	Mr President, I will also comment on Article 8 et seq. of the Decree-Law under consideration. I would like to begin by saying that, because of the idea that I have followed the story not directly in the Commission but mostly as a citizen from the Salento lands, the question xylella is an example of politics and science that bow to market logics, favouring the interests of multinational pesticides producers and agricultural speculators, who intend to change the territory in favour of hyperintense productions and various speculations. In the background there are research centers, which, in conjunction with the fierce cuts of governments in recent years, have been transformed into companies constantly seeking private funding, to whose logic the same scientific data are bent. I would like to mention three facts which have taken place in the last two weeks, which strengthen my conviction. Twelve days ago, on 3 May, the gip of the court of Lecce closed the investigation opened in 2015 following three exhibits at the attorney of Lecce presented by environmental associations, because there were no connections between the propagation of the bacterium xylella and the conducts or trials carried out by the former suspects. In the 2014 events of the association No OGM, among other things, the survey Xylella report, in which it was believed that the managers of the Regional Health Service had lied to the European inspectors, falsely communicating that the trees infected by xylella in 2013 were 100 percent of the samples analyzed, well knowing that in reality they result from the analyses carried out 21 infected trees out of 1,757 tested, therefore little more than one percent. Great delays, negligences and omissions were mentioned by those responsible for the regional plant protection service in detecting and communicating to the competent bodies the onset of the first symptoms of plant diseases of olive trees, reported since 2008. Admissions emerge from the statements of Giovanni Martelli, at the time director of the chair of plant virology of the University of Bari, in an article written on the site of the Academy of Georgofili. From that year until 2013, when the problem emerged from the mass media, no action of contrast or containment of the bacterium was planned or implemented, and according to the prosecutor's office the laboratories in charge of carrying out the analyses needed the time necessary to obtain the accreditation in order to be able to carry out the manipulation of the bacterium. The proxy, therefore, has established that there has been incredible sloppyness in the sampling of the materials on which to carry out the analyses in order to prove the presence of the bacterium. There are disturbing conversations between the investigators, researchers and managers of the plant health observatory. From the exchange of e-mails among the suspects - the position of some has been archived in Lecce but part of the investigation has been transferred to Bari - it is evident the preponderance of the economic interest, that is the prospect of obtaining financing, regarding the purpose of scientific research. The Mignone and Licci prosecutors say that this second purpose has clearly conditioned the approach of the suspects to the issue since the very first jokes, even to the detriment of the transparency of scientific research. However, the prosecutor has legitimately asked to close the investigation because there is no evidence of the link between the behaviour of the former suspects - mainly managers of the regional plant protection service, but also researchers - and the spread of the xylella bacteria. A second episode occurred on May 8, 2019 is related to an olive tree in the agro of Monopoli, in the province of Bari, destined to the killing and negative result to an assessment by the Region Puglia. The official data provided by the Region say that, out of 450,000 sampled plants, only 2 percent are infected by the bacterium xylella annoying; just a few thousand, and not all of them dry out. This circumstance was also verified during the work of the TAP, when, asking the company to the Puglia Region for the authorization of the move of olive trees for the construction of the pipeline, it has emerged that, out of 450, only three were positive to the bacterium, in the agri of Melendugno (0.7 percent). From the same xylella plane it appears that the analyses have identified 2 percent of infected plants in the containment area and 0.1 percent in the buffer zone. In short, simply going to fish from the recent chronicle we find another example of how false the assumption - which I have heard repeated in this Chamber too - according to which this pestile bacterium, like a bubonic plague of a few centuries ago, is advancing to the South towards the North of Puglia - with the risk of spreading in the rest of Italy - and is the cause of the phenomenon of the rapid desiccation of the olive tree [[Applause from Senator Martelli]] That's from the scientific data. I quote one last time. Yesterday we all heard that Bayer's shares (which acquired Monsanto, already an American company, which produces, among other things, a product that uses the molecule of barium) collapsed following the umpteenth - the third and most substantial - judgment of a California court that sentenced it to compensation of 2 billion dollars. Well, that collapse on the stock market is symptomatic; they are not yet final judgments, they are directly related to damage to people. On the other hand, it is clear from all the scientific evidence in the international context, which I am not referring to here, that it is adversely affecting the agricultural environment alone. Why do I make a reference to cesium? Because what many clues convince me - and more than me people who follow with technical skills certainly superior to my agricultural matter in an attempt to outline and understand what is happening, namely that there are thousands of olive trees and hectares of completely dried olive cultivation - is that the phenomenon of desiccation is probably due to a series of concauses of which the xylella bacteria, when it intervenes, is only one. In fact, I repeat, to avoid misunderstandings, that there are plants affected by the bacterium that are alive, vegetate and produce and there are dried plants that are not affected by the bacterium. This would be enough to bring down - as Mr Martelli said before - the logical assumption, even before technical and agronomic, of the causal connection for which we want to face the xylella with methods that are evidently wrong, such as those proposed in the decree-law that we are preparing to convert. Eradication is not used to stop the bacterium, which is probably not the cause of the desiccation because, as unfortunately evidenced by the data of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), in the land of Salento and in particular in the province of Lecce, there was a concentration of kilograms per hectare of plant protection drugs, mostly based on throwaway, in double or triple percentages compared to the other provinces of Apulia and Italy. In short, it has happened that in recent decades we have impoverished the soil of organic matter and nutrients and we have deserted the earth to such an extent that even the olive trees, millennial plants that have resisted for centuries fires and all kinds of climatic adversities, are now dying. Evidently the cause has been man, who has applied industrial chemistry in agriculture, with the use of products that make in the territory of the province of Lecce there are today some areas where organic matter is less than 1%, with a situation comparable to that of the Sahel. All this happens in a historically droughty land, without water. That's why I think it's a bad idea - if someone is considering it - to think of replacing those historical crops, which also have their own landscape, cultural and territorial identity value, with intensive plantations that would need a further increase in the use of industrial chemistry and water, which we do not have, because in the province of Lecce the layer is also salting. We will discuss this again - I hope - at the time when we will be given an explanation of the amendments, when, in addition to the repealing proposals for the individual paragraphs of Article 8 and the subsequent articles, other amendments will also be examined at my signature - but I also see other fellow senators - which would tend to soften the devastating impact that the measures contained in this decree-law would entail for the lands of Apulia. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u40	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, although aware of the political situation and of the institutional process that sees this measure at second reading in the Senate Chamber, we do not, however, shy away from our task, sometimes of criticism, but often of solicitation towards the majority. This is an emerging measure, which seeks to give a solution, albeit temporary, to the many emergencies and needs that unfortunately affect the agricultural sector and indirectly the agri-food sector which, I would like to remind the whole House, thanks to the excellence of our made in Italy food, is not only one of the most important export sectors, but also one of the most remarkable and important and productive sectors. That is precisely why, although we are not completely satisfied with this measure, we are nevertheless trying to maintain a positive attitude in this debate. Italian agriculture needs a new structural plan - it calls for it loudly - to enable it to face the new challenges ahead. These are environmental challenges, due to a well-established change in climate conditions, which have transformed exceptional and sporadic events into recurring events increasingly in anomalous and violent form, and in these days we have the demonstration of this; economic and financial challenges, due to an increasingly competitive and aggressive market by foreign competitors on our products, which unfortunately often pushes in the illegality with the counterfeiting of our brands; generational challenges, partly due to an ageing of our producers and a lack of generational turnover and partly to a lack of infrastructure and technological backwardness, also motivated by the location in poor areas of the same companies. 12:00 p.m. (Follows La PIETRA). Then there are political and institutional challenges with a Europe that does not see with good eye our specificity and the need to preserve and protect our productions, because it does not understand the value of our traditions and our need and will to keep our national identity alive in this area as well. We must prevent this Europe from moving towards a made in Europe by eliminating our Made in Italy. Indeed, for us as Brothers of Italy we should go further and replace the words "made in Italy" with the words "Italian product" to strengthen even more our uniqueness. However, Brothers of Italy are sure that at last the political line of the new Europe after 26 May will go in this direction. Entering into the matter, allow me to spend a few minutes on the structure of the provision that sees, as usual, the bad habit of this Government to mix completely different and not homogeneous elements in the same decree-law, also distancing itself from the invitation of the presidency of the Senate to try to make the acts as homogeneous as possible. I remember the so-called decree-law Genoa, where the problems of that city were dealt with only in part and then the discussion turned on the pardon for Ischia and on the sludges deriving from the purification to be used in agriculture. I refer, Mr President, to Article 12, which deals with urgent measures in favour of the former Stoppani chemical plant and the completion of its reclamation. The measure in its parts goes from disciplinary the tasks of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, to defining the powers of the prefect of Genoa, to the definition of an actuator subject, to the increase of personnel and resources to the prefecture for the fulfilment of his action; in summary, tries to provide the necessary tools to close a painful environmental and health injury to the city of Genoa. Nothing to the contrary, indeed we are perfectly in agreement with the substance, but I wonder what this is all about with the re-launching of agricultural holdings. I wonder with what awareness the 9th Commission has been able to examine this article (and it has not been examined). Perhaps this issue deserved a different and more in-depth evaluation and certainly a specific bill. I repeat that we are in favour of reclamation and everything that allows it to be done well and quickly, but we do not like this method. One of the main points facing the decree-law in question is the crisis in the sector relating to the production of sheep's milk. The demonstrations of the Sardinian pastors and their extreme gesture of protest have for days filled the news reports of newspapers and television screens. This is an intervention which, on the one hand, provides for the allocation of funds for the improvement of milk and, on the other hand, a contribution as a reimbursement of the costs incurred for interest on bank loans contracted by 31 December 2018. I wonder - and I ask you - why we have not included in these parameters also those companies that have borrowed until now, until the entry into force of the measure under discussion. Also interesting are the rules on the monitoring of production, both milk and dairy. I would like to focus on the fact that there is no further examination of compliance with the rules governing the production of products with the PGI, PDO and so on. More controls and penalties are needed for those who produce and market protected products without complying with the rules. It is a necessary act, not only to safeguard honest producers and transformers, but also to strike those who harm and thus harm the image of our quality products. We can't afford that. Again to remain in the milk sector, Article 4, in fact, raises the long-standing question of milk quota fines. In particular, it suspends and postpones the enforcement. It is right that measures should be taken for those who have failed to comply with the rules. But I also wonder what we should do to prevent a large number of companies from being put in a position to close because of the co-payment of these sanctions, thus making the already critical situation of the sector worse. We hope that it will be a postponement that can then put an end to this affair, which over the years has been handled badly politically and, above all, left on the shoulders of the companies that have suffered from all this. With regard to the issue of frosts, the resources made available by the National Solidarity Fund are certainly important and necessary for a region like Puglia, where more than 50% of the entire national olive oil production is concentrated. But we cannot forget the other regions, where atmospheric events have caused considerable damage to agricultural production. Moreover, we keep in mind the responsibilities of Puglia and those who administer this Region, which has not been able to manage, not only this emergency, but also that of xylella, which has been destroying the Salento plants for years now. Today we have managed to find drastic solutions, but necessary for the destruction of infected plants. Whoever had to act, and had the tools to do it, did not. The greatest culprit of what could have been a circumscribed crisis, but which is now becoming a national emergency, is the Puglia region. Now there is a substantial amount of money to regenerate the olive sector of Puglia, but we hope that the maximum attention will be paid to the distribution of these resources and to the control of the actual regeneration of the Apulian productive tissue. We would not want to find ourselves, in a few years, investing so much resources and not even having a new olive tree. One thing we have appreciated, at last, is that ISMEA has officially determined the average production costs. Producers will be more protected than those who could impose low purchase prices and below production costs, thus triggering a mechanism of protection against unfair commercial practices, thus safeguarding the entire supply chain. The promotion and communication campaigns, which, in our opinion, must go in two directions, are good. The first in the promotion of products and the other in the education of consumers for a healthy and higher quality food. Finally, we can express a greater satisfaction with the changes to the sanctions in the field of fisheries resulting from the adoption of the amendments of the Brothers of Italy during the debate in the Commission in the House. I am referring to amendments arising from a specific draft law tabled by our party in the last parliamentary term, with the aim of reducing the sanctioning pressure on our fishermen who often, even for the sake of objectivity of the type of fishing, incurred excessive sanctions. On fishing, however, we would have liked more courage. More determination is needed to re-launch a sector with enormous potential. Today in Italy, on every 100 kilos of fish, only twenty are the result of the work of our fishermen. We still have to work on this: new rules, investments and benefits for companies. Finally, I would like to point out that despite the rejection of the entire package of amendments proposed by Brothers of Italy, through the work in the Commission, our Group has managed at least to obtain commitments, thanks to the conversion of four of our amendments to as many agendas, all accepted by the Government; commitments which we hope the Government will actually and quickly follow up, giving operators in a sector in great suffering a concrete signal of intervention through targeted measures, necessary and no longer postponed. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, as in all things, we can do more and better. Brothers of Italy, with his amendments, tried to do more and better. We are not satisfied, but this is certainly a step forward. However, let us not waste any more time. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u42	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the State Technical Institute for Industry and Industry, Guglielmo Marconi, Verona, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u43	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this decree, which also concerns agropastoral realities, in addition to the contents, there are also aspects concerning the state of agitation of the pastors. I concentrate, as the only Sardinian representative of Forza Italia, on the development of some of these issues concerning the world of pastoral care. The protest, which continues, stems from content considered absolutely insufficient by the pastors. Many of them, because of previous protests, have been sent back to trial and, therefore, still live in anguish. Pastoral care - I would like to remind you - is one of the main resources for the economy and occupation of Sardinia. We are talking about more than 15,000 farms and about 40,000 employees, with farms that count just under half of all national sheep and that generate an economy that produces two thirds of the sheep milk produced in Italy. Mr President, these people are proud of their work and product, even if they turn into a brand that is not Sardinian, because it bears the name of Roman pecorino (produced, in fact, 97% with Sardinian milk). The protest stems from strange auction mechanisms, which have lowered the price of milk from 85 to 60 cents today. This was the main fact that triggered the protest of the pastors. Moreover, it is an incomprehensible price value, given that sheep's milk is paid 96 cents in France and 93 cents in Spain. The price of milk before government intervention, equal to 60 cents, does not even cover production costs. In fact, the fixed costs are many: for the maintenance of livestock, as well as for the coverage of other costs and the remuneration of the work of the many workers in the sector. Moreover, the difficulty of the shepherds' work lies in the uncertainty of the production, also linked to the health of the sheep (I remember the problem of blue tongue in Sardinia) and to the drought periods, alternated with other natural disasters, which reduce the pasture and force the shepherds to integrate the feeding of the sheep with other fodder, which obviously have an additional cost, and so on. Despite their dedication to their activities, the Sardinian shepherds saw the dignity of their work trampled on by an incomprehensible milk price policy. Without a serious and forward planning of the supply chain, a serious traceability of the product, a policy of adequate remuneration and respect for their work (which must be paid in a fair way and not on the basis of speculations of the Italian market), shepherds certainly cannot go on. We must respect their dignity and sacrifice. Speculation, as a result of downward auctions, has brought the price of milk not only to an unsustainable level, but - let me say this - humiliating for the hard work of the Sardinian shepherds. Now new mobilizations are announced by the shepherds who rightly want to say theirs in the negotiations on the milk dispute. There is also the problem of the judicial events of those who have so far manifested and thrown milk into the streets. Many of them are obliged to stay. In conclusion, the 74 cents, as a result of the negotiation, are still too low a price and, therefore, new protests must be awaited. The price of milk cannot be left to the market alone, but it is also necessary for the shepherds to intervene in those compensation mechanisms used for other agricultural products, also by negotiating with the European Union (who must start these negotiations is not only Italy, but many other member countries). The shepherds will go down the street again and protest until politics succeeds in giving them back the dignity that deserves the hard and precious work they do. I am sure that the Sardinian policy will take its steps, but it is the national government and the new representatives of the European Union who will have to move, in their own seats, intervening on the common agricultural policy (CAP). This is what we expect, not only during the examination of the amendments tabled to the measure (although we know that they will not be accepted), but also in the further course of our policy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u45	Mr President, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited ten long months, three hundred days of catwalks, announcements of upcoming and post solutions to get to vote today on an empty decree-law on the agricultural emergency. Let's remember that the decree was hastily conceived - it is done to say - as an idea to put a patch and make the usual tweet in response to the massive protest of the Apulian olive growers, to which the opportunity of riding the protest of the Sardinian shepherds in a land crossed by the electoral passage for the regional. We all know that in the electoral campaigns League and Movimento 5 Stars are unbeatable because they are masters of easy promises, artists of political reclamations and unbeatable genres of propaganda. We are talking about this: today, as every time, the words in the wind do not turn into concreteness. To be concrete, in fact, it would be necessary to renounce the bulimic obsession with TV fiction and screenplay to sit and think, study and deepen together with the technicians in the Ministries to find the most correct answers to the dramatic problems. There is, however, the social performance anxiety to be managed even when gravity is the figure of what happens: be they misfortunes like that of the Morandi bridge in Genoa or economic crises that mow productive tissues, as in the case of bacteriosis from xylella in Puglia. This is proof of the delay in the publication of the decree in the Official Journal, just as it happens - you may remember - for the Morandi bridge. So much so, for those who are in the government, once the voracity of the promised announcement has been paid, the rest, like the publication or examination in the two branches of Parliament, becomes an annoying and little productive waste of time, because the greed from consensus in the meantime has been appeased. We're finally here today. I leave aside the theme of the Sardinian pastors not because I didn't want to talk about that, but because they are already ready for a new state of agitation, precisely because they are dissatisfied with the decree-law because it doesn't solve anything. I would like to dwell for a moment on the olive sector instead, which would have deserved much more by a government that has presented itself as a panacea of all misfortunes, ensuring that it already has the most appropriate response to all problems. I still remember - it is remembered by all Apulians - the images of Minister Centinario, who is not here today in the Chamber, who announced a plan in July 2018 by that summer. Instead, here we are commenting on yet another missed opportunity. That is what this decree-law is, a provision that betrays a worrying fact and, that is, that this Government still seems to have not understood the scope and consequences that can determine the scourge of xylella to Puglia and the whole country. Today, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) reiterates this once again. Countless questions remain unanswered. I put a few of them: has a study been carried out on the repercussions of expiants without programming in relation to hydrogeological risk, as laid down in Article 18- bis paragraph 1? Why are sanctions set up up to 30,000 euros for owners who do not uproot olive trees and nothing is provided for host plants in public areas? An example are the oleanders circling roads and highways. Maybe you think that xylella only fights with the olive war on private soil? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I'm gonna cut the red tape. I quote only this: the decree provides that for seven years the olive trees located in the infected area can be eradicated, after communication to the Region. The same provisions also provide for the prohibition of killing beyond the number of five trees every two years and the necessity that the Chamber of Commerce even authorizes the killing in case of confirmed physiological death. Instead of simplifying the process, we even expect the authorization to start from the Chambers of Commerce. Another question: the decree, amending the fiscal law 2019, among the purposes for contributions to municipalities for 2019 adds the interventions aimed at the containment of the diffusion of xylella provided by the decree of MIPAAF of 13 February 2018, which provides that contributions are allocated to municipalities for the safety of schools, roads, public buildings and municipal assets in the total limit of 400 million euros. By 15 January 2019, the Ministry of the Interior should have communicated to each municipality the amount of the contribution due. Just so you know, I'm addressing the Undersecretary: where are we? Are there official channels to get an answer or do you suggest me to switch with the smartphone hoping to win a phone call with the sovereignist Salvini to get a possible answer? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, a real masterpiece: Article 8-c. Indemnities and reliefs have been promised to agricultural holdings for the loss of incomes in recent years. It is expected that an extraordinary plan will be adopted for the regeneration of the olive sector of Salento in infected areas. The financial envelope amounts to EUR 150 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021. Paragraph 3 specifies that for the costs foreseen for the implementation of this plan, corresponding reduction of available resources for the years 2020 and 2021 on the Development and Cohesion Fund shall be made. We are talking about a fund for the financing of strategic, infrastructural or intangible projects, having the nature of large projects or investments articulated in individual functionally related interventions. Can you tell me that all this "acquiesce" with the refreshments and compensations to farmers penalized by xylella? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Truly, the person who wrote the decree-law seems to be what psychology calls a pathological liar: he indores reality, does not feel remorse, feels smarter and smarter than others, tells the facts in a compelling way, changes the version of the facts according to the convenience, believes his own lies and escapes responsibility. This is why this measure is a missed opportunity, yet another missed opportunity, because with its approval the possibility of giving life to an entire territory, an agrosystem, a tourist-rural landscape, entire production and processing and packaging sectors disappears. Any contribution will be allocated only to farms with VAT numbers and registered in the Chamber of Commerce, forgetting the simple owners of small handkerchiefs of land that constitute the vast majority of the Salento peninsula, the one now totally infected. Therefore, this Government assumes the arbitrariness to decide who can be a farmer and who cannot, who has the possibility to replant and who cannot, who can live and who must die. Not to mention the risk of derailing the resources of Puglia on national measures (in this - alas - I would have expected some attention also from my Region): we speak of 52 out of 60 million euros that the Region Puglia allocates for activities on the entire national territory, as can be seen from the Plan of intervention for the relaunch of the sector. The decree-law says that and I find it absurd. Apulia's resources serve national measures. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have tried to put in place a decree which has already begun from the House, indicating that it cannot be amended for any reason. We consider it a missed opportunity. I already know that Salvini and Centinario will come to Puglia to bring this result, but I advise them not to continue to make propaganda, because there is the skin of the Apulians. I take advantage, concluding, having glimpsed for a moment the Undersecretary Crimes, to say that as on xylella, so on Radio Radicale, you continue to make unbearable statements. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Rampi exhibits a sign bearing the inscription "Savate Radio Radicale"]] It means that besides science, not even in the field of freedom and democracy...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u46	Senator Rampi, please put that sign away. Don't let him take it off.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u47	STEFANO (PD). ...are able to live up to the role to which you have been called. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u48	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are considering, in my opinion, could easily be called 'Answers' or 'Answers' in the field of agriculture. To those who asked for the presence of the minister Centinario, I reply that the minister, as always, is to work for his agricultural section, here very well represented by the undersecretary Fish. I have also noticed an inconsistency in the speeches of the Democratic Party; I am very curious to see how they will be expressed in the explanations of vote. For a long time the category of farmers and farmers, an economic and social fabric fundamental to our country, had been waiting for answers. It is precisely in this field that the Minister Gian Marco Centinario has for months, a measure after measure, is concerned with giving concrete, effective and common sense answers to issues of fundamental importance, such as those of the agricultural sector, to us, with him, as a majority, and in the Committee on Agriculture here in the Senate. The measure is of particular importance because it offers answers to two regions unfortunately torn by great problems, such as those of xylella, frosts in Puglia, the sheep and goat sector in Sardinia and, more marginally, but in a similar way also the question of the former Stoppani plant, located in the Municipality of Cogoleto, in my Liguria, a wound for too long open that thanks to the decree will finally see its safety. Specifically, Decree-Law No. 27 gives answers that in some cases the regional governments have unfortunately not been able to give. I am referring in particular to that relating to the xylella emergency, which has led to the ruin of the enormous olive heritage of the Puglia Region. There is no doubt, Mr President, that Puglia has a very important history in the national olive grove. Unfortunately, too long has been expected and thousands of plants are now injured and infected. A phenomenon that has certainly caused a weakening of the territory both from the economic point of view and of the environmental heritage. The competent Ministry has not only intervened through measures of an economic nature, but has wanted to properly intervene in a significant way also from the normative point of view, allowing in this way to stem, indeed stop, the phytopathy, thus avoiding a further proliferation. On the merits of Liguria, it is known that in the export market of aromatic plants, think of Albenga and Sanremo in particular, the norms regarding the absence of this phytopathy are fundamental. Without this timely intervention, the risk of weakening our companies would have been very high, so it is clear, Mr President, in this difficult economic recovery the need to prevent this harmful event at all costs. 300 million euros are made available to share this sector, which is fundamental for the now traditional leading role that our producers have in the international scene, in which Puglia is one of the main actors. Much has been said, read or seen on the emergency instead of the sheep and goat sector in Sardinia, where the unstoppable commitment put on the field by the minister Centinario and by the same minister Salvini, has finally given its fruits. On 8 March, the agreement was reached on the price of milk between shepherds and processors, equal to 74 cents, with the commitment of a match in November 2019. There is no doubt that progress has been made towards the right direction. In this area there is a clear inconsistency between milk producers and processors. In addition, €14 million has been allocated to the most deprived national fund for the purchase of PDO cheese, made from sheep's milk, in order to encourage the consumption of cheese stocks and thus lower the supply, raising the price and also giving a very high quality product to economically disadvantaged people. It is therefore important, if not fundamental, for our cheese that buying a PDO or PGI product is a guarantee for the end user, who must be sure that the product purchased by him is essential its territoriality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Floridia]] That extra cost, that added value, which the consumer willingly pays for a very high quality product, is right for those who produce the first link in the supply chain. It is therefore right that I should go to our farmers. EUR 10 million was made available to support supply chain and district contracts for promotion, research and structural interventions. Sardinia is a wonderful and extraordinary land; it is impossible not to fall in love with its beauty. It is a land to which I am particularly attached and affectionate also for sentimental reasons, and on this matter the Region cannot and will not be able to withdraw by a single millimeter compared to the quality of its products. The challenge that the minister Centinario launched a few months ago combining under his Ministry of Agriculture and Tourism must be collected without delay by all the governors of the Region: it is too important the agro-food and tourism heritage of our country not to combine them with each other. On the subject of xylella and sheep and goat, those who had regional responsibility certainly did not put everything in their competence to solve the problem, and those who preceded us to the government certainly did not stimulate the governors with common sense choices that this measure contains instead. We are sure that the new president of the Christian Solinas Region will take charge of this commitment, to protect its people and its breeders, in close collaboration with the minister Centinario. Italian agriculture is a sector that we consider decisive for the development of the country and, although having had to endure, especially in the last year, emergencies of an absolute gravity, largely due to unexpected disasters, the signs of its development are important, such as that of the more than 55,000 farms led by under thirty-five. With this in mind, Italy is at the summit of the countries of the European Union. As far as Europe is concerned, there will be an important democratic meeting in a few days' time, namely the elections for the renewal of the European Parliament. We do not like this Europe and it weakens peoples and territories with its choices. There is no doubt that a democratic and common sense revolution is needed, which will at last enhance the peculiarities of its Member States, but will not favour some of them by affecting them most. This is the moment when our farmers, our farmers, our fishermen, our beaches and, more generally, our businesses and workers in the agricultural and tourism sector raise their voices, helping to strengthen the choices of this Ministry, which are aimed at their protection and development. I conclude with the hope that we will continue with this type of approach in addressing emergencies, as in this case, but also the simple needs of all the economic sectors of our country, with the same determination and the same timeliness demonstrated with this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u50	Senator Battistoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it is worth recalling the importance of our agriculture, which corresponds to 13.5% of GDP; not only that, we also have 61 billion agri-food value. In view of this importance, it is with some regret that I am speaking today, because for the umpteenth time we have failed to make our contribution to amending a measure that could be much more useful for this important sector. With colleagues from Forza Italia we have worked on many amendments and we have done a precise job in the Commission. We have illustrated them and I must say that, thanks to President Vallardi's mediation, some of them have also been accepted as an agenda, but I hope that the agenda will not end dead letter as unfortunately very often has happened. The intention of the provision could be commendable, but haste, as often happens, is not a good counselor. In recent months we have witnessed many demonstrations in Puglia, under the Ministry and in various squares of Italy with milk poured on the road, which really made us very sorry and very much reflect. Following these demonstrations, it was intended to issue a decree-law with indications that could also be right in general form, but that specifically do not lead to the solution of problems. Let's talk about xylella and I am pleased that colleagues from the Movimento 5 Star have also noticed that xylella is a real problem, not to be underestimated. Unfortunately, both the delays of the Puglia Region and the denial of the existence of this disease have contributed to the disastrous loss of olive groves in Puglia. We hope that with the measures prepared by this decree the damage can be reduced to a minimum. We are also talking about the sheep's milk sector. In my opinion, it is not enough to make a contribution to the price, but the gap between the producer and the transformer must be reduced more and more, because if we do not work together with a reform of the structural system, we will go a short distance. We are also puzzled by this pseudo-another sanatorium on milk quotas, which I think is a bit inappropriate, given that, in fact, it mortifies those who have so far made up their minds, precisely when Italy is discussing infringement proceedings in Europe. I also hoped that with this measure we would really put our hands on other emergencies that we, as the Forza Italia Group, have repeatedly urged the Minister in all the locations. I am referring - and I am pleased with Mr Bruzzone's intervention in this matter - to the problems of wildlife, for which we have turned an amendment into an agenda which was then accepted by President Vallardi, but which must lead to subsequent legislative measures. In fact, the problem of wildlife, unfortunately, for some time now does not only concern farmers and our crops but has also become a public safety problem. In fact, by now, the outskirts of our cities see the constant presence of these animals. A few months ago, unfortunately, there was also an accident because some animals even found themselves crossing the highway. We expected, therefore, something more concrete about this situation. The other big problem that unfortunately we still cannot understand and that has become a constant in the agricultural sector is that of climate change. We have come from a terrible year: hailstorms, frosts, floods that have caused landslides. Just look, without going too far back, a week ago. Hail has caused enormous damage to asparagus, kiwis and vegetables and I believe it has also irreparablely compromised hazelnuts and chestnuts, which represent a large part of our economy. In addition, another aspect which I do not think has been dealt with is the recovery of mills. In fact, going to cut the sick plants to hit the xylella, all the mills that would be used to grind olives and produce oil will remain unused during this period. This issue has not been discussed, there has been no provision for conversion funds or projects to determine what to do in the meantime. This is a great loss of agricultural value for our territory, because those who deal with agriculture know well that the mill is seen as a mini industrial district, a reference point for our farmers, also to convey information. Another issue that I think deserved a different treatment is the so-called blue tongue. Unfortunately there are new outbreaks, recently discovered also in Sicily, in Lombardy and Veneto and in my opinion this problem should also be addressed in a definitive and concrete way. I believe that agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, is neither yellow, nor green, nor red, nor blue. Agriculture is the producer's, the farmer's and the consumer's, so we are in order to make a real contribution to the creation of a national agricultural model. I think this nation finally deserves it and needs it. Let us all work very hard together, because it is a really important sector, which must be protected and above all supported. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for years, a fearsome quarantine bacteria has arrived in Puglia that has hit the olive trees. It is the annoying xylella, subspecies pauca, strain Codiro, which can kill even healthy plants and treated with good agricultural practices. The bacterium is transmitted by several cycadelidae. The most important is philaenus spumarius (called medium spitachin), an insect that nourishes of the xylematic lymph, acquiring the bacterial cells from the infected plants and inoculating them in the healthy ones. At the moment, the entire Salento area is infected, with a northern belt affected by scattered outbreaks (containment zone) and another external area of observation (bearing zone). The olive trees, symbol of Puglia, that characterize the superb landscape, the ancient culture, the consolidated olive growing, are succumbing. There are centuries-old olive trees that have resisted climate change, severe diseases and even fire, but not to xylella, a malevolent gift of a European system of bankrupt plant quarantine. A dramatic excatombe, in rapid expansion, for serious inertias and political faults of the governments that preceded us and of the Puglia Region. Twenty-two million infected olive trees or at a very high risk of infection; of these, four million have completely lost their production capacity. An upset landscape, an economy on its knees. Not two percent. In the entire Province of Lecce, 99 percent of the cultivars Ogliarola and Cellina di Nardò are affected by xylella. Once xylella was acclaimed in 2013, due to various inefficiencies, in 2015 the decision of the European Commission came, with subsequent postponement and referral to the European Court of Justice last June. This Decision provides for measures for the prevention, control and containment of the bacterium, through monitoring and eradication. Unexpected measures. Thus, xylella advances up Puglia with a speed of two kilometers per month. After years of inertia and confusion, the House's Agriculture Committee recently conducted a cognitive survey. The final report states that a communication plan is needed; continuous monitoring; a plan to combat vectors; good agronomic practices; timely interventions to eradicate and remove infected plants, in order to eliminate the vector's sources of injection in containment and bearing areas; replantation and grafting of bacteria-resistant varieties, to date the only possibility to save the Plain of monumental olive trees, a heritage that represents the history and essence of our Region of Puglia. This is what science has mainly indicated and our Government has responsibly entrusted itself to science. After the little or nothing of the past, this government has already allocated 100 million euros for the emergency, then this decree-law was issued, duly amended to the House, listening to olive growers and stakeholders. Listening aimed at the collective good is the ace in the sleeve of the Government of change. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For the fight against the bacterium there are bureaucratic simplifications, obligations for the eradication of infected plants in containment and buffer zones, targeted derogations for the protection of monumental or historical olive trees and sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules to protect the environment, agriculture and landscape. It's not a license to poison the environment. It becomes mandatory to weed during the period of development and hatching of spitacchina eggs and to treat olive trees twice a year during the period of flight of adults (what is already normally done in olive growing), among other things with the same pesticides that are used several times in the city to fight flies and mosquitoes. It's not a vandalist assault. It will be necessary to eradicate some thousands of olive trees in the containment area and a few hundred olive trees in the crucial buffer zone, from where the infection starts and advances. It is so painful, but necessary, because the pitiful doctor makes the verminous wound. However, containing does not mean defeating, but we have a duty to slow down the speedy ride of the xylella. Meanwhile science is not firm and could resolve the phytopathy before Puglia olive oil is compromised and, to follow, all Italy. Moreover, for the revival of agriculture in Puglia and the regeneration of olive growing in infected areas, the decree establishes a fund for an extraordinary Plan, with 300 million euros for the two-year period 2020-2021. Within 60 days of entry into force, criteria and arrangements for implementing the measures will be laid down. With the agenda G8.1 (text 2) at my first signature, I offer a contribution for the implementation of the decree-law and the Plan to come, inviting the Government to consider the opportunity to: implement a monitoring and containment program also in infected areas not entirely compromised, today abandoned; promote scientific research to identify indigenous cultivars resistant and to fight against bacteria and vectors; promote good agronomic practices; attribute to the entire olive grove and not only to individual monumental trees a historical and environmental interest, where it shows valuable characters or a hydrogeological function of the slopes, as in the case of terraces where there are centuries-old olive trees: in such cases would carry out surgical eradication of infected olive trees, albeit with the necessary precautions, substantially extending a little paragraph 2 (b) of Article 6 of the European Implementing Decision 789/2015. The agenda also invites the Government to start an intercourse with the European Commission, aimed at remodulating the decisions, with the aim of safeguarding the infected monumental olive trees present in the containment and bearing areas, through reinnesti and rigorous physical isolations, technically possible, without prejudice to the respect of the additional measures of plant health emergency. The Government of Change today lays the foundations for a revival of olive growing and agriculture in Puglia, after decades of abandonment by all governments of at least the last thirty or forty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're so late! Some have complained about the delay of ten or eleven months: here there are delays of decades. As for the phylossera of the late nineteenth century vine, it is necessary to transform the xylella tragedy into a great opportunity for development. We will do so: if we say so, we will do so and we have proved it amply. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u54	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u55	Mr President, I am not an expert on agriculture and I will therefore make some political comments on something that struck me in listening to this debate. Agriculture is an extraordinary sector: it is not only, although it would already be sufficient, an activity on which our health depends, that of our families and our children, and it is not only an extraordinarily effective form of soil protection. It is also a huge economic resource: the pillar of the economy, our GDP and our exports. Can we say that the government is giving our agriculture the attention it needs? I don't think so. Look, ladies and gentlemen, although the decree-law speaks in its title of relaunching the agricultural sectors, I think this is a soulless text; a measure that shows no strategy and I believe that these absences should not be surprised. Colleagues, today in Italy the Ministry of Agricultural Policies has actually become the Ministry of Tourism. I have sympathy - and I think I can also say friendship - with Minister Centinario, but I know his interests, which are not in agriculture but in tourism. Well, how can we think of dealing with such a serious issue as agriculture in a Ministry that, while being born to deal exclusively with that sector, now has a Minister who has an interest in a completely different subject? Here there is a form that, politically, I want to call a lot of agriculture and tourism, a sign of a very very unserious and very widespread method that this Government is using and not only in this area. This morning I read something similar in the field of lottery, in an important newspaper, signed by a journalist of great importance and of absolute reliability. I have read some news that has been circulating in Parliament for a few weeks, even here in the Senate, that the government seems to have asked by its own act the four vice directors of our secret services to resign to be replaced. Here, it is a very different case - but, if you will allow me, even more serious - of lottification, and, just as the lottification of the Ministry of Agriculture affects our economy, this other lottification has a more serious impact on our security. What foreign secret service, in fact, can be more trusted of Italian services punctuated by politics? I think we're not going very far with this method. Somehow these measures are also related to the decision to subtract resources from Radical Radio, thus affecting our democracy and freedom of speech. We cannot complain about the explosion of the spread: it is a natural consequence of the acts of a government in which agriculture and tourism are scattered, of a government that plunders the secret services, of a government that takes money away from a channel that has been making democracy for some decades. We can't really complain if the spread explodes. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT,UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u56	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u57	Mr President, I will use these minutes, which give me the opportunity to reply to this decree-law, to point out that from the certainly constructive debate I understood that this measure was necessary and urgent. I believe that the decree-law will serve to intervene urgently on issues that were improbable and absolutely essential; we have understood that. And I want to answer both Senator Stefano and Senator Damiani: when it is said that we arrived late, as far as xylella is concerned, it is good to remember - not I say it but the Accademia dei Lincei - that xylella arrived in Salento in 2008-2009. Since 2008 and 2009 it has been exactly 11 years and I believe that before this Government, which has intervened in only eight months of work, perhaps there have been eight to nine years of futility from previous governments, probably even on the plate of the Democratic Party - dear Senator Stefano, I say it with affection - in which one could intervene, so it would not have gone from the 100 to 200 sick olive trees to the 20 million olive trees that must be absolutely removed today. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I would also like to address Senator Biti, who gives me the opportunity to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who have worked on this decree-law in a constructive manner. Indeed, perhaps up to now there has not been a vision of the agriculture sector, but I know of the great work that has been done by the Minister Centinario, by the Undersecretary Manzato and by the Undersecretary Pesce, who is here and whom I thank, for which by the end of summer - certainly also in Parliament - we will be presented with the vision of the agricultural sector for the next twenty years, that vision that up to now there has not been, but that absolutely serves, supply chain by chain. We are aware of this and we need a few more months of work and this vision will come as soon as possible. That is what Mr Centinario said, that someone is accusing us today of not being here in this House. I remember that Minister Centinario is in China to bring home results, just as he did exactly a month ago, when he signed some contracts with the Chinese Government, not only for the orange sector - which until recently we could not export to China - but also for the pig sector. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We know very well how the Chinese market can shift the world balance. In China there are 1.5 billion inhabitants: you can imagine what agreements with this country can mean for Made in Italy and for all our exports. Someone's accusing us that we're not doing anything. However, I believe that the recent labelling decree can certainly be the cornerstone and starting point for the rebirth of our agriculture. This government has done so: most likely those who were there before us never thought about it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u58	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u59	Mr President, I have listened to the speeches made by my fellow Members on this very important measure, which is an occasion for debate in the Senate House on the subject of agriculture. As I explained earlier, the real emergency in the agricultural sector is the under-cost sale of agricultural raw materials and the lack of transparency in our market. The real emergency is the lack of planning and import controls. The real emergency is the lack of contrast to concentrations and speculation. The real emergency is not to admit that treatment can replace the eradication of millenarian olive trees. The Minister has been with us in Puglia, where we have visited the experimental camps and we have seen that good agricultural practices can remedy this problem, which over the years has been so cleverly confused and smeared with truths that they do not coincide with scientific ones. And it certainly cannot be the 18th legislature that extinguishes the millennial history of the olive groves that we have in the Mezzogiorno. The real emergency is therefore the absence of a serious debate on the strategic role that the agricultural and environmental link plays in the country, with all the ecosystem services that agriculture offers. All this would require not only a debate confined in a morning, but a real national agricultural conference, which I hope the Government wants to promote as soon as possible, so that the role of agriculture in Italy does not continue to be a role of Cinderella.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u60	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank the 9th Commission and the senators for the debate we have had and for the contributions that have been made. I would like to stress here that the decree-law, by its nature, deals with urgent issues, but in this case, in doing so, we have also included some structural measures to avoid returning to crisis situations, as in the case of monitoring dairy production. Today I would like to mention the Istat data that were distributed yesterday, in which it is evident that in 2018 the agro-food industry showed a significant recovery, except for the olive growing and the citrus sector, on which the decree-law focused, demonstrating the fact that we had an absolutely correct target in our action. In particular, for olive growing, the Plan for the olive regeneration of Puglia for the first time provides substantial financial resources to aim for the reconstruction of the productive heritage, to realize a series of investments for our olive cultivation and also for the cultural heritage it represents. I would like to conclude by pointing out that the measure under consideration clearly represents a part of a complex system of actions to promote agri-food from a supply chain perspective, to counter the increasingly strong effects of climate change and to meet an ever-increasing environmental, social and economic sustainability. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u62	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u63	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. Instead, the opinion was in favour of the G1.1 agenda and opposed to the G1.2 agenda. 13.02 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.2 tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u66	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u67	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u68	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, until the words 'for the year 2020'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.4. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators, identical to amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Leonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u69	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u70	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators, up to the words "any species." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.3 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Leonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Biti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendments 3.10 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators, and 3.11, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u72	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u74	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u77	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, as my fellow Members have already said, there are so many things missing in this measure. There is insufficient resources to address all the issues. There are no measures covering territories that have been equally damaged by frost. There are no measures on other sectors in crisis that have not been included in this measure. Then there is this article, Article 4, which I do not hesitate to define as something scandalous. It is not that we did not expect this measure, which was in the air. In the livestock sector it was known that a measure would be introduced, in some measure, with the precise task of blocking the enforceability of the procedures with regard to those who had not agreed to indemnify and pay the fines relating to milk quotas. We expected this; it was just a matter of figuring out where this measure would be included and we found it in Article 4 of the measure under consideration. From a certain point of view, it would be said that the measure certifies that the killer always returns to the scene of the crime, because the interweavings between the activity of the League and the issue of milk quotas have cyclically repeated within the legislative framework of this country. From this point of view, therefore, nothing new under the sun. This is a measure which, with the excuse of improving the implementation procedures, effectively suspends them until mid-July and, in the meantime, transfers the responsibility for the recovery of milk quota fines from Agea (who had it until now) to the Revenue Agency, thus to the ordinary system of collection of what is owed to the State. In this way, a decree will be issued with instructions on how this will take place and, in fact, the result will be obtained, creating the fragmentation of a decree and procedures that will be communicated to those who will be subject to it, to recreate the space for recourse to the TAR and opposition to procedures. So, we'll talk about it in a few years, after the rulings of the TAR, the Council of State and so on. In fact, what is happening is the repetition of what happened in 2009 with Law No. 33, which converted the decree-law promoted by the then Minister Zaia, when the execution was blocked, which was starting in all the Regions of Northern Italy, and everything was transferred to Agea, with the commitment to redefine the procedures. With the Berlusconi Government and Minister of Agriculture Zaia, those procedures were never specified, so much so that the legislature ended without the rules being enacted, norms that will then issue, with the Law 24 December 2012, n. 228, the Monti Government, and will find the procedures for definitive implementation in November 2013, i.e. in the past legislature. That path allowed us to block all the proceedings, and then let them start again after the appeals. From my point of view, this issue cries out revenge and is shameful because it is completely instrumental. Already after the measure adopted in November 2013, Agea adopted a convention with the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard, which in fact handled the collection. Therefore, the ownership of the procedure simply passes, but the procedure remains the same as before, with the result that no improvement is achieved in terms of practical results. The dramatic thing is that the Court of Auditors has certified the cost incurred by Italy for this game of milk quotas, so a party has engaged with some producers (remember that it is about 500 producers out of the 35,000 totals of the country) to never make them pay in exchange for their consent. Well, this game cost Italy 4.5 billion euros, as certified at the end of 2012 by the Court of Auditors. In addition - and this is always the case with the Court of Auditors - we are about to make a further slaughter of EUR 1.3 billion against the State. If this is the Government of Change, we are on the right track. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u78	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Biti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4.0.1, identical to amendment 4.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senators Mirabelli and Stefano, identical to amendment 4.0.2, tabled by Senator De Siano and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.0.100, tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 4-a, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u79	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u80	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u81	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4- bis.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Angelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4- bis.2, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-a.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a.1 tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u82	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u83	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u84	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators, identical to Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1. I am in favour of the G6.6 agenda and against the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u86	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's amendment. Instead, I am in favour of the G6.1, G6.2, G6.4, G6.6 and G6.8, and against the remaining G6.3 and G6.5 and G6.9 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u87	Let us move on to Amendment 6.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u90	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, we have tabled a number of agendas which have received a favourable opinion in the Commission, and now we have an opinion against them. That is why I ask the rapporteur to reconsider the opinion. Among other things, they are agendas that deal with a very serious issue: we have highlighted the fact that the measure intervened on the frosts of Puglia, but left uncovered the frosts of all the other regions. We have tabled amendments which went in this direction and have been rejected. We then put forward agendas asking that at least this be taken into account in the perspective. I therefore ask the rapporteur to review his position, which is little, so that at least we can make sure that it remains a positive sign that the emergency exists. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u93	Mr Vallardi, rapporteur. Mr President, in the rush there has been a overlap in the opinions. I repeat: I am in favour of the G6.1 and G6.2 agendas. On the G6.3 agenda, I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u94	With regard to agenda G6.3 both you and the Government had expressed an opinion against it. Are you in favour now? Did you change your opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u95	I would ask the Presidency for a minute's suspension to check this agenda. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u96	I don't understand anything anymore, please. A moment of patience for everyone. I need to understand these opinions. The rapporteur asked to speak in order to propose a rewording. On the agenda, Mr G6.3 an opinion had been delivered against both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. You, Senator Vallardi, what are you saying now?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u97	Mr President, I would ask you, if possible, to speak thirty seconds with the representative of the Government to see if we can find a point of convergence in order to be able to accept this agenda. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u98	Please, colleagues, I don't understand! I have the agenda set aside G6.3. On the agenda, Mr G6.4 there is a favourable opinion from the Government and against the rapporteur. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u99	No, Mr President, my opinion on the G6.4 agenda is also in favour. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u100	On the agenda, Mr G6.5 and Mr G6.7 the opinions were in line and opposed, while on the agenda, Mr G6.6 the opinions were in line and in favour. On the agenda, Mr G6.8, you had expressed the opposite opinion, while the Government was in favour. Finally, both you and the Government had expressed an opinion against the G6.9 agenda. Is everything like this?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u101	On the agenda, Mr G6.8 I voted in favour, while on the agenda, Mr G6.9 the opinion remains the opposite.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u102	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6.1 and G6.2 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u105	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, it is difficult to understand whether this is a mere technical problem or a political problem (it is not clear at the moment), so much so that the suspension has been requested and you, Mr President, with an act of great generosity, have given the opportunity to put aside an agenda which otherwise, politically, would have caused an accident. So far, we're putting it that way. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] Frankly, the real incident lies in the lack of respect for the fact that this is the only measure, after a year, which deals with agriculture and the Minister is not present after five hours of discussion of the subject. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In any case, since it took you ten minutes to determine what opinion was on the agenda...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u106	Talk to me. I think, because who intervened earlier...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u107	Mr Ferrari (PD). Since I haven't finished, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish the surgery. Mr Ferrari (PD). I also used a very delicate term regarding the fact that yours was a generous act to allow the majority to get out of embarrassment, certainly related to the weight that this theme has [[Comments of Senator Simone Bossi),]] That of an agenda. However, I am also able to be embarrassed on an agenda. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] Having said that, since we have not understood the source of this embarrassment, I would ask you to put to the vote all the agendas of the day at the first signature of the Democratic Party, even those who will have the positive opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u108	I wanted to say that your colleague, Senator Taricco of the Democratic Party, spoke earlier, urging the rapporteur to revise his opinion on the agenda, which the rapporteur has done on time. We cannot say everything and the opposite of everything. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Senator Taricco asked the rapporteur to revise an opinion, the rapporteur spoke by changing his opinion, which he did, and I would say that it should be a pleasure that the agenda was accepted after his second thought. BELLANOVA (PD). It's the law! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, if we're gonna argue, we're gonna do it. I, however, would invite you... FERRARI (PD). I have the right to speak on the order of business. Mr Laus (PD). Let him talk. Mr Ferrari (PD). Give me your word. BELLANOVA (PD). You don't have to argue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She spoke, she said what she had to say. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u111	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that the rules and regulations of the Senate must apply to everyone. I believe Senator Ferrari had the right to speak and also to conclude his speech. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You didn't let him finish the surgery. Look at the footage. He didn't let him finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u112	If I did not allow him to finish the surgery, I apologize, and he can continue the surgery. It wasn't my intention to interrupt him.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u113	Mr Marcucci (PD). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u114	Senator Ferrari, I conclude because I didn't realize you had to talk again. Do it and I'm sorry I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u115	Mr President, we have misunderstood each other. After the debate, there was an explanation of vote by Senator Taricco, who had the right to hold, on agenda 6.1, in which he was asked to clarify between the Government and the rapporteur on the opinion given on the agenda and to change it if the rapporteur had maintained a contrary position. That was the explanation of vote. Since a few minutes have passed during which we have not understood the orientation on all the agendas, among other things very similar, and especially what is the source of the embarrassment of those minutes, I have spoken on the order of business to ask the Presidency to put to the vote, regardless of a positive opinion, all the agendas referred to in Article 6, at the first signature of a member of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u116	All right, this doesn't move anything. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.1, presented by Senator Cratti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u118	I would point out that you have run out of time. Anyway, I'll get you in on it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u119	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, there was a moment of confusion between the Government and the rapporteur, and I would like to stress - as previous speakers have pointed out - that these agendas had been accepted by the Committee on Agriculture. The agenda G6.2 and the others presented by the Democratic Party want to extend urgent and - in my opinion - emergency measures to all those other regions affected, on 25 and 26 March, by a wave of very violent bad weather that has caused considerable damage to the crops of the Veneto Region, so much so that the same Region has already asked for the state of natural disaster. Later, even in recent days, there has been a further wave of exceptional frosts that has completely compromised the agricultural sector, especially with regard to some specialties in the area - I am thinking in particular of Vicentino, Bassanese, but also Veronese and other areas - such as cherry and freshly sprouted corn. We also asked a question about a month ago to ask to review these measures and make the best use of the National Solidarity Fund, in order to avoid compromising an entire vital sector, also from the point of view of GDP, of the Veneto Region. We call for urgent action and not only for emergency and urgent measures to be taken, but also to review as far as possible all that part which does not include structural measures to give an organic vision to a sector that has been waiting for answers for too many years.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u120	I apologize, because I read wrong earlier: the Democratic Party is still twenty minutes away. I was wrong to read, so I'm still sorry. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.2, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G6.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u121	Mr President, I welcome the inclusion of the G6.3 agenda if the proposed reformulation is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u122	What is the reformulation? Mr Vallardi, rapporteur. Mr President, in the first part of the proposal we propose to replace the words: 'to take legislative initiatives to do the following: 'to assess the need for 'to'. In the second commitment of the device we propose to pre-empt the words "to evaluate the opportunity of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u123	Mr President, my opinion is in favour of these amendments being accepted, but I also request that the final point of the proposal be dealt with, as agreed by the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u126	MANCA (PD). Mr President, of course I welcome the proposed reformulations. However, since we have tabled a number of amendments on this subject, I would like to stress that denying the agricultural enterprises of Emilia-Romagna the resources necessary to recognize the damage to the companies themselves caused by frost is not only wasting an opportunity, but also betraying the title of the measure of this Decree-Law, which provides support for agricultural enterprises for economic development and for the relaunch of the sector. It's a serious lack for me. I don't want to think wrong. I would not like us to be faced with a new differentiated regionalism which differentiates interventions in the agricultural sector according to the regions and the governments of the regions themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this because here we lack the resources for Emilia-Romagna and we will see it later with the amendments. Therefore, I welcome, in the embarrassment between the rapporteur and the Government, the reformulation of this agenda, but I point out that we are in the presence of a measure that denies the companies of Emilia-Romagna the possibility of recognizing the damages that the frosts of 2018, between the end of February and the beginning of March, have produced in our regional system. And in this way it also prevents the Region from proceeding to the delimitation of the areas for the relevant verifications. So much for supporting agricultural businesses! It would be better to have a less and an extra act of government: better to block the electoral campaign and to deal with the serious problems of companies and our territories. Let us bear in mind, Mr President, that the same territory was hit just recently by a flood and I have not yet seen representatives of the Government go to the place and assume their responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] This leads me to think that a change of pace is necessary. Propaganda at the end of consent has a limit. The lack of government of the proceedings and the denial of resources to that territory means making significant discrimination, which has nothing to do with the fundamental rules of democracy and support for all businesses in the agricultural sector. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u127	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G6.4 tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G6.6 tabled by Senator Lomuti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u130	Mr President, I call on Senator De Bonis to accept a rewording of the agenda G6.7, adding to the formula "the Government is committed" the words: "to assess the appropriateness of "the future." If this request for reformulation is accepted, the opinion on the G6.7 agenda is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u131	Senator De Bonis, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur? De Bonis (Misto). Yes, ma'am, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u132	I accept the reworded agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u133	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G6.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.8, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the G6.9 agenda, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.100, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to the first part of Amendment 6.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.0.101, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, up to the words: "Article 10". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.0.1. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 6.0.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.0.102, tabled by Senator Missa and other senators, up to the words "Article 10". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.0.103 and 6.0.104 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 6.0.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.105, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.106, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.107, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.108, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.108, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.109, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.109, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 6a of the Decree-Law, which are to be described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u134	I am against Amendment 6a.1 and I am in favour of the adoption of agendas G6-a.1 and G6-a.2. I also support the adoption of the G6-a.3 agenda, when reworded to call for consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u135	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. I welcome on behalf of the Government the agendas for G6- bis.1 and G6- bis.2 and call for the rewording of the agenda for G6- bis.3 as indicated by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u136	Let us move on to amendment 6-a.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6- bis.1, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6- bis.1 and G6- bis.2 will not be put to the vote. Senator Damiani, do you accept the invitation to reword the agenda G6- bis.3? DAMIANI (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6- bis.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u137	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u138	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u139	Let us move on to Amendment 7.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.2 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators, identical to amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators, identical to amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.10 tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendments 7.11, tabled by Senator Biti and other senators, and 7.12, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G7.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u140	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled. I call on the Government to accept the agendas G8.1 (text 2) and G8.7 and I am against all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u141	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u142	Let us move on to Amendment 8.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.1 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. [[Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.2 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, we've voted. You can comment on the next amendment. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, Senator Martelli also pointed out that he wanted to speak. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. However, I would ask Members to make it clear when there is a call for action. CIRINNA' (PD). Puglia, help the President!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u145	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking very simply to ask for the signature to be added to all the first-signed amendments by Senators Buccarella, De Bonis and Ciampollo, if the authors agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u146	The Presidency takes note of this by not objecting to it by the presenters.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u149	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I asked for an explanation of vote on Amendment 8.2, because the Decree-Law provides for a cut of 11 million olive trees. And I'm telling you, they're all healthy olive trees. This is also evident from the intercepts of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Lecce that has evidenced a whole series of anomalies of the studies in particular of the CNR. It would be enough to remember some very reserved e-mails even, in which Saponari - let's talk about 2014 - wrote to Boscia, both CNR researchers: Do I not understand who is writing this standard? Maybe I understand why yesterday Savino asked me for the research plan that we sent to the Region [...] I don't know, it's just an illusion of mine. And again: "Now the Codile has also become the center to report new outbreaks? [...] Do you want to see that thanks to the role played in the investigation, the Codile immediately fill the 360,000 euros? Are we going crazy here? Antonio should be more honest with us. Again, listen to what the researcher Boscia writes to Maria Saponari: We do not trivialize the test: if we use the cortina, we infect it with the annoying, we observe it asymptomatic for one, two, three... 15 years, then when Martelli - another researcher - is dead, Savino perhaps, I don't know, the teacher will have had a hysterical crisis because she has not gained anything in all senses, you will have my age and publish that (xylella, ed) is not pathogenic (but we already know this): embè? In front of this we should understand that there is no point in cutting trees. At the beginning of this year the Regional Councillor of PD Fabiano Amati shot a video saying that the xylella was advancing. I have heard many colleagues say that xylella is advancing: it is false. The region's data is fake. I made a complaint in the prosecutor's office, colleagues, and the prosecutor seized that Monopoly olive tree that - according to the plant health observatory that carried out the checks - had been declared infected, so it had moved the containment belt by 10 km to cut other trees. The prosecutor intervened, seized the tree following my complaint and ruled that it was not true that the tree was infected with xylella. So, Lecce's attorney transferred a whole series of acts, wiretappings and computers containing e-mails to Bari for jurisdiction. It is useless to cut trees, and for this reason, through this amendment, I ask that we wait twenty-four months before cutting because we are talking about live, healthy trees. Some trees have been treated with the Scortichini method, which is scientific, having been certified by three industry scientific journals with the peer review system, which is the only one that scientifically certifies. Well, this method along with others, like New Olive, which is a soap - as you know, soap eliminates bacteria and we use it every day for our hands - or even electromagnetic waves are remedies to heal trees from xylella, to cure them and make them return green. Some fields, which had become completely dry for centuries, have returned completely green. Colleagues, with amendment 8.2 at least we can assess in two years the real resistance capacity of the plant through care. If we cut the trees, Puglia will lose 11 million olive trees: an irreproducible heritage. Remember, ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing above all the Apulian senators - that our olive trees are not reproduced and will be replaced with plants - I say this for the good of all - that they are owned... PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). These plants are half a meter high and need 15 liters of water a day, which in Puglia is not there. The oil is worth less than two euros per litre. Where did they put them? In Almeria, Spain? They escaped, they abandoned the land, there is desertification: a disaster. Those little trees are useless and, by the way, they don't get infected, they get infected anyway. So, what's the point of cutting a tree alive and healthy, since those 11 million olive trees are mostly all healthy? Only 1.8 percent have bacteria. By the way, they don't get infected, they get infected anyway. So, what's the point of cutting a tree alive and healthy? Most of those 11 million olive trees are healthy: only 1.8 percent have bacteria. So here we are faced with a great deception. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, finish. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We want to use European funds and we have understood that from the public prosecutor's wiretap, which I invite you to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u152	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that we will vote strongly against Mr Ciampollo's first-signed amendment, which clearly expresses what should not be done to combat xylella in Puglia. To delay the eradication of an infected plant by twenty-four months is the method to absolutely continue to spread xylella at the rapid rate that the bacterium has shown to have in recent years. I also want to say that unfortunately, even in the legislative work, we continue with a systematic spread of fake news. It is precisely during these hours that the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is saying that the whole of the European Union is at risk if the control measures it has established do not apply promptly. I believe that Senator Ciampolillo would render a service to Puglia if he began to rely on science and not on his extemporaneous visits to some infected tree present in Puglia. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Ciampolillo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u153	No, please, you need to talk to me. Talk to me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u156	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, I too am speaking to vote against Mr Ciampollo's amendment, because providing for treatment for 24 months means destroying Puglia, which has already been destroyed by seven years of negligence by governments, including regional governments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to draw the House's attention, however, to Amendment 812 which aims to streamline eradication practices and which we call on the Senate House to vote, in order to speed up eradication today, because olive production in Apulia is being destroyed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u157	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 8.4, which is identical to amendment 8,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli, identical to amendment 8,200, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Protests from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u160	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). What's the matter? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, please. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). What is it, colleagues? Does it bother you that I read the D.A.'s investigation? Does this bother you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, I gave you the floor, so talk to me. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Excuse me, but a colleague was talking to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just talk to me. You're welcome, Senator. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry that Mr Centinario is not here today. Indeed, when he came to Bari, he himself said that he deals with tourism: it will be for this reason that there is not. He himself said he was an expert in tourism and did not understand anything about agriculture: these are his words, he spoke them in Bari and I was not alone in the prefecture. [[Brusio.]] If you don't even like the Minister's words, it's not my fault. Well, from the decree of filing on the case xylella, which has been moved by competence to Bari, emerge some confidential conversations among the investigators, researchers and managers of the Plant Health Observatory: those who for you would be the science are all investigated. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. What are you talking about? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). It emerges, in particular, what the proxy defines as incredible sloppyness - they are not my words - in the operations of sampling the materials on which to carry out the analyses in order to prove the presence of the bacterium. Emblematic in this sense are the photographs extracted from the personal computers of Maria Saponari, researcher of CNR, and Vito Nicola Savino, director of the center "Basile Caramia" in Locorotondo, where only analysis can be performed. Those data of the Region are all distorted, so much so that, when the prosecutor intervened, he discovered that it is not true that the xylella is advancing to Bari, but that tree is completely healthy. Photos were found in that computer where you see a guy sampling with his bare hands after he jumped a gate. So they did the sampling. STEFANO (PD). It was almost better when you signaled the pianists! CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). It's all data that proves exactly the opposite. From the exchange of e-mails among the suspects comes to surface also other - feel this - that is the preponderance of the economic interest, that is the prospect of obtaining financing for the exclusive benefit of the university of Bari regarding the purpose of scientific research. Valeria Mignone and Roberta Licci dedicate an important space to this, so much so as to say that this second aim (that of funding) has clearly conditioned the approach of the suspects to the issue since the very first jokes and already to the detriment of transparency and scientific research. Then, as an example, a direct e-mail to Antonio Guario, then director of the Regional Plant Health Observatory in Bari, and to Donato Boscia, researcher of CNR, written by Franco Nigro, professor of plant pathology at the University of Bari - are the scientists to whom you refer - on September 19, 2013, on the days when the problem began to be discussed openly thanks to press articles. The e-mail is as follows: As you may have noticed from the press review, other college colleagues are also at work. I therefore believe that, for my part, it will be necessary to speed up the findings collected both at this stage and in previous tests carried out in similar situations. Finally, it would be appropriate for the pool to meet shortly (possibly before 24 p.v.) to try to figure out who is contacting financial resources in his name and account. It's the D.A.'s document. Moreover, the Public Prosecutor also notes that from the e-mails you find on the computer kidnapped a constant and almost embarrassing attention to the reflexes in the matter of scientific notoriety and the economic perspectives of the management of the phenomenon, then carried out under regime of substantial monopoly by the university of Bari and the laboratories connected to it. It is even possible to study and propose drafts of the legislation on xylella, drafts which also specify the amount of funding to be allocated exclusively to research conducted by the University of Bari. If that's not enough, I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u161	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,201, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli, up to the words "contaminated plants." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.8 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli, until the words 'Medima decision'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 8,202 to 8,204 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.9...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u163	We shall cancel the vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u164	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, of course, the problem would be solved if the Secretary Senators also looked on this side every now and then, because it is not pleasant. Mr President, this is a very simple amendment, which seeks to make people understand and contribute to avoiding the explantation of all monumental plants. It is therefore called for at least to abolish the eradication of monumental plants, which are one of the added values. On the other hand, we should, at least on this side, make a very special and quarantine programme, because they are one of the added values. Even so, I have seen amendments calling for the repeal of the law of the Puglia Region which had protected all non-monumental plants. I invite everyone to reflect on this. We should have a long, even more in-depth debate in the relevant scientific forums. These rules, however, are by way of derogation from everything: by way of derogation from environmental standards and by way of derogation from landscape rules. At least let's reduce the damage and try to preserve the monumental plants.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u165	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8205 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8206 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 8.10 identical to Amendments 8.11 and 8.12 the opinion of the 5th Commission is subject to rewording. I would ask the signatories to these amendments if they accept the request for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u166	Mr President, we insist on the vote on the amendments, because the proposals do not increase expenditure; and we have discussed them in the Commission. On the contrary, with the adoption of these amendments, which are all similar, we will certainly save money. Today, in fact, the chapters of expenditure on these controls are planned. In this case, we predict that in the infected area the eradication of contaminated plants, including monumental plants (...) is always absent at the request of the person concerned, if it is not expressly denied by a rejection order. In this case, therefore, there is absolutely no increase in expenditure and the opinion of the 5th Commission can be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u167	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendments 8.11, tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators, and 8.12, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 8,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u170	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, the amendment to the proposed text concerns the monumental olive trees of historical interest. Whereas, in the text proposed, in the last period of the first paragraph, under Article 18-a, it is expected that plants may not be removed on a case-by-case basis if the presence of the infection is not established, I propose, with my amendment, that the reasoning be reversed. That is, only to the monumental olive trees of historical interest, to establish that the explantation of these plants is not allowed, unless the presence of the infection is established. It seems to me to be a reasonable and appropriate measure, on which I call on the rapporteur and the Government to meditate, before launching an unfavourable opinion, and to consider whether it is appropriate to set aside it. I do not think it can be reworded as an agenda either, given the nature of the arrangements. I refer, however, to the generosity of the Government and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u171	I would like to ask the rapporteur and the Government if they confirm the opposite opinion on Amendment 8,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u172	Mr President, I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u173	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u174	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,207, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli, up to the words "aread." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.208 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.13, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senator De Bonis and Martelli, until the words 'paragraphs 2 '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8,209 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.212, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.13 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.15, which is identical to Amendment 8.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u177	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the case that those of us who were scandalized at the time and today tried to put our hands on that indigestible principle of criminal immunity with reference to certain so-called Ilva-saving decrees, observe carefully the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 8 of the measure, of which I propose the deletion by amendment 8.14. The measure states that in Article 6 (4) of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 3 April 2006 (single environmental text), after the letter c- bis), the following is added: - c-b) the plans, programmes and measures of plant protection protection adopted by the National Plant Health Service that give effect to emergency phytosanitary measures. This opens a window of substantial immunity or impunity with reference to plans. For goodness sake, the principle is reasonable, because it is clear that in order to take emergency measures one can consider keeping someone working free. However, on the basis of the experience we are facing, although my voice is in the minority in the examination of this draft law, I would like to pay close attention to the device that I propose to repeal. In fact, even here they risk opening faults in the system of legality with reference also to decisions and determinations not aimed at the common good (I want to use this round of very delicate words). Therefore, I propose that we maintain the current rules contained in the single environmental text and not allow these escape routes, which we might regret tomorrow. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u180	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 8.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u181	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.15 tabled by Senator Ciampollo and other senators, identical to amendment 8.14, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.15 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.16 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 8.217, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.20 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 8.16, identical to Amendment 817, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u184	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of amendment 8.16, at the first signature of Senator La Pietra, who tries to put a stop to the lack of strategy that this Government carries with it, including on the subject of xylella. The measure under consideration is a bunch of measures, which translate some rallies and tweets and also on the subject of xylella does not give tools through which to try to manage the emergency. We believe that the Extraordinary Commissioner can ensure reasonable management of the emergency. We think so today and we thought so a few years ago with Minister Martina. I was then in opposition, but shared with him the idea of an extraordinary commissioner with powers of civil protection. It was an instrument that was shipwrecked as a result of that investigation, but also of a blockade that the negationists made to the application of a plan. The Commissioner can be a way through which, with extraordinary powers, the emergency is dealt with and that is why we will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u187	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, we will vote in favour of both Amendment 8.16 and Amendment 817. I think Senator Stefano will, too. We are convinced that, at extreme evils, extreme remedies are needed: a Commissioner is needed to implement all the necessary measures to address today a problem that is not only of Puglia, but will shortly be a national problem and, therefore, other measures will have to be used in the immediate future. The government must immediately summon a table and appoint a commissioner, because an extraordinary structure is needed to deal with this emergency. We therefore vote in favour of both amendments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u188	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.16 tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendment 817 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.21, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, up to the words "cultivated by Xylella." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 818 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8218. BUCCARELLA (Mixed). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.19 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.2 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8.3 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8.4 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8.5 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.6 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.7 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u189	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u190	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u191	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8- bis.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli, identical to amendments 8- bis.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 8- bis.200, tabled by Senator Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 8-b of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u192	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I am also in favour of the G8-b.1 and G8-b.2 agenda and against the G8-b.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u193	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u194	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.1, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli, identical to amendment 8-b.200, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.2 tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8-b.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u197	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 8-b.201 merely wishes to stress that if it is right - and you are absolutely convinced of it - to eradicate the trees infected by the bacterium, at least that before it is made sure that the plant has the bacterium: very simple. It would be disarmingly consistent, but I'm afraid it won't be approved and I'm very sorry about that. STEFANO (PD). Fake news!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u198	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.201, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.202, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.203, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.204, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8-b.3 tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators, up to the words "live accredited." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8-b are therefore excluded.4. We move on to amendment 8-b.5 which is identical to amendments 8-b.6 and 8-b.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.5 tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendments 8-b.6 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators, and 8-b.7 tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8-b.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.8 tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8-b.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.9 tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8-b.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.10 tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 8-b.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.11 tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-b.12 tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8-b.1 and G8-b.2 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8-b.3 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8-c of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u199	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u200	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u201	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.1, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.200, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8-c.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.8, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 8-c.2. identical to amendment 8-c.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u204	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, Amendment 8-c.2 has been turned into an agenda. I would like to understand why you are voting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 8-c.2 does not turn into an agenda. THE PIETRA (FdI). Yes, Mr President, it has been turned into an agenda in the Commission and received a favourable opinion from the rapporteur and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u205	Perhaps you have proposed this in the Commission and not in this House. Are you asking for this to be changed to the agenda for the House as well? Senator Taricco, would you like to turn Amendment 8-c.3 into an agenda? TARICCO (PD). We agree to turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u206	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u207	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur, with the wording "to assess the appropriateness of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u208	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8-c.2 and G8-c.3 will not be put to the vote. Let us turn to amendment 8-c.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8-c.9 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators, up to the words "for cooperatives." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 8-c. 4 and 8 are therefore excluded. c.5. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.6 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.7 tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.0.1, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8-c.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8-c.0.2 tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u209	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 9. I am in favour of the G9.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u210	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u211	Let us move on to Amendment 9,1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u212	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 10. I am against the G10.1 agenda. I am in favour of the G10.2 agenda. I am opposed to the G10.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u213	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u214	Let us move on to Amendment 10.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 10.1, 10.2 and 10.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G10.1, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G10.2 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.3 tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 10.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.2, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to Article 10-a of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u215	Mr President, I am in favour of the G10-a.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u216	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u217	Having been accepted by the Government, the G10 bis.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10b of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u218	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Rule 10b.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u219	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u220	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10-b.1, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendments 10-b.2, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators, and 10-b.3, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 10-c of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u221	Mr President, I am against the amendments and the agenda G.10-c.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u222	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u223	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10-c.1, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10-c.2 tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10-c.1 tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10-d of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u224	Mr President, amendment 10-d.0.1 had already been withdrawn from the Commission and turned into an agenda with the favourable opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, and it was re-tabled in this House for a mistake of mine. I would once again ask for it to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u225	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u226	Mr President, I would like to ask Senator La Pietra whether the text of the agenda is identical to that presented to the Commission. If so, my opinion supports the inclusion of the agenda. [[Senator La Pietra makes a nod of assent with his head.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u229	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, we also withdraw our amendment 10-d.0.4, which is identical to Senator La Pietra's amendment, and we call for it to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u230	I take note of that. Senator Battistoni, do you also withdraw your amendment and turn it into an agenda, given that it is identical to the previous two? BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The text of the agenda is identical to that adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u231	Mr President, I accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u232	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10-d.0.1, G10-d.0.4 and G10-d.0.5 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 10-d.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 10-d.0.02, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10-d.0.3, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u233	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled. I also support the G11.1 and G11.2 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u234	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u235	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11.1 and G11.2 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 11-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u236	Mr President, Amendment No 11-a.1 refers to the fact that Article 11-a, which provides for an appropriation to deal with the crisis in pig farming, was incorporated into this provision during the examination in the Chamber. We would like to point out to the Government that we cannot continue as if nothing were, as if there were no European standards, even those recently approved on animal welfare and certain practices that continue to be used and therefore aid cannot be given without conditioning, as we, on the other hand, expect to do with this amendment, thus making any form of aid conditional. This applies to the pig sector now, but it can also apply to other sectors. It should be noted that there is, in particular, a problem of very cruel practices in this area. We therefore call for all aid to be subject to verification of compliance with the minimum standards laid down for the protection of pigs, of which not only the legislative decree, but the new regulations approved by the European Union. We would, of course, prefer the main route to the adoption of the amendment, but since I see that an agenda has been presented at the first signature of Senator Russo, I would ask you to sign it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u239	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of Amendment No 11. Amendment No 2 to turn it into an agenda with the same text as that submitted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u242	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that, at this point, of course, I would also like to be able to turn our amendment 11- bis.0.3 into an agenda, because it is identical.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u243	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u244	Mr President, I am in favour of the amendments for which there has been a request for a change to the agenda. The opinion opposed the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u245	There was a request that Senator Battistoni turn amendment 11- bis.0.4. Even Senator De Petris?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u246	As I said earlier in my explanation, I am asking for a vote in favour of the amendment, but I said that I used the floor to say that there is an agenda on the same subject at the first signature of Senator Russo, to whom I would like to add the signature. I therefore maintain the amendment and ask that we add the signature to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u247	Senator Vallardi, I would ask you to give your opinion on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u248	Mr President, I call on you to accept the agendas of the G11- bis.1 (text 2) and G11- bis.2 (text 2). Finally, I invite you to accept the agenda G11- bis.3, tabled by Senators Cucca and Taricco, if reworded as part of the provisions, replacing the words "to take steps" to ensure that the European Commission organises, with the words "to raise the European Commission's awareness of the problem, including through the "instrument."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u249	Senator Cucca, do you accept the proposed reformulation? CUCCA (PD). Yes, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u250	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u251	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-a.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11- bis.1 (text 2), G11- bis.2 (text 2) and G11- bis.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 11-a.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-a.1 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11- bi s.0.2, G11- bi s.0.3 and G11- bi s.0.4 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 11-a.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u254	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, my intention was to keep Amendment No 11-a.1 in the vote, on which the House has already voted, rejecting it, and also to add the signature to the next agenda. As far as Amendment No 11-a.0.5 is concerned, I intend to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u255	Senator De Petris, I thought you said something different. The agenda G11- bis.0.5, identical to the agenda G11- bi s.0.2, G11- bi s.0.3 and G11- bi s.0.4 received by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We move on to amendment 11-a.0.6, identical to amendment 11-a.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.0.6 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators, identical to amendment 11- bis.0.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.0.8, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.0.9, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 11-b of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u256	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I call on you to accept the agenda G11-b.1, and I propose to the first signatory, Senator Taricco, the following rewording for the agenda arrangement G11-b.2: It commits the Government to confirm enforcement actions for illegal poaching and fishing carried out by vessels not authorised to fish on the basis of existing criminal and administrative sanctions; to prepare a monitoring of the effects of the provisions referred to in Article 11b and to report to Parliament on the effectiveness of the above provisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u257	Senator Taricco, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the rapporteur? TARICCO (PD). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u258	Mr President, as far as Amendment 11-b is concerned. I am against this. The Government is willing to accept the G11-b.2, with the rewording presented by the rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G11-b.1 I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u259	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11b. 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u260	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u262	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Amendment No 11-b.1 calls for the deletion of certain regulatory provisions which, frankly, have really amazed and dismayed me. How, in fact, is it possible to reduce the penalties for illegal fishing, with all that this entails? At a time when everyone makes declarations, signs appeals and tweets for the defense of the sea and the ecosystem, with this decree-law you insert a rule that goes to significantly decrease the sanctions to the illegal fishing, among other things with a serious damage to all those - the small fishing, the fishermen - who work respecting the rules and the rules. Since an agenda is not enough in this case because we are talking about sanctions, so we need precise rules, I would ask colleagues to repeal, through this amendment, the reduction of sanctions for illegal fishing. This time we are talking about fishing, not pigs or cereals: it is fishing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u263	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u265	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 11-b.1 and the following, we would like to make some clarity by stressing two important steps in our view. With regard to paragraph 1 of Article 11-b, with regard to the amendment of the sanctioning system of fishing at sea, we recall that it was strongly wanted by the League and strongly supported by all political forces with a fruitful work of Commission to the House. Everyone, in fact, had well understood the proper purpose of this provision. The connected to the agriculture of 2016, amending the legislative decree on the measures for the reorganization of the legislation in the matter of fishing and aquaculture, had operated a decriminalization derubrating to administrative illegal a series of conducts previously qualified as criminal offences and introducing administrative sanctions, but, in the application phase, they had turned out disproportionate in relation to the violations committed. The new sanctions laid down appeared, therefore, not proportionate, unfair and far too burdensome compared to those which may be the infringements carried out by the fishing undertaking, totally disregarding the principle of proportionality invoked several times also by the Community regulations. The same supervisory bodies were forced to raise reports to crazy figures even for small violations because they were not given the opportunity to modulate the sanction in proportion to the extent of the infringement committed, considering, therefore, all fishermen as criminals. The measure of these sanctions was therefore likely to jeopardise the continuation of fishing activities. Not wanting to go too far into the merit of the functionality and goodness of paragraph 1, which concerns exclusively the fishing at sea, but of which I wanted to emphasize the necessary and urgent intervention, I recall, however, how to make a serious reflection on paragraph 2, which introducing the concept of relapse impact on poaching in inland waters. I have seen, without any shame, the same amendment that had been amended to the House and which we find here in its first wording. It tends to liberalise, once again, poaching tout court in our inland waters, which in my opinion had been well mitigated by the rapporteur of the provision in the House. I therefore think that today it has been revealed that, within the process of concertation and sharing of intentions on the marine waters, the insidious forcing of wanting to interfere in the internal waters, demonstrating precisely, with that amendment of the PD, not to know in the least that system based on the equilibrium of a norm, article 40 of law n. 154 of 2016, that it saw until now block the fish poaching in the rivers. It would suffice to know that in those waters the controls are not carried out by the Coast Guard, nor by the Finance Guard, nor by the Carabinieri, but are carried out for 90 percent by the ecological guards, therefore by volunteers. These are voluntary guards who bravely and forcefully fight poaching and who do not have sanctioning equipment and instruments able to verify the relapse in the crime. For this reason, we are providing for the definitive settlement of the lack created, so that there is no longer this kind of problem and that sport fishing in inland waters is protected, just as it must be protected those who have been fighting poaching for years, with their own means and risking their lives, and who has returned 70% of the catch to this world, which otherwise would have ended up illegally in foreign countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u266	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u268	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, we have withdrawn Amendment No 11-b.2 and we have asked for it to be transformed into an agenda, which essentially includes two things. Firstly, in the light of the fact mentioned earlier by my colleague, who came from the fisheries sector, that sanctions should be repaired, so that they can be better compared to the scale of the facts, we take note of this amendment. However, we asked for the Government's full attention to be paid to verification, so that poaching was excluded from these benefits. Moreover, since this is a completely new application of sanctions, we call for the Government's commitment to monitor the effects and effectiveness of this measure and to report in a year's time, including through a written report (we do not need the Minister or the Deputy Minister to come), to let us know what is the picture of the results of this year, so that we can assess whether the rule is okay or whether we need to take some further action. We would like the G11-b.2 agenda (text 2), with these kinds of commitments, to be accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u269	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11-b.1 and G11-b.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 11-b.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.1, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-b.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.02, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11-b.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u272	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make a very brief explanation of vote. We will vote against this amendment, not because we do not accept the need and urgency to give a structural response to the whole issue of anti-mafia documentation; in fact, with a number of amendments, we have already proposed to make structural the answer that brings the exemption range from EUR five to EUR 25,000. We shall vote against Amendment No 11-b.0.3 because the exemption is too high: we believe that it is excessive to reach EUR 150,000. I would just like it to remain with the acts that we are in favour of revising the provisions on anti-mafia documentation, but not in this entity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u273	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.3, tabled by Senators Berardi and Battistoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-b.0.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.4, tabled by Senators Berardi and Battistoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-b.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.5 tabled by Senators Berardi and Battistoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-b.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-b.0.6 tabled by Senators Berardi and Battistoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u274	Mr President, I am against the G12.1 agenda and all the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u275	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u276	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G12.1, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 12.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli, until the following word is added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.0.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.2 tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.0.3 tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.0.5, tabled by Senators De Bonis and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u279	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the text we are about to vote on contains important measures for the agricultural sector on which there has been substantial sharing by all political forces, so our Group will vote in favour. However, we do so with the awareness that the decree-law under consideration was born to deal with some specific emergencies, so it does not exhaust the issues and needs of our agriculture. In the past legislature there has been intense regulatory action to bring agriculture to the center of the country system: there have been important bureaucratic simplifications and a strong initiative to promote generational change, as well as to enhance niche and quality productions. There has also been a commitment to recognise the more general function of mountain agriculture as an instrument to combat hydrogeological failure and to prevent depopulation of the territories. Our hope is that agriculture will also be at the heart of the action of the Government and Parliament in this parliamentary term. Agriculture needs agile working tools, which facilitate the rapid framing of the workforce in relation to immediate production and harvest requirements. In addition, specific attention is needed to protect agri-food and to combat the counterfeiting of the Italian product, which is one of the main problems of the whole sector, as the agricultural organizations never fail to mention. (Followed by Mr Durnwalder) We need an agenda for mountain farming which, as I said before, also plays a role in terms of social cohesion and environmental protection. Finally, we need policies to attack the bureaucracy which, especially for small businesses, is a real obstacle to growth. With this in mind, it is certainly a good thing that the House approved the amendment to exclude the Autonomous Provinces from the new regulation on bluetongue, because of the fact that there have been no such cases in our territories, and that all this would have taken only the profile of bureaucratic aggression. With the same logic we are struck by the failure to accept the amendment on the exclusion of small dairy farms from the periodic communication of their own productions. It is an important cost to these companies, also from an economic point of view, and therefore it was a proposal of simple common sense that could be accepted. In any case, it is indicative that, in the process of conversion, the decree-law has grown by incorporating more general rules and measures: it is a demonstration of the need to intensify work on this sector, placing it at the heart of the work of the Government and Parliament. It is with this wish that I reiterate the Group's support for the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u282	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to say quite clearly in the explanation of vote that, of course, there is regret at the fact that in the second reading (again, but now we are accustomed to a single passage), there has been no possibility of intervening in order to amend this decree-law which, as it says, the title itself, was actually devoted exclusively to emergencies and to certain provisions of support, particularly for companies affected by atmospheric events. Frankly, even with regard to the urgent provisions referred to in the title of the measure, and in relation to the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, the intervention envisaged is, in our view, very partial. All this is regrettable because, among other things, I believe that this is the first agricultural decree-law that is being debated here in Parliament. And I regret that because I believe that it would be absolutely necessary, at a time like this, not only to proceed to a general reflection - I am convinced that, and perhaps the government should reflect on this, an agricultural conference on the future of our agriculture - but also to understand - because it has not been understood by this measure - what are the lines of action for agriculture and its relaunch. One issue is clear: while we are talking, we have other sectors in crisis and we have other emergencies from the atmospheric point of view and I think it is now essential to address this issue systematically. With climate change, the government should immediately - and I hope with the help of the opposition - take on itself, once and for all, this issue, organizing and structuring a real plan for adapting agriculture to climate change. Otherwise, we will have these buffer interventions all the time, which are being done to try to compensate for the damage. While we are talking there is again a crisis in Emilia-Romagna; we have probably had problems in this region too, but we will continue to have extreme events that impact heavily on our agriculture. Among other things, our agriculture - we all fill our mouths - is an absolutely crucial sector for our country, not only with reference to the agro-food sector from the economic point of view, but also on the environmental and landscape level. Therefore, we would have expected, at least in this case, an attempt above all to address the crises arising from atmospheric emergencies, therefore of an exceptional nature. We hoped that a proposal would be presented on this subject and a reflection would take place, but that did not happen. As for the sectors in crisis, we are dealing with very urgent cases such as sheep's milk. However, with specific reference to the whole issue of the emergency also in Sardinia, despite the fact that a fund is established for supply chain contracts and provided for a specific allocation, the measures - I repeat - are not sufficient; it is useless that we turn around. In fact, you also know very well that the first to show dissatisfaction were the Sardinian pastors, who have clearly communicated that they intend to resume the protest. Let us now come to the question of xylella. I do not repeat things already said, but this affair is dragging and there was also an attempt to introduce stricter penalties. There is, however, one aspect that is absolutely intolerable for us (then the discussions on the scientific significance of certain facts will probably continue, even for a long time, but there are certainly many problems): it is not acceptable for us to intervene by derogating from all environmental and landscape standards. We have tabled amendments, at least on this point, to reduce the damage, but we do not want to understand that the issue is very sensitive. Continuing always with the method of derogation and, even, with very heavy sanctions and the use of public force also for the eradications, I do not think we will go very far, also seen how the interventions contained in the measure have been packaged and the resources placed; I am afraid that the damage will be remarkable: we will talk about it in some time. As far as the citrus sector is concerned, we asked the Commission, even with the tabling of an amendment, for a sector plan to be put in place at last, because it is not enough to go to China to overcome the crisis. The measure contains a positive but very partial intervention. The existence of a crisis that is now very deep in the sector has been recognized. Of course, the creation of the fund is a first step, but not enough, because it is absolutely necessary to get to the sector plan urgently. Continuing, there are other very critical points from our point of view. With regard to intervention in favour of farms, we cannot sign the calls for animal welfare and, at the same time, continue to provide aid for farms where we know perfectly well that animal welfare rules and European directives are being violated. Finally, the intervention in the fisheries sector also seems frankly, once again, out of proportion to us. It is not possible to continue flanking illegal attitudes and behaviors that in themselves cause enormous damage, because at the expense of the marine ecosystem and a highly fragile system, such as that of our Mediterranean. We do the plastic free campaigns (up to a certain point), we mobilize and then in the end what happens? We cannot protect the fundamental resource of the sea, and above all, once again, we reward illegal behavior, at the expense of legal behavior. By all this I mean that there are certainly positive aspects. As far as the distribution of resources is concerned, in my opinion, children and stepchildren have been made: in Lazio, for example, during the same period we had enormous damage for the atmospheric events of which there is no trace in the provision. There are interventions for the revival of the sector which, in our opinion, are very partial and insufficient and interventions, such as the one on xylella - with all the derogations from the current regulations - and on fish farms, which see us strongly opposed. Mr President, we have abolished the contrary value of abstention in the new Rules of Procedure, but this is the case where it is absolutely necessary. We announce the vote of abstention for the very many shadows of this decree-law and for some of its absolutely negative parts, but we also take into account the fact that we are facing sectors and companies that actually need strong help at the moment. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u285	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, I have already had the opportunity to express our thoughts in general discussion, so I will try not to repeat concepts already set out. Our attitude was, above all, a stimulus to the measure. We have tried to make a positive contribution, even in the awareness of the real impossibility to modify the text of the decree-law that emerged from the discussion that took place in the House. Nevertheless, we have tabled a number of specific amendments in this spirit. I am thinking of the amendments to Article 2, which provide for a contribution to cover the costs incurred for interest on bank loans contracted by companies by 31 December 2018. We have submitted proposals for amendments with the aim of extending this contribution to other financial transactions beyond 31 December 2018 and until the entry into force of this law and the coverage of these costs not only for 2019 but also for 2020. I am thinking of the amendments to Article 3, with which we have tried to improve the traceability of sheep and goat milk by identifying all those involved in production. I am thinking of our proposal for a refinancing of the intervention fund for the olive-oil sector, with a substantial increase from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million, precisely because of the importance of the specific sector. I am thinking of the issue of xylella, which is why we have tabled amendments providing for an automatic procedure for the eradication of contaminated plants in the infected area or the amendment calling for the establishment of an extraordinary Commissioner responsible for implementing all the measures necessary to stem the spread of the bacterium, not to mention our request for additional resources for the revitalization of processing structures. I am referring to the mills which, due to the decrease in the product, are likely to close. We have done all this without forgetting the real responsibility of the Puglia Region, which has transformed a situation of normal management into a real national emergency. We have also asked, through some amendments, to extend the aid for the weather events of 2018 also to other regions that, like Puglia, have suffered considerable damage. I am thinking of the amendments aimed at providing aid also following other emergencies, such as poultry farms and the sugar and maize sectors, and, last but not least, an increase in the Fund for the Experimental Zooprofiling Institute of the Mezzogiorno, which is carrying out all its activities with its own funds. In short, there are a number of concrete proposals to improve this law, but not only: in the Commission we voted against very few amendments; on some we abstained, but on the vast majority we voted in favour, regardless of the political side that had presented them, considering them all of common sense and in favour of agriculture, even if they were then rejected in their entirety by the majority in government. Too bad, because a further opportunity has been lost to contribute, all together, to one of the most important sectors of our production. Finally, I would point out that, despite the rejection of the entire package of amendments proposed by Brothers of Italy, through the work in the Commission, our Group has managed at least to obtain some commitments, thanks to the transformation of four of our amendments into as many agendas, all accepted by the Government, also in the Chamber. These are common sense measures, ranging from support to farms at risk of closure due to the decline in milling and the recognition of contributions to support the mills and processing cooperatives in order to support the production capacity of olive oil, to the extension of measures for the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises in the cereals sector, also to the cultivation of maize and, finally, to the facilitation of the prevention and control of infections in poultry farms. We hope that these commitments will actually be honoured by the Government, effectively pursuing the aim of relaunching a sector in deep suffering, which is proper to this measure. For these reasons, I declare the abstaining vote of the Brothers of Italy Group and ask you to allow me to conclude, Mr President, with an appeal to the Government, to the Minister and, in particular, to the Undersecretary in particular. The measure to our examination tries to give solutions to some emergencies, perhaps the major ones, but certainly not all: it would have been preferable to widen the horizon of intervention. The aid and everything we are doing is good, because the agricultural sector needs it anyway, but in all this there is no real and concrete intervention on the biggest emergency that stifles our agriculture, that is, bureaucracy, Mr Undersecretary. Our farmers, farmers and fishermen and the entire processing chain suffer continuously - as if it were an emergency, like atmospheric events - for an asphyxiating bureaucracy, which sees our companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, fighting daily with a system that prevents them from producing and working with tranquility. Nobody, be it clear, wants to avoid compliance with the rules, as long as they are simple and understandable. Mr Undersecretary, speak with the Government on what is the real and greatest emergency in the agricultural world. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u286	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u288	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on, as we have already had the opportunity to say both in the Commission and in the speeches made here in this House, is hybrid. On the one hand, in fact, it is late, if it intended to be an emergency measure: we are here to discuss the reasons that would justify the intervention a year and a half after this has occurred; therefore, from this point of view, it has already occurred. On the other hand, the measure has unfortunately left out too many fundamental issues, which would have had to upset its structure, if we had wanted to take the time to put in place a substantial measure to deal with the issues. We are convinced that in the decree-law there are interventions aimed at tackling the crisis of the sheep and goat sector and those resulting from the frosts of Puglia and xylella, which we would have liked to improve (and in fact we have also tabled amendments on these points); equally, there are also a sketch of response on the issues of the crisis of citrus cultivation and pig farming and a small mention of the situation that is experiencing the sugar sector. In fact, however, we have left out the sectoral crises, including those in the cereals sector, for the vegetable world, and in the tunnel sector, for the animal world, which would have required at least as much attention. Above all, there is no overall strategic vision. I quote two questions. One concerns the issue of frost; I believe that a measure, which has taken the time to reason on this issue, should have dealt with the issue of the difficulties of agriculture when disasters occur and, therefore, the issue of insurance. We have a split country, at least on the insurance front. The measure in our examination was necessary because the damage was extraordinary, but we will work with the rules of the National Solidarity Fund and, therefore, with interventions that have greatly reduced the actual damage that companies have suffered. Addressing the issue of insurance, putting companies in a position to have guaranteed and insured the income they expect, means doing everything else. Reasoning on these issues, one year after the events that have taken place, would have been crucial. We would have liked the issue to be central to a measure of this nature. I believe that one of the issues with which the measure has been dealt with is precisely the way in which the critical situation has been addressed. I still remember the big square assemblies six months ago, in which the minister arrived, saying that he would think about it, that everything was solved and that there was money for everything. I believe that this mode, on the one hand, generates inappropriate expectations because Superman and Mandrake do not live here; on the other, we know that then the tools available are not able to deal with the problems at that level of expectation. I believe that this issue has unfortunately created the premises for the measure that we have in our hands, then, adding one piece at a time, a sort of omnibus arrived very late. We have tabled a number of amendments aimed at closing the gaps, introducing a number of issues, as colleagues from other parliamentary groups have done, with the ambition of closing the gaps in the areas to be addressed. Even with regard to the emergencies related to climatic events we have proposed to give answers of a vastly inferior size, equally heavy however for the companies that have suffered them, also for the territories not included in the norms of the measure. At second reading, since we have waited from the beginning of the year until today, it could be done well, approving some supplementary norms, and then returning the provision to the House. We would not have finished the examination before the European elections, but I believe that the theme is not to bring the scalp to the Europeans, but to give adequate answers to the expectations and expectations of the farms that raise the issue. The amendments were all rejected. We have presented a series of agendas which have a reminder function. The lack of these issues, Mr President, is also linked to the fact that the same agendas that we have presented have also been presented by the majority. A majority that in a parliamentary passage is limited to presenting agendas that signal problems, represents the plastic certification of a failure, because it means that the things that had to be done, in essence, have not been done and, therefore, to save face at least, there is an agenda that tries to address the issue. On the question of xylella I just want to say two things: we are not deciding which and how many plants will have to be cut down. The rules we have adopted are partly shared by us. Here, too, we would have liked to have made a different argument, but we believe that these rules address the issue of providing tools to regional phytopathological bodies, which will have to decide how to intervene. So, from this point of view, we have not cut down 10 million trees, as some have said in this House. On the validity of the scientific paths I can only say that the same prosecutor who carried out the investigation that had severely slowed down the routes that in the Region had to be carried out to counter the xylella, at the conclusion of the investigations asked for the filing. So if we needed a certification to tell us how much this issue has been exploited, I think this can be useful for that purpose. The main drawback in this measure, as we have already pointed out in the vote, is Article 4 on milk quotas. I believe that we will have a chance to return to this issue, because I want to see, at the end of the day, when the decree is issued and the rules will be implemented, what results they will bring. As I said, our clear feeling is that this measure simply serves to create the premises to be able to repugn all the administrative acts that will be enacted and to send back to dead father the reflection on the closure of the game in this sector. In this regard, I would like to make two comments, and I would like to do so firmly, because the damage caused by the milk quota affair to agriculture and animal husbandry in particular is immeasurable, since it has created a situation of absolute and profound injustice. In fact, there are companies that have produced without taking care of rules and without taking care of anything, because someone said: "Go ahead quietly, because we protect you; and companies that have adhered to the rules. On this subject, the things I have also heard in the Commission, namely that there is no certainty about the quantities actually produced and that analysis must be done to see exactly how things went, have found a timely response in the Court of Auditors' report of 2012, which says one very simple thing: whatever the quantities produced, if there had been room for increasing production, this should not have only concerned companies that had failed to comply with the rules, but should have been shared among all producers. I know hundreds of companies that have reduced their productive potential and their investment potential to stay in the rules, and I know dozens of companies that have beautifully ignored everything and have used to invest those resources that other manufacturers have used to pay fines and buy quotas. And today these companies have unduly a significant advantage over companies that have respected the rules. For these reasons we shall not vote against it, because the measure objectively has some content that we believe is expected for months from the agricultural world. But just because there are things that are missing and things that are wrong from our point of view, we will not be able to vote in favour. Therefore, with great regret we are abstaining with the hope that the approved agendas will open up space to new, more balanced and balanced responses that our country owes to the world of agriculture. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u289	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u291	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, for a very long time the demands of our farmers, farmers and all those working in the Italian agricultural sector have been gradually debilitated to secondary problems in a sector that they painted as if on the way to sunset, a sector that is not fashionable, as if it were not inclined to work: the Cinderella of our Made in Italy. It made a lot more scene dealing with high finance, banks, entertainment, selfies with singers or actors, while those who get soiled from the evening to the morning remained unheard. For us farmers have always been the guardians of the traditions and crops of our territory. With the production of excellences and the extraordinary work they do every day, we can have high quality products on our tables. Farmers have been faced with extraordinary situations such as continuous climate change, the diseases that increasingly attack our crops, as well as the unfair competition that comes from countries primarily European, but also non-European, which most of the time export to our country products even of poor quality. We at the League have overturned this paradigm. We have put these neglected categories for too many years at the heart of our political action. The situation was so emerging that the decree-law even took the name of "emergencies in agriculture." The text that we approve today, with a very broad consensus from what I have also understood from previous interventions, contains a set of interventions in the field of agriculture that are intended to affect the olive-oil and dairy sectors, the sheep and goat sector and the citrus sector, thus addressing the state of crisis in which they are placed. The text prepared by the Government, an Executive of which we are proud and which has paid attention to the agro-food sector that had never been known before, addresses first of all the problems that have occurred in the regions of Puglia and Sardinia: the infection of xylella and frosts have put in crisis the olive sector in Puglia and the sheep and goat sector in Sardinia for the excessive drop in prices. To deal with the first of the two emergencies, we did not get overwhelmed by the madness of those who wanted to destroy everything without criterion, nor by those who were ideologically - and still is - hostile to uproot even a sick plant. With determination and balance we face this phytopathy and let the sector start again in Puglia by allocating 300 million euros for olive regeneration. Then we immediately make a contribution of eight million to the development and cohesion fund for the productive recovery of olive oil mills located in Puglia. We provide a contribution for the total or partial coverage of the costs incurred for the interest due for 2019, considering the particular productive criticalities and above all the needs to revive a certain productivity, always bearing in mind the principle of competitiveness that there is also and especially in this sector. Of Sardinia, and of the problem of the breeders that has put into crisis the economy of the island and was about to turn - due to the gravity of the situation - into a problem of serious public order, the vice-president of the Council and minister Matteo Salvini and the minister Gian Marco Centinaio to whom, if I may, I would like to recognize today, on this occasion, to have given a clear and important signal of discontinuity with respect to their predecessors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The prices charged up to that time on milk were no longer able to guarantee the feeding of animals and forced the closure of many farms, putting at risk the work, the animals, the stables, the meadows, the pastures guarded by generations of these breeders. The life or death of many companies depended on a few cents of euro per litre of milk. In fact, if you remember, Ismea, in an important evaluation at the beginning of the year, had said that sheep's milk had now been oriented at a cost of production higher than the market price. It was no longer possible to continue in this way. With today's measure we relaunch our farmers producers of sheep and goat milk, investing 10 million that will go to support the supply chain contracts, district, promotion but also structural interventions in the sector. We have allocated - and must not go unnoticed - 14 million to the most deprived national fund for the purchase of PDO cheese made from sheep's milk. These will serve to promote the consumption of the stocks of cheese, to lower the offer by raising the price, but without waste that would be immoral in modern times such as these we are living. We support the market in this way and we guarantee people in economic difficulties to feed on products of the highest quality. This is a text that we strongly wanted and it is a decree-law that we have all improved together, with the contribution of all. On this occasion, in relation to the original text of the decree-law, only in the Commission have our fellow Members of Parliament approved 84 different proposals for amendments, introducing important innovations. We have helped to extend its original purpose to resolve issues whose solutions have been expected for years, such as pig farming and the sanctioning reform of fisheries, which has already been debated before. The measure from the initial 61 million committed for 2019 has increased to 79 million, then 150 million annual, for the years 2020 and 2021 relative to the revival of agriculture in the Puglia Region. The decree-law began its process in the Commission on 2 April 2019 and was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 17 April 2019 and today 15 May is approved by the Senate. I believe that this speed in approving this measure shows that there is a conscience on the part of all and an understanding of its gravity and importance. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would just like to remind you that what we are approving here in this House is due to a sector that is decisive for Made in Italy, it is the first part of that important supply chain that is agri-food, which is worth 205 billion and represents 12% of GDP, showing itself to be a driving force for the whole economy. This sector is worth 1.3 million employees, 33.3% growth over five years, 41.8 billion euros of exports. The Italian agricultural companies of excellence and the main brands of the national food industry tell of a reality from the primacy of Made in Italy in the world, and this is fundamental. Italian agriculture continues to occupy a central place in the economy of our country both in terms of production and in terms of services and functions. We intend to proceed on this path. I would just like to remind you that in the budget law we have already approved substantial measures for the world of agriculture. We have taken a quick look at all the direct interventions on the agricultural world and, with today's measure, they are worth 950 million euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This government has put almost a billion euros in the hands of agriculture. We cannot say that important things have not been done. The analysis of the economic situation of the sector shows in the meantime a resumption of the value of the production, as mentioned earlier also by the undersecretary Pesce, but also that the prices of the agricultural products sold have gained six percentage points and that on the food consumption side also consolidates the recovery of the expenditure of the families (+2 percent). First of all I would like to thank Minister Centinario and the entire structure and team of the Ministry for the support [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , undersecretary Pesce, present here, undersecretary Manzato, the president of our Group Romeo, the president of the Agriculture Commission Vallardi, all the senators who have committed themselves in the Commission and have understood the importance of the spirit of urgency of this measure. As other colleagues have said before, no one 50 years ago could imagine that man could go to the Moon, and a few years ago we could not imagine that we could export Italian products to the world, but above all to the Far East and China. I believe that never as today have we seen that this is feasible. Minister Centinario is also in the Far East today on an important mission: we are exporting oranges, we are exporting pigmeat, but we will soon export other products. For all these reasons, for what we have done, for what we will do in the future, but above all for the content of this measure, I declare the support of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier Sardinian Action Party. First Italian farmers, always. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u294	SERAFINI (FI-BP). Mr President, in considering this measure as appropriate for the sectors concerned, I would like to draw attention to the aspects that emerged during the examination of the measure in the Commission, namely that the work of the legislator must offer economic stability and ensure an opportunity for growth through legislative instruments that are of socio-economic support and are functional for companies in the sector, in order to ensure, over time, sustainability and income. Agro-food, as a whole, consists of diversified productions, extremely important and strategic for our country, both for the style of our food tradition, and for the socio-economic impact that the companies in this production chain cover. It is that area of our GDP, which in all institutional fora states that it wants to support and defend against counterfeiting and from that phenomenon that affects products made abroad, which, using the "sound" of a name, deceive consumers, making them think that they are Italian products. In the case of Italy, agri-food productions not only guarantee food sustainability, but also have a cultural value and an attraction for investments and tourism. Each Region is characterized by particular productions and uniqueness that enhance this or that territory. For this reason, agro-food has always been a strategic supply chain for the Italian economy, considering that the turnover of the food industry in 2018 seems to have reached 140 billion euros and that, overall, the exports of food industry products in 2018 are around 41 billion euros. The food chain must be strengthened in order to improve the position of farmers, the profitability and competitiveness of their farms, by increasing the knowledge of the contribution that new mechanical and IT technologies can make to the effective sustainable management of farms and the maximization of production, as well as the important role that tourism can play in the vitality of rural areas and in increasing the added value of agricultural production through the promotion of local products. I recall that the meeting in Japan of the Agriculture Ministers of the G20 countries, which ended on Sunday, 12 May, highlighted the need to promote sustainable agriculture through new information and communication technologies, such as artificial intelligence, robotics and drones, as well as increasing cooperation between farmers, non-agricultural enterprises and universities, intended as research centres and reservoirs of knowledge and young people, who can with their professionalism improve the production chain and the commercial possibilities of the agricultural system. I think it is important and indispensable to reason on what should have been faced for a long time, that is the possibility of overcoming, and in what ways, the criticalities present in the agri-food system to avoid that they can recur and how we can prevent them. There is a need for structural measures which, as has been pointed out in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, can guarantee producers a profitable price, the exploitation and quality of the product. We must have an articulated vision of the system, of what it is and what it could be and act with a planning and development approach in the medium and long term. We always say that cultural and environmental assets and our food and wine and food tradition are our treasure, to be valued and safeguarded: our country has much and is what we envy all other countries. What is lacking, sometimes, in decision-making centres like ours, is a vision of the whole and the preparation of structural interventions, which support, enhancing, this system in an effective and lasting way and which also allows small producers to have their spaces. Small producers can, with their presence, avoid even the depopulation of small villages. We must think of food production as a glue for the country, as it generates wealth for the territories. There may always be crises due to sudden natural or environmental disasters, but the criticalities, in the absence of exceptional situations, represent distortions, which can be predicted and avoided by concerted interventions and quickly shared by the public and private system. We also wonder if the unsolved criticalities are due only to choices put in place by governments or reside to a certain extent also in a divided agricultural world, in a myriad of associations, which sometimes show that they do not share the same ideas and even the same problems. I wonder, that is, whether the agri-food system also has any responsibility. If the public system can, as a decision-maker, create those conditions that allow the private system to express its potential, I wonder if it should always be the subject called upon to redeem any criticality or problem that the private encounters and that the private could solve if well organized and structured. Sometimes, some criticalities occur due to lack of analysis and preventive assessments. For this reason, I believe that the Government should ask agri-food associations to encourage their associates to use new intelligent climate technologies, including software that allows faster and easier access to the latest weather data to mitigate crop damage due to climate instability. We welcome the Government's attention to the issue of wildlife raised by us and the need to set up a national fund to assist regional funds in order to cope with the enormous damage that certain animals do to agriculture. With regard to the damage caused by bad weather, not always the covers to protect the fruit and vegetable are effective and often the productions are damaged in a very serious way. This requires immediate action by the technical structures responsible for ensuring timely verification as delays may be detrimental to the request of the state of disaster and compensation for damages. We need accurate checks, rapid checks and less bureaucracy. With reference to xylella and the Extraordinary Plan for the regeneration of the olive sector of Puglia, I wonder if it would have been possible to predict a replantation in the same particles of at least an equal number of olive trees that have been recognized as resistant to the bacterium. As we know, for Salento and for all Puglia the centuries-old olive trees represent the territory and characterize it. In those territories affected by xylella, as one of our colleagues in the House recalled, it is as if an earthquake had occurred, a disastrous event that has defaced the history, culture, tradition and economy of those places. We appreciate that the Government has shown interest in an agenda that asks, in the drafting of the implementing decree of article 6-a of the measure under consideration, to assess the opportunity to allow access to the funds provided for there also to the Apulian mills that have seen a decrease in turnover compared to the median value of the corresponding period 2016-2018, due to the reduction of the production generated by the bacterium of xylella. I place to the Assembly and the Government an aspect of criticality that I consider important for the future of agro-food and that I hope the Government tackle as soon as possible, again, against additional data already acquired. I am referring to youth employment and generational change, key issues of the current and future Community agricultural policy, which concern the formation of human capital, counselling and the transfer of innovation. Despite the intention to help young people, it seems that there are obstacles to the entry of young people into the construction of an agricultural enterprise: high prices of land, initial plant costs, high selectivity of existing policies, legislation and bureaucracy that are still too complex and long as it is time-consuming. I think, for example, of the past at the time when the implementing decrees were issued. In order to support our future, it is therefore worth considering whether the range of sector measures that can be used in the youth package, including through the cognitive survey tool, should be extended and whether the tax measures and incentives available are really effective. Many young people are attracted to agriculture, even as a way of life. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, may I ask you to leave the full text of my speech to the record? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Of course, Senator Serafini. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. SERAFINI (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President, and I shall begin with the conclusion. The problems of decreasing production of olive oil persist, which has decreased by 34 percent. There are problems related to Italian rising, which, according to Confindustria, would have now reached 90 billion euros. The problems remain in temporal and economic terms, related to compensation for damages suffered by companies for the bad weather, damages that the trade associations estimate, for the last events of these months, in 10 billion euros. These are damage to plants or foodstuffs, affecting the company's stability, fixed costs, for example for employees and suppliers, and contracts for the sale of products for the internal and external markets. Criticalities remain for reclamation consortia. In particular, the energy costs necessary for the operation of hydro-vore and irrigation plants have a heavy impact on the contributions to be paid by the consortia. For all the reasons of overexposed criticality, evaluating the whole of the insufficient and absolutely non-solving measure of numerous situations of real emergency for the agricultural sector as a system, we express as Forza Italia-Berlusconi President a vote of abstention. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u295	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u297	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Italian agriculture, the basic and primary sector of our country's economy, thanks to its centuries-old culture, variety and excellence, continues to play a fundamental role and flywheel for our domestic product. It also remains a garrison of the territory, it works to mitigate the effects on climate change and evolves increasingly towards environmentally friendly methods. The analysis of the economic situation in the sector shows, on the one hand, a recovery in the value of production, on the other hand, a decrease in production in terms of quantity, mainly caused by a not favourable climate trend. Agricultural prices have gained on average 6 percentage points, so the recovery of investments is consolidated, a sign of recovery of a climate of confidence of the operators. It is precisely the resumption of confidence that this measure wants to consolidate, intervening on realities united by a clear state of crisis. The sectors concerned are olive-oil, citrus fruit, dairy products in the sheep and goat sector, the pig sector and the fish sector, all of which are key sectors. In 2018 agricultural production increased by 1.5% in quantitative terms: a marked increase was recorded for some productions, in particular wine (plus 14.3 percent) and fruit (plus 1.5 percent). Among herbaceous crops, the most significant increases are those of industrial plants (plus 7 percent), cereal crops (plus 3.5 percent) and horticultural products (plus 2.1 percent). Unfortunately, olive oil production has fallen sharply (less 36.9 percent) and a sharp reduction has also affected citrus production (less 6.8 percent). There are two objectives. The first is to intervene with measures to overcome emergencies; the second is to plan structural growth interventions and prevent these emergencies from happening again. We come to the individual sectors. In the dairy sector, in particular sheep and goat milk, we have witnessed serious protests by farmers in recent times. A budget of 10 million euros is provided for the relaunch and support of the sector, to which are added 5 million euros in order to face the interests on the loans of the enterprises and 14 million euros for the fund in need, that will allow the purchase of cheeses PDO produced exclusively with sheep's milk. A monitoring tool is provided for the production of cow's milk, sheep's and goat's milk, to guarantee the quality and transparency of the individual operations affecting the supply chain. With the decree-law in question the Italian product and the imported one will be traced; with the traceability of the products the breeders will be able to control the evolution of the markets and will finally have the opportunity to contract a price of the milk that is profitable for the sake of the dignity of the job. The measure also intervenes in the olive oil sector, which has suffered in the Region with a greater vocation (Puglia), where more than 50% of the extra virgin olive oil is produced, a natural disaster of epochal character, just like an earthquake that breaks down monuments and cathedrals. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of centuries-old trees subject to rapid desiccation. From Maglie to Lecce, from Gallipoli to Brindisi is an apocalyptic, catastrophic scenery, a grey cinereal, extended as long as eye picks, of centuries-old olive trees even monumental, of alide ramifications. Four years after the European Commission's implementing decision No 789 until the resolution of the Regional Council of Puglia n. 1,890 last October, we are still witnessing the advance of this harmful phenomenon which initially developed within a limited outbreak. If that were not enough, the frosts were added. Today, however, with the decree-law under consideration, we move from words to deeds. The intention is to revive the entire Italian olive sector, first because around the world when it comes to extra virgin olive oil we evoke the name of our country, Poscia because the demand for quality extra virgin olive oil is constantly growing and on the quality of this green gold we are second to none. However, while some other European countries have drawn up and financed several olive plans, overcoming us in terms of production and profitability, in Italy we have remained to watch and also to speak. That is why we need concrete manoeuvres and a vision that has so far been absent. The aim is to raise Italian olive growing, starting from Salento, with a plan of olive regeneration and relaunch of the sector with the use of 300 million euros to rely on the solidarity fund (made by Minister Lezzi), which add to the 100 already allocated previously. This applies to the whole chain, from the producers in the region of Tuscany. For the latter, a capital contribution of EUR 8 million has been allocated. There is also intervention in the citrus sector with a budget programmed on the relevant fund of EUR 10 million to address interest on loans raised by companies in the sector. With the conversion of the decree-law, aid is also given to the pig sector with 5 million euros intended to strengthen the supply chain relationship, to promote information and promotion of pig products, to improve quality and animal welfare by promoting innovations, supply chain contracts and business organisations. The Decree-Law also finds a solution to the recovery of the additional levy on milk quotas, a long-standing issue which has been going on since the 1990s. Permission is allowed to advance 50% of the required amount of direct CAP payments, giving fresh impetus to agricultural enterprises in sectors in crisis. The National Solidarity Fund for compensation is also increased with an additional EUR 20 million; action is taken to ensure that supply chain contracts already implement all the parameters that will prevent unfair practices and situations of imbalance. EUR 2 million is provided for olive oil companies in Monti Pisani, which have suffered the devastating recent fires. Certainly, the conversion into law of this decree-law marks an important and peculiar passage for a sector of the fundamental Italian economy, often not taken into due account. Solutions to emergencies, some of these even old and now very heavy. All of them are pro-active in planning for structural measures, for which the delay referred to our competitors is already for a few decades. This work is the result of listening to the requests made by our farmers, our fishermen and our farmers. To restore confidence - and I repeat: trust - to the operators of the sector, to the young people who want to try out in the many trades and specializations of the largest and largest of our factories, the one made up of lands, seas and heavens. Announcement, therefore, the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u298	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u299	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u300	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote this Parliament condemns to death more than eleven million olive trees of my beloved Puglia: our Puglia, dear Apulian colleagues, perhaps more tied to the chairs than to the commitments made with the citizens. I understand, moreover, that today President Conte, even before the decisions of the Senate, formally invited President Emiliano to proceed with the cutting of olive trees. An outrageous behaviour on the part of a person, moreover, not even elected by the citizens. The cut of the olive trees, largely not even affected by Xylella, not affecting the other plant species on which the bacterium is potentially present, is of no use for the purpose of the claimed purpose of blocking the propagation of the bacterium itself. Moreover, the new species of olive trees of superintense type, formed from rows to low plants, requesting an unsustainable water supply in Puglia, besides ruining the landscape, would produce an oil of very poor quality and short duration. I mean, a real scandal. What then? There are cure methods capable of treating the infected xylema of olive trees without the need for their explantation. In particular, the revolutionary use of electromagnetic waves that, appropriately calibrated, are able to reach the infected vase, treating it and curing the olive trees. In addition, there are absolutely natural methods, based on soaps, able to reflower the dried olive trees and effectively contain the bacterium. The institutions, however, refuse any comparison on the subject. This is what has been published in the Newspaper Fact signed by Laura Margottini: The time-based opinions of the EU-EFSA Food Safety Agency on the Xylella case, EFSA issues them today. They say that there is no cure and that only cutting is a solution. They shall issue opinions at the same time as the emergency decree is approved which, in Article 8, provides that official plant health measures and any other related activities, including the destruction of contaminated plants, including monumental plants, shall be implemented by way of derogation from any existing provision. An article that, if voted as such, will trigger a dangerous environmental, health and democratic drift. Cut, cut, cut. Although the Monopoly olive tree, found infected in January in the area considered free, it was then discovered that it was not infected. But what does it matter? In fact, as the well-known journalist knows, citizens care. Obviously not to this policy. We need a policy that is free of party interests, capable of taking courageous decisions to defend the environment and the heritage of our land. All this in a wider and more complex programme of land reclamation and good agriculture, at the basis of the real resolution of the problem. This policy, however, does not belong to this majority. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I would like a minute more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u301	I'm sorry, Senator Ciampollo, but your time is up. If you want, you can deliver the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u302	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u303	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u304	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all as a Apulian and as a citizen of Salento and a Senator of Salento, of that Salento deserted by xylella, I can only express, in dissent from the Group and with the officialness that this prestigious Chamber gives me, my vote firmly opposed to what is a real "pack" presented to my community and to my people. It is a lost opportunity, because with its approval the possibility of giving life to an entire territory disappears and because in this decree-law there is a dangerous effect dragging on national measures, even of the fifty-two million euros of resources made available by Puglia, without constraint of destination. And the fact that the minister Centinario is not here to put his face on, but in Japan to photograph carp, is the proof, if need be, of how little or at all interested in agriculture and even less in the Apulian one. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, the dissenting vote also gives me the opportunity to reiterate that the postponement to after May 27 of the discussion of the motion on Radio Radicale and even more the statements of Crimes today to the press, which reaffirm no to the renewal of the convention, are an attack on democracy and freedom... [[The Senators of the PD Group display signs bearing the words "Savate Radio Radicale" (Radio Radicale).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u305	Senator Stefano, if you were looking for an excuse to show signs, you don't do that in dissenting explanations of vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I call on Parliament's assistants to remove the cartels. We're okay, if you use dissenting statements to do this, too. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u306	The next item is communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1122: "Delegations to the Government for the improvement of public administration" is linked to the public finance maneuver.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u307	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u308	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u309	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would just like to point out and point out that at the Conference of Group Leaders, with reference to the so-called unblocking decree, the Government had undertaken to submit very quickly the amendments it has already announced, so that the timing - and the commitment of all of us - would be sufficient for the Commissions to examine the issues in greater detail. As we have not yet heard about these amendments, we would not want the matter to end as usual, namely that the work of the Committees of Merit should be compressed out every other limit of tolerability. My request to the Presidency is therefore to ensure that the Government complies with the commitments made with regard to the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u310	Senator Marcucci, the State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Santangelo, is present in the Chamber, who will be diligently involved in this communication. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u311	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after hearing the representative of the Government, notes that the provisions of the bill are functional to guarantee the efficiency, the improvement of the administrative organization and the increase of the quality of the services provided by the public administration, first through a reform of the working relationship that points to the valorization of the merit, the competence and the organizational and relational abilities of the staff, in consistency with the programmatic objectives indicated in the Document of Economy and Finance 2019, and that they appear, also, conform to the content own of the connected to the maneuver of public finance, as governed by article 10, paragraph 6, of the Law of Accounting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u312	Pursuant to Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission and taking note of the Government's position, I inform you that the text of the related bill No 1122 does not contain provisions that are foreign to its object as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u313	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u314	You have the right to do so. I remind everyone that it will be mandatory the end of the three minutes available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u315	ABATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to your attention the situation in which the people of Thurio and Ministalla of Corigliano Rossano, hit by a serious hydrogeological event last November that destroyed entire crops and caused the death of 600 cattle, leaving more than 60 people out of the house. In recent days I carried out a survey on the river Crati to verify the state in which the banks affected by the break. During the visit I was accompanied by the actuator for the extraordinary commissioner for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk in the Calabria Region, engineer Carmelo Gallo. The comparison showed that over the entire area of the Crati river auction, between the Sibaritide and Corigliano Rossano, two interventions are planned in the coming months: the first, should go into contract by the end of the year, for the sum of 7 million and 800 thousand euros and is responsible for the same actuator subject; the second intervention is of the value of 1.2 million euros and is at the head of the Department of Defense of the soil, led by the engineer Domenico Pallaria. Over the past few weeks, however, citizens have once again complained of delays in their work. If the Crati River is not secured, families in that area are not planning to resettle their homes and reinvest in their businesses. Fear, in fact, continues to be so much, also because their complaints and complaints have remained unheard and eluded for more than ten years, until the very serious exondation of November 2018. It is therefore necessary to act immediately and not to waste any more time in order to ensure that immediately the work of securing the indicted section starts. One can think, temporarily, of centralizing the course of the Crati favoring the outflow of the waters of the river into the central part of the beehive, in order to lighten the pressure on the banks of the river itself. From here - which I think is authoritative and in fact it is - I want to urge civil protection to install in the riverbed detectors for hydraulic surveillance, technical instrumentation with rain and hydrometric sensors that signal the anomalous increase in water flow, warning residents several hours in advance of the possibility of river flooding, so that they can save human and animal lives. To strengthen my commitment to the population I will urge the Calabria Region to start the planned work with the financing of 1.2 million euros, which would be vital for the security of the whole area. [[Call the president back.]] I would like to ask you a moment more, Mr President. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u316	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u317	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u318	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u319	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, I also speak in this House on behalf of my colleagues from Piedmont, Airola and Matrisciano, and the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, to express our solidarity with the mayor of Turin, Chiara Appandino. Once again, yesterday, the mayor received threats, this time in the form of a bullet sent in the mail. The investigations are already underway to identify those responsible and we trust that there will be full light on this yet another intimidating act against Chiara Appandino. It is clear that more and more people are increasingly annoyed by a mayor who does the interests of the citizens, does not get conditioned and administers his city solely for the good of the community. The mayor herself has stated that this umpteenth intimidation will not stop her and will pull straight on her path. We say to her: "Forza Chiara, we are all with you." And to those who think they're scaring you, maybe because women and mothers, let's say with force that they didn't understand that the women of the Movimento are indomitable warriors and we're all at the side of Chiara Appandino. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u320	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u322	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, at the end of the sitting yesterday, Senator Pagano expressed concerns about the Gran Sasso and the tunnel which are also mine, ours and all the Abruzzo people. I can say that the Government is close to the solution, despite the difficulties due to the multiplicity of the administrations involved. The issue is very complex, but it is being addressed in the right way, with the involvement of all stakeholders. I would remind the Abruzzo Region - which, unfortunately, today seems to be only interested in the issue of the motorway - that the public nature of the water is ensured by the regional statute. I also anticipate that in the decree-law unblocks yards we are preparing the appointment of the extraordinary commissioner in charge of overseeing the design, the custody and the execution of the necessary interventions for the safety of the water system. In short, as always, our political strength confronts the problems with an open face and devotes itself to finding solutions in a short time. As you know, there is a risk of recurrence of the crime and a problem of coexistence with a laboratory: it should have been waterproofed in a lasting and resistant to seismic stress, but the judicial investigations have shown that unfortunately this has not been done. It is therefore inevitable that the release of pollutants can occur in the heart of the Gran Sasso, which is an incredible reservoir of drinking water. It is good that the judiciary has intervened, highlighting the arrogant exploitation of incredible natural resources by regular takers. To date, all we can do is work to repair, well and in a lasting way. Once again, a little distracted politics, so to speak, has not controlled - I hope not deliberately - those who have put at risk the hydropotable supply of hundreds of thousands of citizens. The Government of Change, again this time, is forced to heal the damage done for years and years and to ensure that in the future all this does not happen anymore. The first priority is the assumption of responsibility - I hope personally - of the new President of the Abruzzo Region. I think, President Marsilio, it's time you started beating a few shots. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u323	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u324	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u325	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to remind the House, taking advantage of this moment, that today, 15 May, is the International Day of the Family, which would have deserved special attention from our politicians also in terms of the positive calendarization of measures for the family. I believe that they have been presented by all the groups and there is also an important one presented by us, the new code for the family. Beyond everything, I am very sorry to witness these days the bouncing of the same theme of the family, on the front pages of the newspapers, in a sort of ping-pong between the two Vice Presidents, Salvini and Di Maio, waiting to see who makes the most miraculous promises, but far from concrete facts. I believe that a day like this, today, really deserves to be remembered with concrete and precise commitments, which take into account, for example, the progressive level of impoverishment of the Italian families, their bands that are in conditions of extreme fragility and the difficulties to which the numerous ones are faced. Commitments that also take into account that different and almost seemingly contrasting situation, which has been defined for our country the demographic winter, that is the country with empty cradles, the country in which no children are born. It seems to me that in this echoing even on the level of the competition of saying to us you are stealing the ideas with which Di Maio and Salvini interact with each other, you really should be able to focus some concrete things. There are different laws, as I think many remember, in which it was not possible for battles of all kinds to assume a structural character, while the purely seasonal attitude, like that of bonuses, prevailed. I would like the Government of Change, of which we have seen so far very few changes that were actually better than the system, to give life to the family, even through the discussion of parliamentary legislative initiatives, to an effective and constructive change, which meets the real needs and not only the ideologizations that bounce in the press.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u328	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in expressing satisfaction with the conversion into law of the decree-law on the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, containing measures to support the olive-olear, citrus-tree, dairy and sheep and goat livestock sectors, which have been suffering for many years, I can only stress that this measure lays the foundations for an increase in our productions and, therefore, also of exports, ending up increasing the supply of agri-food on the world markets. This is a first and important step that will follow other interventions in support of agriculture, animal husbandry and fishing in our country. It is certainly necessary to intervene as soon as possible on a serious problem affecting our farms, mortifying the work of thousands of Italian farmers. I am referring to the delays in the payment of contributions and premiums provided for in European legislation, in particular those of the rural development plan by the Agency for Agricultural Payments (Agea). The extent of these unacceptable delays, which have been occurring for years throughout Italy, has now taken on a proportion which has played a substantial role in the crisis in the agricultural sector. Of all this the greatest negative effects are felt by the agricultural companies of the South, in particular the Sicilian ones, forced to wait years before receiving the payment of the contributions due to them. Those who invest in agriculture, especially organic farming, often with quality production, face considerable costs and the repeated delays in payments undermine the very lives of farms. It is disconcerting to note that many farmers are still waiting to receive the payment of the funds of the Rural Development Programme (RDP) for the year 2015, 2016 and 2017. In the light of what has been said, we must continue to support the agri-food sector as we are doing today, and that is why we must close down the old payment practices, the legacy of the governments that preceded us, in order to put agriculture in a position to be a strategic sector for our country. Supporting Italian agri-food, our farmers, farmers and fishermen means in fact helping the Made in Italy and giving back momentum to our economy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u329	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-113.ana.u330	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.28 a.m.
