ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u6	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, yesterday President Casini spoke about the situation in Venezuela, which is getting worse. Unfortunately, this night Mariela Magallanes, the Venezuelan congresswoman who some of us met in recent weeks in Rome, was arrested and detained for a few hours. Mariela is also an Italian citizen, so, more importantly, we ask that the Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi intervene immediately. Yesterday two things happened: after the Supreme Court of Justice dismissed Guaidó, he was also removed from parliamentary immunity; in general, and this night in particular with confirmation of the arrest at the airport of Caracas of Mariela Magallanes, the regime is putting in place an action of repression against the MPs of the opposition, just when the attention of the international community is lacking. Parliamentary immunity is no longer respected, an institution that serves above all to protect oppositions: it is a further confirmation that we are fiercely opposed to those who are oppositioning in Venezuela and that shows the true face of Maduro, who unfortunately has found tolerance and shores also in the Italian Parliament. I think that there are no more excuses and alibi to not strongly condemn the Maduro regime and not to stand up for the Venezuelan community, which sees the arrest and detention of a Venezuelan MP but with Italian citizenship - then fortunately released this morning - confirmation of our concerns. We therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take very clear and clear action to protect an Italian citizen. It seemed right this morning to reconfirm our orientation and also this morning to draw Parliament's attention to what is happening in Venezuela. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I too support this request. I do not think that we can remain indifferent to this situation which we have been planning for weeks, when we chose not to approve certain motions, including that of Forza Italia which called for the explicit recognition of Juan Guaidó as interim President, and consequently the one who was to be entrusted with the possibility of convening the elections. We know that Maduro, first of all, is not a legitimate President (it is also said that representatives of the Government, except then not to be consequent); secondly, regardless of the legitimacy of the presidency of Maduro, the latter is not willing to convene the elections, but rather intends to take action openly hostile to Parliament as such. The abolition of the prerogatives and, consequently, of Parliament clearly shows that there is no possibility of having elections in Venezuela other than through the convocation of someone who is not Maduro. And this someone can only be Juan Guaidó. The government cannot continue to hold a position that before the international community and Venezuelans, in particular the many Italians who reside in Venezuela, makes us appear as a government that stands on Maduro's side, even if with all the ambiguity of the case. This is unacceptable and we cannot remain indifferent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u10	The Presidency is responsible for transmitting to the Government the requests made by the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 844, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 583. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Girotto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u12	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly contextualise the subject we are dealing with. Everyone will remember the Dieselgate scandal in which Volkswagen... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u13	Excuse me, Senator Girotto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u14	Colleagues, the work of the Assembly has begun. Please allow them to be carried out in an atmosphere of silence. Thank you. Please, Senator Girotto, continue. GIROTTO, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. As I said, everyone remembers the Dieselgate scandal in which emerged as Volkswagen rigged the data making it clear that the polluting emissions of their cars and consumption were even 50 percent lower than the real ones. So a crazy scam perpetrated to the detriment of hundreds of thousands of customers-consumers. For some models, FCA also reported 18 percent less emissions than in reality. Well, these class actions are still in progress and are far beyond completion, and that is because the current rule governing class action - which, we remember, is 2005 - provides for a long and far-reaching procedure. Yet we are talking about certain and proven damages - because the actual tests have shown the falsehood of statements - which concern, as I said, hundreds of thousands of people. Automakers always have another grain, another class action in progress, because some of them have signed with their financial companies: it happened that when they sold the car in installments with the financing, the interest rates were inflated because the companies had made cartels. So customers are paying more than they should have paid if there was fair and fair competition. What, then, about the Intesa Sanpaolo society that was condemned following one of the few class actions that there were? In fact, if we are here today with this urgency that many yesterday have deprecated, it is because the current class actions are very difficult to start, very expensive, with very slow and farraginous procedures, but someone has come to a successful conclusion, demonstrating that there are incorrect behaviors. For example, the company Intesa Sanpaolo had to pay because it had included commissions not due on some current accounts in red. This is one of the few class actions that has come to a successful conclusion. Also, I would like to ask everyone present, including you, President, if you have a Facebook account (I think the answer is obvious). Do you know that there is a class action in progress - even this much beyond coming - against Facebook with the claim of 250 euros of damages for each account? About a couple of years ago Facebook, failing to watch properly, allowed a consulting company to steal a whole series of personal data, which still three years ago had an economic value of 18,000 euros (so each of your Facebook accounts is potentially worth 18,000 euros). We therefore want to close this measure, because we believe that it will help honest companies, bring them back to a more fair competitive environment because companies that now take advantage of the cumbersomeness, slowness and cost of this instrument, take unfair advantage of it and therefore make unfair competition. In many speeches I listened carefully yesterday it was said that there is a risk of harming the good name of society, towards which perhaps a class action is attempted and which can then certainly be innocent. But this is a general problem that justice has always had. The news of an accusation has always traveled a million times more than the news of an acquittal; it is not just a problem of this instrument which, moreover, I remember needs a judgment of eligibility. So either you take the burden of saying that the judges who will assess this eligibility are all incompetent, or you admit that there will be a judge who, by looking at eligibility, will block absolutely pretentious actions that make no sense and are not standing. I repeat that this is a general problem of justice. Two weeks ago, a judge established the innocence of a well-known NGO worldwide that had been accused of international illicit trafficking in biological waste having dumped some sweaters and underwear of immigrants in a dumpster that had saved from the famous boats of hope. Of course, the news of the prosecution has been spread on the front pages of all the newspapers; instead, the news of the absolution must be searched for on page 40 of some newspaper. So this is a general problem for the entire judicial system. We think, however, that with this instrument competition will return to a fairer level. Then, I heard other alleged defects in this instrument, but here too the objection I would like to make is always the same: this procedure had begun in the last parliamentary term and had been approved unanimously in the House. If there really was the will to close this instrument by filing the alleged defects, it could be done, but it was not done. So we now take the burden and the honor of saying that we are convinced that we have found a good compromise... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u15	Colleagues, please, can you decrease the tone of your voice a little while while talking to each other? It's unbearable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u16	GIROTTO, rapporteur. Thank you, President. I was saying that we take the burden and the honour of thinking that we have found a good compromise but, not having the presumption of being infallible as repeatedly pointed out also by Minister Bonafede, we will evaluate and closely monitor the development of the first new classes action to see if there are actually any defects or aspects that can be improved, even by monitoring, of course, what will be done in Europe, because the package of directives is still in progress. We will therefore monitor the final text in order to be consistent with what the directives will impose, also acting ex post and monitoring the effectiveness of the instrument, but we are sure it will speed up and make the new class action more effective. Therefore we will make out any defects in the course of work. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u17	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u18	Mr President, I should like to make a few comments. First of all, the idea of transfusing class action from the consumer code into the code of civil procedure has meant that it would become a wider and wider instrument. At the same time, we are faced with a protection that is more widespread as it has been extended both the subjective and the objective scope of the action. This means that the citizen, who is part of a particular class and has individual and homogeneous rights, can exercise his or her action to protect his or her rights. There is therefore no longer a reference to consumers or users, but this limited cataloguing is far exceeded. This also means that each member of the class can exercise the action, as well as non-profit organisations or associations that have as their aim the protection of these rights. Compared to the objective context, on the one hand it is possible to perceive the extension of the scope since the action is open to the protection of the subjective situations which have matured against conduct detrimental to the ascertainment of liability and the condemnation of compensation for damages and refunds; on the other hand, the fact that having made class action a summary process of cognition within the Code of Rite, means that the action to protect citizens who feel injured in their rights is strengthened, more effective and more incisive: at the same time, however, one cannot accept that the guarantee of those who are the recipients of the action is also extended. In fact, both at the stage of the admissibility of the action and at the next stage of the acceptance of the accession, but also of the condemnation, the recipient of the action, being within a canonized procedure in the acts, in the time and in the procedure, will certainly have the right to defend himself and the possibility to prove, if the action brought against him was unfounded, that he is on the side of reason and not on the side of the wrong. Therefore, from this point of view too, I believe that letting it be believed or tried to let believe that the norm is blindly unbalanced towards those who want to experience class action is not entirely founded because the procedure, canonized with the summary rite of cognition, also goes to guarantee the recipient of class action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u19	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u20	Mr President, I do not intend to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u21	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u22	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u23	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u24	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u27	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we regret that there is a negative opinion on this amendment from the rapporteurs and in particular from the Government, because the legislation does not provide for a uniform and uniform settlement of the damage. As I said in the general debate, we have a problem relating to an indefinite liability and therefore not only of a contractual nature. We are then faced with legal inaccuracies, especially when we touch the code of civil procedure, because some corporate actions are not excluded. We therefore call on the Government and the majority to reconsider the contrary opinion that has been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u28	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u31	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1.5 (correct text), which also follows Amendment 1.12. They are both important proposals, and that is why we insist on their acceptance, since they concern the problem of overlapping actions. It is necessary to indicate that adherence to class action involves a waiver of individual action based on the same title; otherwise there is an objective risk of witnessing a game of the parties, with reference to the possibility of experimenting with the action.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u32	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5 (correct text), tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, there are some colleagues who are withdrawing the card: it is a matter of respect! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, we are in the process of voting: the fact of respect is to enter the Chamber when the sitting begins. I must not wait for those who have not yet come to vote. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I would also ask you to speak on the order of business and not in this way directly to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u33	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u35	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, you are absolutely right and I agree with you that we must arrive on time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would ask you, however, to wait a few moments if a senator delays 30 seconds and is already in the Chamber but is waiting to withdraw the voting card, given that there is a queue. I think it's a matter of courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u36	Senator Casini, it's not 30 seconds but 25 minutes. We shall therefore proceed with the votes. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5 (correct text), tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 (correct text), tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.8 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u39	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak on this amendment, which relates to 1.14, so I shall speak on both of them. This is a very important issue: if class action is not declared admissible, it must be advertised. We cannot, that is, set up a class action, which obviously damages the image of a company, without having any consequences; therefore, we buy a page on the web or in the newspapers and we declare that the action is inadmissible. Not only that, the amendment is important because it also seeks to balance the burden of proof, which is completely unbalanced, also with regard to the general principles of our order, and eliminates the part relating to accession after the judgment. I would like to say to the rapporteur - whom I have listened carefully - that it is not acceptable for me to think that only honest companies should have nothing to fear: this cannot be the case in a draft law on class action. What does "honest company" mean? We certainly cannot put a license of honesty nor this can be given by a magistrate, and not because this is incompetent but because if we have three degrees of judgment constitutionally guaranteed a reason will be there. The underlying reasoning that has been made is aberrant because a company must not or should not have the license of honesty; it must be on the market, and therefore have the possibility, if it is instrumentally tried a class action, at least to defend itself. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u42	MARINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer to what I have just heard in asking the Presidency if it could please agree with the presidencies of the bicameral committees. As there is, for example, a shift between the beginning of work in the Senate (at 9.30 a.m.) and in the House (at 10 a.m.), the bicameral supervisory committee on the tax registry is still under way and this poses some problems. Since it is bad to ask questions and not to listen to the answers, but on the other hand this interferes with the work, if the Senate Presidency, together with that of the House, demanded at least the respect of the timing, so that even the senators who start the work of this House first can participate in the meetings of the Commission, I think it would be welcome and would also allow some of us not to be late.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u43	Senator Marino, we will refer this matter to the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u44	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.8 (correct text), tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators, up to the words of the ritual. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u47	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, with Amendments Nos 1.15 and 1.16, we want to introduce a principle, which is fundamental in all the procedural systems, according to which the anticipation of costs for the technical consultant is jointly and severally borne by both parties. The measure, on the other hand, for the first time states that all the procedural costs - I am referring to the advance - for the technical consultant are borne by the resistor, which really cries out with the laws approved by Parliament and also with the practice. The question is this: is it just an image of aggression towards the entrepreneur you want to give, or what is the reason? I believe that the amendment can also be accepted by the majority, because it is a technical correction. If it is not shared, it will mean that we intend to decide without any input from the oppositions, which is always wrong. [[Applause from Senator Moles.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u48	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, up to the words "and "h". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.22 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, until the words "seventh paragraph" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,27 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 1,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u51	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 1.28 concerns the question of the costs of the procedure. Let us go to insert some upheavals in the code of civil procedure, even by providing the prize to the lawyer of the other party. You have to explain to me if this prediction is based on the fact that in the bankruptcy procedure legal expenses are prededucible, or if it is a way to go to stimulate class actions: in fact, those who make them, whether they represent an association - maybe without even a mandate - that a single, has the right to an extra prize in addition to what is normally paid out. This is fundamentally aberrant, in the sense that it could be included in special legislation, but not in the code of civil procedure. Let us not exaggerate and, please, reflect on this legislation for a moment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u52	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.30, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senators De Poli and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.35.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u55	MODENA (FI-BP). We have virtually come to the end of the examination of the amendments, and - I am sorry - I have to speak on Amendment 1.35, which concerns the blocking action. The government - as you know - has tried - not within the limits - to strike a balance when it is necessary to act - for example - against a company that produces emissions that bother or are harmful. Then, in the legislation under consideration, which - I repeat - goes to modify the code of civil procedure, we do an injunction action that can always be proposed, we do not know subjectively by whom, we do not know objectively how and we do not know with what purpose - on this there are teachers and I say it in summary, because we try to be as short as possible - so we can go to block the activity of a company without fixing certain stakes. Let us try, first of all, to understand who can do an injunction, attributing active legitimacy, because this is also important for the certainty of the behavior that companies have to keep. I therefore call on the majority and the Government to review their orientation on this issue as well. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u59	MALAN (FI-BP). I would like to say that I voted in favour of this amendment, which proposes that public administrations should be included in the context of those who are subject to collective injunctions. We do not see why action can be taken against companies, public service operators or public authorities, and not public administrations, which sometimes have even better effects. When, for example, the Revenue Agency - as it did a few years ago and then, thanks to some of our interventions, it has ceased, at least for the time being - asks with its own internal measures for documentation to taxpayers against the taxpayer's code, which is law, this can be overcome by a law, unfortunately, but certainly not by a circular or even less by any peripheral manager. When a public administration carries out unacceptable behaviour, such as - for example - applying rules on traffic limitation that no one can know, if not chasing the news that appear on newspapers and sites that are not always reliable; when municipalities establish restrictions on traffic, but on the website of the municipality you cannot understand what they are and the fines arrive the same, in all these cases it should be possible to inhibit action. Besides, it wouldn't cost anything. Nor does there exist the problem, which could arise with the other article, concerning the action of class compensation, because it would involve, by the public administration, a disbursement. After that, if the disbursement is correct, it should be admitted, but there is no disbursement here. There should be a possibility for users, consumers and citizens to collectively call for the cessation of behaviour detrimental to their freedom and rights. Unfortunately, we always make the right rules, but against others. When for itself, the Government may not comply with the laws; public administration may not comply with the laws. Common citizens, however, even if they respect them, are at risk of serious consequences. That is why we will vote in favour of this amendment, although we know that the majority will want to vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u63	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour. The class action, as foreseen today by the consumer code, did not work. One in two questions was declared inadmissible. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u64	Senator Unterberger, I ask you to be so kind to wait a minute because I don't hear what you're saying. I would ask my fellow Members who are leaving this House to do so quietly. We allow Senator Unterberger to make her explanation of vote. If the rest of the remaining members of the House have the kindness to listen to what the senator says, it all makes sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr President. We therefore welcome the extension of its scope. Its place in the code of civil procedure and the extension of the parties entitled for the proposition of action, which are not only consumers, but also all holders of homogeneous individual rights, are important. Soon we will understand whether the possibility of adherence to a class action even after the ruling of acceptance of the application and the dispute quota pact will generate more benefits or instrumental uses. In any case, the bill has the merit of identifying class action as the useful tool for all hypotheses not only of contractual liability but also of non-contractual liability, which today are limited to unfair commercial practices and anti-competitive behaviour. Let us think of the famous Dieselgate case, which everyone rightly takes as an example. The current legislation gives the possibility of appeal only for the material damages that the owner has suffered from the purchase of the medium; with the new law, you will be able to claim injuries to rights such as that to health or the environment. This is a very important aspect. Citizens, in their being consumers, will be able to make demands for the protection of the general interest. It seems to me a valuable step forward for a more balanced relationship between business and consumers, but also with a view to the social empowerment of companies. This is not a secondary aspect: socially responsible companies are stronger companies, precisely because they enjoy the positive judgment of consumers, and socially responsible companies are also companies that focus on quality and, therefore, are more competitive. Moreover, the use of goods and services is a central aspect of any advanced market economy. To be protected as consumers means to have stronger rights as citizens. So let us welcome this measure and let us welcome the initiatives which concern the sphere of social rights and responsibilities. I therefore repeat the vote in favour of this measure by the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD, and Senator Abate.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u68	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in announcing the LEU senators' vote in favour and I believe most of the Senators of the Mixed Group, I would like to highlight a number of issues that are absolutely crucial to us. Now, our vote in favour is obviously justified by the fact that the measure we are examining and are about to vote finally leads to a reform that is widely awaited by users, consumers and citizens. It is a reform of the institution of class action, which had been introduced into our legal system a few years ago, but which had proved to be in an absolutely ineffective form. This measure follows on from the work already carried out in the last parliamentary term. I repeat that this reform is absolutely acceptable and above all, in the general system, widely awaited by all Italian citizens. The text has greatly improved the existing institute, not only in general favour of consumers, but also by making a very clear choice of field, that of opt-in, i.e. the possibility of subsequent accession to the judgment, obviously providing for a series of more stringent mechanisms for the formation of evidence. Why was there such a need? The numbers speak for themselves: the numbers of the institute of the existing class action were absolutely ridiculous, as far as the actions both taken and reached judgment. This reform was therefore absolutely necessary. The measure, consisting of seven articles, introduces a number of absolutely important elements. First of all, there is the shift of the discipline of class action from the consumer code to the code of civil procedure. Now, this change of location is not just a formal step, but rather a formal one, since, even as a result of this change, the action will be available not only to consumers, but also to anyone who makes claims for compensation in relation to homogeneous individual rights. The presumptions of illegality that can justify class action are thus identified not only in those of contractual liability, in line with what was already provided for by the Consumer Code, but finally also in those of any non-contractual liability. Today, however - as is well known - they could only be done with regard to illicit commercial practices or anti-competitive behaviour. The action - and this is important - will be in the availability of each individual belonging to the class, as well as non-profit organizations and associations that have as their goal the protection of these rights. The reform identifies the class action as the useful tool for all contractual and non-contractual liability assumptions, while until now - I repeat - they were limited to unfair commercial practices. Think - for example - that, in the case of Dieselgate, with the current discipline, only the injury of competition law could be invoked and not that of a number of rights, such as health and the environment. Of course, these innovations bring the institute closer to the much more pregnant one in the United States, which has produced, especially in recent times, a series of actions that are strongly linked to the harming of rights, such as the environment and health. I would like to point out here that more than 800 class actions have been taken in the United States only in the last and a half years, including the well-known action of children on climate change. That is why we did not understand why class action could not be extended to public administrations, and that is why we voted in favour of the amendments proposed by Senator Bellanova in this respect. In fact, the extension to local public services is fundamental and absolutely acceptable; however, in order to give even more importance to the protection of rights, an extension to public administration would have been appropriate. The extension of the legal situations protected and of the instruments of protection is undoubtedly present in the text, also with the forecast of a collective injunction to the authors of the conduct of injury and this is fundamental. The articulation of the class action in three phases also sees us totally in agreement: the first and the second related to the admissibility of the action and the decision on the substance and the last relating to the liquidation of the sums. We also believe that the discipline of adherence to class action, which is allowed both before and after the judgment, is a fundamental innovation. It cries with the unwillingness to accept the idea of extending the forecast subject of the reform also to the public administrations the fact that not only the enterprises but also the public service operators for acts or behaviors of their activity can be so. We certainly hope that, even during the period of monitoring the effectiveness of the reform, which the rapporteur has just confirmed in his reply, we can quickly reach an extension towards the public administration, which we believe is fundamental. Moreover, the introduction of the forecast for which the class action can be entered even later, once the decision to accept the application has been given, is, in our opinion, quite important. We know all the concerns expressed - for example - by Confindustria towards such an expansion of class action, but we believe that this goes absolutely in the direction of greater protection of citizens. The reform also included the possibility of an injunction, which anyone with interest may propose to the judge to end a conduct carried out by an undertaking to the detriment of a plurality of individuals. We also consider this to be one of the significant elements of the measure. In conclusion, in confirming our vote in favour of and for sharing the measure, we add that it is a largely awaited reform, on which we have worked particularly hard in the last parliamentary term and in this Parliament. It is above all a reform that is truly awaited by citizens, so that they can have a further instrument for protecting businesses and utilities. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u69	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Artistic High School "Ambrogio Alciati" in Vercelli, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u72	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Brothers of Italy to express the satisfaction of my Group for the important step we are taking with the approval of a reform that transforms the concept of class action. The mere fact of having repealed Article 140- bis of the Consumer Code (Legislative Decree No 206 of 2005) and of transferring the treatment of the institution into the Code of Civil Procedure already represents a diversity and a new scope of application. I think this is absolutely important. The reason why we did not vote for the amendments which, within the scope, included among the recipients also the public administration is that this class action is distinguished from the public class action, which is governed by the Brunetta law and is addressed, precisely as resistant, to the public administration. It is precisely from having transfused the content of the Code of Civil Procedure that the new scope of application is clear. Article 840- bis of the Code of Civil Procedure, which is reviewed and enters into force with the approval of the draft law under consideration, in fact, extends the scope, both subjective and objective: while the Consumer Code referred only to consumers and users, the new provision deriving from this draft law refers to all those who have an interest. Therefore, by dropping the limitation that the case law in force of the Consumer Code gave as strict as regards consumers and users, even individuals today can intervene. This action is therefore open to all those who make claims for compensation in relation to injuries of homogeneous individual rights. The action will therefore be in the ownership of each component of the class. The objective scope of the action is also widened, which can be used to protect all the subjective situations that have matured in the face of harmful conduct, for the determination of responsibilities and the condemnation of compensation for the damage and the return. As we see, the scope, both subjective and objective, has expanded. The text also identifies the recipients of the action, i.e. enterprises and public utility and public service operators. That is why we did not vote - I repeat - for the amendments which included public administration as a target. The second aspect that makes us feel that this reform, which is expected by the citizens as consumers, is necessary is the time limits that are indicated. The reform, in fact, sets in thirty days the time limit within which the court must decide on the admissibility of the action. This is an important fact that gives the opportunity to have in very fast times the response on the possibility of moving forward in administrative action. The scope, time limit and inadmissibility are foreseen. Class action - says the norm - is inadmissible in the cases indicated: in fact, the requirements for which a class action cannot be considered admissible are listed. The action is manifestly unfounded where it lacks the requirement that the rights to be protected be uniform; where the applicant is in conflict of interest with the resistor; where it is proposed by a claimant who does not appear to be able to adequately treat the homogeneous individual rights brought before him. What does that mean? The legislator wants to dissuade from claims that do not have a real legal basis and therefore dissuade from taking actions that the judiciary must then identify. So, you also evaluate the cost profile. We have a perplexity, and we have therefore voted for the proposed amendments tabled by my colleagues in Forza Italia: when the declaration of inadmissibility is not sanctioned with the condemnation of the costs of those who have acted in a fearsome manner at least. That is why we voted on the amendments tabled by Mr Modena and Mr Caliendo, who cast a small shadow on the reform. But the context convinces us. Similarly, we are convinced that sanctions will be imposed on evidence. Article 840-d lays down the procedures for the admission of evidence and provides that the civil court may apply financial administrative penalties to both the party who refuses without justified reason to submit evidence, and to the party or third party who destroys material evidence. This is an important fact for those who attend courtrooms. To establish a penalty for those who do not exhibit the evidence which is the subject of the judge's order is a novelty that we welcome, because it gives expedition to the trial and puts in conditions not to defate the judicial activity. With regard to the procedures for joining the action, these are ways of convincing us - provided for in Article 840-f - because they pass from a computerized procedure within the portal of the telematic services managed by the Ministry of Justice. There is therefore an important transparency that puts us in a position to hope for the speed of the action itself, even if we have expressed some doubts - and we have therefore voted on some amendments - about the forecast that we can join the action after it has been declared admissible. This concerns us, in a sense, because it could mean that accession is not only a fact of time, but also a specious one for those who are waiting to see if it will be okay. It is a shadow on the reform that I hope will be healed in the course of judicial activity and I think that case law will be in a position to make the right and meaningful corrections. Another aspect that convinces us of this reform concerns the transactive agreements expressly provided for in Article 840-mc, which, from the point of view of transparency, speed and achievement of the objectives, is also very important in a legal rule. Transactive agreements may take place until oral discussion of the case. After the decision accepting the action, the joint representative of the members may conclude with the undertaking, or with the managing institution, a similar scheme of settlement of a transactive nature and the settlement agreement shall be enforceable. This also convinces us of the goodness of class action. Finally, it has been mentioned that inhibiting action is a novelty, in the sense that it is possible that each of the class members can act for the inhibiting action. Here, these seven points, which I wanted to summarize in order to express the positive vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy, convince us of the overall goodness of the measure that Italian consumers were waiting for. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard of an incident that occurred this morning to Senator Richetti, who is currently hospitalized at the Umberto I Hospital in Rome. The Presidency wishes Senator Richetti, also on behalf of the whole House, a speedy recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u76	BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, the text we are approving today is an important measure, born in the previous parliamentary term, which has been able to be optimized in that current thanks to some changes proposed and made by us, so that we can see an objective improvement in the article and its implementation. Members of the House of the Democratic Party Group have highlighted the political fact of a provision that in the last legislature had been proposed by oppositions and therefore by those who today are in government, married and shared then by our Government and by all political forces; a significant fact, the result of a convergence then in part unfortunately failed and that, in the transition from the House to the Senate, we hoped to continue to characterize the confrontation in order to grasp the aspects on which to intervene further, improving a certain important rule but that - as we have heard during the hearings - still needs filings in order to be able to respond to the objectives and expectations of citizens and offer better protection to the collective rights, the rights of users and consumers who currently do not find adequate protection and need special procedures to have a just satisfaction. What we approve today is therefore an important law, thanks to the strengthening and extension of class action, made possible first of all by the ferrying of the action from the Consumer Code to the Civil Code. It aims at protecting rights in an appropriate manner that would otherwise not be found and satisfied in our legal system; consumer rights, the rights of users of public services or, in any case, users of services that are not enforced by those who could. With the class action thus understood, this becomes possible as it becomes possible to improve and enhance, from the subjective and objective point of view, the protection of these rights, introducing a principle of moralization of the market, thus leading companies and companies supplying services to virtuous behaviors that otherwise, in the absence of such a procedure, could probably not be pursued in the same way. Companies should not fear and oppose class action because, in addition to protecting consumers in their rights, it also allows more transparent competition, based on the quality of products and services and not on the downside, perhaps violating consumers' rights or even resorting to abusive practices or fraud. That is why we considered it appropriate, courageous and right to have introduced significant exceptions to the general principle of the functioning of the civil process with the introduction, within the Code of Civil Procedure, of rules aimed at guaranteeing precisely the protection I was talking about earlier. I refer in particular to some exceptions to the principle of contradictory and also to the principle of effectiveness of the judgment, the famous opt-in; a great exception to the ordinary procedure - it is true - which is justified by the need to protect those rights. In other systems - I remember - the opt-out is provided. This means that all members of the class, regardless of whether they have taken the action and later join, have the right to use the judgment recognising their rights. We didn't get that far. We have sought an intermediate solution, which allows us to join later on within a certain period and which - as we know - was not always well received at the hearing. And here I should like to make a few comments. Are we completely satisfied? I say it in no uncertain terms: no. We are not for a matter of method and merit. On several occasions in the parliamentary debate, my own Group has called for and supported the need for a more detailed debate and for more detailed assessments of what was emerging in the course of the hearings. It is true: optimizing the time is important, but not if it is an end in itself because the objective is, and cannot but be otherwise, a fully enforceable and applicable standard, capable of containing different interests and, above all, of genuinely guaranteeing citizens and citizens users. On this - I say this to my colleagues in the majority - it is sufficient to scroll through the texts of the hearings held with the representatives of consumers, businesses and professionals in the field, to measure - yes - the work done, but above all how much filing is still necessary. Comments emerged clearly during the hearings, and not least from experts on the subject, as well as from representatives of consumer associations and the National Council of Consumers and Users whom the Government would have done well to take into account. And I quote those relating to the amount of the dispute or those on the risk of injury regardless of the companies; prejudice which - I say this clearly - cannot and must not be. Worried if the logic that protects citizens and users is passed is equivalent to an injury to the company regardless. Limation and extension, then. And I say with equal clarity that we continue to consider a vulnus to have chosen to exclude any action against the public administration. And yes: you can talk about revolutionaries but, when you are in the middle, you risk being conformists. It is clear that it is a rule that strengthens and provides protection against public service and public utility operators, but does not intervene on the public class action. The protections are either 360 degrees, or risk in the end not to be, and it is clear that the scope of legislative decree n. 198 of 2009 must be revised, recognizing the right to compensation for citizens offended by conduct detrimental to public administration. Since we are dealing with such a lively, constantly changing subject and because of the innovations that the measure opens up, we had proposed - and continue to support its need - the establishment of an observatory made up of representatives of the trade associations of the business world and consumer associations, with the task of monitoring and verifying the effective application of the measure, the functioning of the rules and possible criticalities, in order to make corrections and improvements. In addition, we felt it necessary to commit the Government to ensuring effective coordination between these rules and the European rules being adopted, with particular regard to their scope in order to be able to harmonise and adhere to the new directive being issued. The proposal is based on a number of key points: to extend protection to other specific instruments of the European Union for the protection of collective interests in various economic sectors, such as financial services, energy, telecommunications, health and environment; to allow representative actions by qualified persons; to increase the efficiency of procedures by requiring Member States to ensure the "due urgency" of proceedings and to prevent procedural costs from becoming a financial obstacle to representative actions. These are aspects, as we can see, which are far from marginal, characterising a working method as well as an approach towards dynamics which are naturally evolving and which, moreover, constitute a litmus test in the relationship between user citizens and the market for services more generally understood, which is often likely to crush and render totally inert the consumer citizen, as well as the capacity of the State to fully exercise its regulatory role. These are the reasons why, although the Democratic Party considers this to be an important step forward in protecting citizens and consumers, and will therefore vote in favour of it, it should have taken a more detailed parliamentary debate on the subject and the limits that should have been addressed by a more detailed debate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u79	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in the collective imagination, I dare say planetary, the class action has for all the dresses of Julia Roberts, in the famous film "Erin Brockovich - Strong as the truth". Everyone knows the plot of the film, with the combative secretary of the lawyer who takes to heart the rights of the inhabitants of a small town and convinces 233 to challenge the colossus, to defend their rights. So you get to a cause and the company, for fear of image damage - this is in fact a real problem - decides to treat and give in. So the film ends, but few know that a few years later an independent and serious study was conducted, which established, for example, that in that particular territory the number of pathologies denounced by the cause was not higher, but was rather slightly lower than those of the surrounding area. No one claims to deal with such a delicate subject as would be done in a film, because the difference between the film and reality is also that which passes between a right principle and a provision, which must have two characteristics: not only the strength to address an issue, which we obviously all consider important, but also the balance to do so, taking into account all the points of view and all the interests at stake. That is what the majority of people have made a commitment to do with the measure before us. A short time ago, Senator De Petris said that the passage of the legislation from the consumer code to the civil code is not only formal, but is substantial. Of course it is substantial: it is a substantial step, which takes place after years of confrontation, deepening and even confrontation between different points of view. It is regrettable that some colleagues, particularly Forza Italia, have a somewhat schizophrenic attitude. On the one hand, it claims the merit - as Senator Malan did yesterday - of having introduced an important instrument into the Consumer Code; on the other hand, the risks of the measure are not recognized and the need to improve it. I have to think - allow me the example that does not want to offend the Senate - of that lawyer played by Gigi Proietti, who wants to get out of it well, and then says to the Roman to the client: "Here we're gonna fuck 'em up, you're gonna fuck 'em up!". Why do I say that? Because, if you have the claim to rule a country, you must have the responsibility to deal with all the points in question. We do so not only on the objective level - it has been said in numerous interventions - nor only on the subjective level, as recognized also by the trade associations. I could read a lot of statements, but I am just passing through the hearings that were referred to. I quote that of Confcommercio which in essence says: since the introduction of this institute into the Italian legal order, Confcommercio has not shared the choice of the legislator to limit this institute to consumeristic disputes only (B2C) because this choice is unjustifiedly discriminatory towards the enterprises, in particular those of smaller dimensions, to which the possibility of carrying out class action is currently precluded. This choice, among other things, is now also reiterated by the European legislator, therefore Confcommercio recognizes to this bill the possibility to avail of such an instrument of protection also to the enterprises that have suffered a prejudice as a result of conduct harmful put in place by large private or public enterprises, such as banks, insurances, monopolists, telecommunications operators, operators of public services or of public utility. This is a concrete fact of how the bill improves the situation, as I said, on an objective, subjective level, but also by doing another fundamental thing: giving rules, procedures and certain times, in the interest of everyone. A company cannot stand endlessly with the sword of Damocles of more actions that could follow, of an indefinite time. To cite another example, the uniqueness of class action is a protection for companies; the subsequent accession, but in a limited time, means for a company - which can, of course, be faced with problems and situations - to be able to have the definitive closure of a problem that has been raised. In a framework such as that which I have briefly tried to describe - and I come to the conclusion - and I also reassure my colleague, Mrs Modena, we do not presume to issue honest licences to anyone, to businesses or to citizens, but we do not even claim to be the only ones to have the license of business defenders or users-citizens. We are aware that we must consider everyone's point of view, everyone's needs, and we are convinced that maybe this will not be a perfect law, but it is certainly better than the previous one. We were there when it passed into the code of consumption, we are today improving it, we will be there tomorrow if, once applied, it will need additional "limatures" to which everyone has mentioned. This makes a responsible government force that carries out a policy of common sense. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u82	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, once again, to vote on yet another measure presented by this Government in the usual approximate manner. We're gonna be a little out of the choir today. It is something that, given the nature of the measure itself - class action and consumer protection through collective actions - we would have liked to be able to support without it and without it. This is a measure to which we would have wished to contribute through a constructive parliamentary debate and heard in the Commissions and in the Assembly, which allows us - precisely given the importance of the subject that is very dear to us, as to everyone (but not for this reason we behave with piousness) - to equip the country with a good law. That is also not to say yet, as Mr Briziarielli did just now, that what we are about to vote on will not be a perfect law, but it will be better than the previous one. No, it is enough, when we put our hand into legislation, let's - for once - make a perfect law, which will not need to be modified and modified in the implementing decrees, because this costs the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] As I said, we are faced with a bad law, even if it is inspired by a good principle, such as consumer protection. A bad law that, like all those to which this Government has accustomed us, is not the daughter of the legal culture of which Italy is the cradle of millennia, nor of the balanced compensation between the interests at stake, that is those of the consumers and those of the enterprises, that are the two counterparts of this measure. On the contrary, the legislation under consideration is unfortunately the stepmother of that legislative frenzy oriented to propaganda announcements and to the legal approximation of the worst species that we see constantly in this House. Doing things quickly and badly has nothing to do with the culture of doing things to build, but - on the contrary - is the consequence of the bad culture of doing so much to do, thinking not so much about what is done - excuse the pun - but simply how to use what has been done, quickly and badly, for mere propaganda purposes. And this, if it is already very serious in the administrative management (where it translates into second thoughts, second thoughts, firm strategic works, indecisions and delays, to which this Government has accustomed us, indifferent to the effects and costs that every change produces), is even more so thinking about the effects that every second thought has on the entire nation. In this regard, I can't help but think about the ballet, which would be comical if it weren't dramatic around the TAV (yes TAV, no TAV, maybe TAV, mini TAV and I don't know what else), to silence the recent and grotesque ballet about the 8,250 blue cars that this majority is staged these days, with a Vice President of the Council who didn't know, as he said, or - worse - pretended not to know (which doesn't diminish our concern that, in both cases, we are in the presence of a Deputy Head of Government who doesn't know what he does and, despite this, has the claim to govern the country). But in that case we are only talking about the administrative field, even if it is serious damage, because wasting even one euro for approximation or neglect, in a country on the brink of economic recession, is to say the least a political crime. What we are now being asked to vote on is an extremely important piece of legislation, because it is a regulation that will be included in the code of procedure of our country and that will regulate the relations between citizens-consumers and businesses. It is a messed-up law which bears in itself a further element of gravity, namely that of having been written by looking at only one of the parties involved - consumers - almost as if businesses are always considered to be in bad faith and, therefore, not only not worthy of protection in what should be a relationship between two parties, but - even - to be penalised in any case. All this within a measure that, as usual, comes to us armored by the majority, which seems to have written it not thinking of the fact that the right of a civil state is based on equity, but - on the contrary - having as lighthouse a form of neo-Giacobian social hatred towards those who do business (the theme of Jacobinism will often resume it, starting from autonomy or the will of centralization absolutely). The text is, in fact, clearly unbalanced, as we said, against the great risks for businesses. What, for example, about a class action that can be promoted by a single individual or by associations without a mandate? What about the fact that it is possible to join the action as soon as possible in the opinion of individual consumers or the judge's discretion? What should we think of the fact that a share of the compensation goes as a reward to the lawyers and associations that supported the action, as if the conviction was not enough already? And then for what reason and in the name of what particular merit? To say nothing of the fact that the costs must be anticipated by the defendant as if, decided on the procedure of the action, it should already be guilty for this very fact. And why has the European recommendation on the economic reliability of consumer protection associations been ignored and the recommendation to put rigid filters already in the law so that only qualified and reliable ones are allowed? But above all, why must a sword of Damocles hang on the head of undertakings without any guarantee being offered to them? The proposal that we are called upon to vote on today extends in detail in specifying obligations, burdens and sanctions for the company that is unsuccessful and forgets completely the fact that it can, on the contrary, emerge victorious from the action in order not to have the responsibilities that those who promoted the action intended to contest them. So, where are the sanctions for the actor if the action is proposed and advertised on the basis of unsubstantiated elements, hoping to be tacit with a sum paid perhaps only to avoid unfair negative publicity? Where is the obligation to provide for the deposit by the plaintiff of appropriate guarantees to cover the costs of the proceedings incurred by the company in the event of a victory? Or is it always the company that has to pay, even when it's right, even when it wins? And where are the tools to compensate the company for any bad publicity that might arise in case of victory? Many years have passed and, alas, I too am many years old and therefore I remember well the case of the oil of various seeds Topazius, mistakenly considered carcinogenic by the judiciary on the basis of simple presumptions that then resolved to nothing in court, but brought to their knees the society Chiari and Forti, who ended up passing into foreign hands. You see, we are absolutely in favour of consumer protection, we are ourselves consumers, but we are in favour of it in every way and place where it is legitimate, based on rules of good law, which see both sides, consumers and businesses, as equal actors in court. We will always be on the side of just justice, fair justice, balanced justice. On the contrary, we are not only in favour, but in a certain regulatory framework, without arbitrariness, in which this proposal was balanced and legally consistent, we are even in favour of addressing the issue of punitive harm, another reason for the enjoyment of this Government in the House, against those companies that had to be doubly and knowingly produce to the detriment of consumers in order to increase their profit unjustly. We prefer, however, the idea of a punitive damage that I like to define as "temperated," in the sense that sanctions the enterprise that acts gently without, for this fact, who has already been compensated for the damage actually suffered must be rewarded for the effect of a criminal industrial conduct of others. What we think of is a punitive damage that must be assigned, but following its function, which must be basically educational (he who acts dollously to obtain more profit is hit hard precisely where he hurts most, on profit, precisely), that it is destined not to the damaged, but to the community as a whole through an appropriate provision of the judge, so that from an evil however a good is born. Of course, that is our position, and we would have liked to have discussed it together with the many corrective proposals. Last but not least, one more reflection: laws like this make Italian entrepreneurs run away from the country and certainly do not attract foreign investors, because entrepreneurs by their nature have the need to plan their activities and are not afraid so much by the cost of labour or the tax pressure too high, which certainly please them not, but by a regulatory, legal and action framework of public administration confused and too often arbitrary that, at best, mortifies them and certainly scares them. Little is needed to plunder the postal warehouses, the savings of the Italians at the Cassa depositi e loani in order to finance improbable laws on start ups, if then to blows of laws that still consider the entrepreneur as the owner of Marxiana memory and society and Parliament something to look with the eyes and the preconceptions of a vision that one cannot but consider neojacobin, the conditions for escape are created. This position is aggravated by the fact that it is always claimed to use the word "people" as a kind of blanket of Linus useful to cover any will and any error. Or rules like the one that gets to the vote today, badly written, which, as I said, scares entrepreneurs. I mean, we don't like this provision. It's not fair, it's not balanced. It is done badly, promoted even worse and will, in our opinion, lead to further confusion and damage to the country. For this reason, in the name of Forza Italia, with a voice outside the choir, but, believe us, with a sincere and coherent voice, for the sake of Italy and the citizens all (a love that does not foresee useless pleas), I declare the abstention vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u85	RICCARDI (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before the Senate today sets itself the primary objective of strengthening and extending class action, which was originally introduced into our system by Article 140- bis of the Consumer Code. This project was born in July 2013, when the Movimento 5 Stars, at that moment force of opposition, presented the bill, Act Chamber 1335, at the first signature of the current Minister of Justice, Mr Alfonso Bonafede, text that, after a work shared by all political forces, was voted unanimously by the Chamber of Deputies but without continuing to the Senate its natural process of approval. With the new legislature, we have, therefore, intended to complete that path and give those answers that the citizens ask of us. 11:09 a.m. (Followed by Mr Riccardi). The measure, which follows the text presented in 2013 by the Movimento 5 Stars, has undergone substantial changes that have made the class action more incisive thanks to the introduction of provisions aimed at widening both the legal situations protected and the instruments of protection available. Specifically, it is extremely important to highlight the importance of transferring class action from the Consumer Code to the Code of Civil Procedure, which has in fact transformed it into an instrument of general and universal scope. The reform of the institution of class action is aimed, on the one hand, at making effective protection of citizens' rights harmed and, on the other hand, at the correctness of the actions of companies in the markets. In this regard, it must be stressed that the Movimento 5 Stars, in its path of politics and government, has always placed at the center of its project the defense of the virtuous and honest entrepreneur, and also this provision must be fully framed within the protection of a market that has an extreme need, in the short term, to return to intercept also the confidence of entrepreneurs and foreign investors. One of the most important aspects of the draft law under consideration concerns the extension of the objective scope of class action, which no longer sees distinctions between contractual and non-contractual liability and, consequently, eliminates any application uncertainty which in recent years has excluded or discouraged the feasibility of class action in important areas. The extension of the objective scope of application of class action is absolutely consistent with the overall design of the bill, which extends to all citizens, and not only to consumers, the possibility of collective compensation action. In fact, while the legislation provided for in Article 140a intervened to protect the consumer from conducts aimed at: The draft law in question extends the scope of the action to the protection of the subjective situations arising from harmful conduct, to the determination of liability and to the condemnation of damages and refunds, in relation to the injury of homogeneous individual rights, to the violation of contractual or homogeneous rights which the final consumer of the product or service, or of homogeneous rights violated by anti-competitive conduct, or by unfair commercial practices. The homogeneity is to be traced back to the pentendi cause, so the rights arising from the same multi-suffering fact must be considered homogeneous. The petitum will be more or less different depending on the subject but the action, being directed to protect the whole class, and therefore the whole of the injured rights, will still be experitable. From this, therefore, there is also an extension from the subjective point of view of the legislation under consideration, achieved through the provision of a general active legitimacy and no longer limited to the single category of consumers and users. In fact, the introduction into the Code of Civil Procedure of a new Title VIII-a, under the heading "Collective measures" and, consequently, the repeal of the provisions contained in the Consumer Code, has always made it possible for all those who claim compensation, in relation to the injury of homogeneous individual rights, the establishment of class action. Another novelty compared to the previous legislation is the fact that the application must be submitted to the section specializing in the matter of the enterprise of the court of the place where the resistant party has its seat and that the process of eligibility is regulated by the summary ritual of cognition. With the new bill, the jurisdiction then passes in fact to the court of the enterprises, which issues the judgment of acceptance of the class action and which, in addition to the determination of the responsibilities of the parties, arranges the appointment of a judge delegated for the procedure of accession and the common representative of the members. The procedure consists of two phases, with the possibility of a possible third stage. The accession of citizens will be possible at two distinct moments: at an early stage following the order that admits the action, in which the court sets the deadline to join and defines the characteristics of the homogeneous individual rights that allow the inclusion in the class, and at a later stage, which introduces the possibility for citizens to join after the judgment that accepts the action. The changes made to the collective injunction action, in particular with regard to the maximum extent of the right to act, are also of great importance. In the draft law under discussion, in fact, this action will qualify by looking at the characteristic of the multi-offenseness of the conduct commissioning or non-missive and can be experienced by anyone who considers that he has an interest in the pronunciation of an inhibitor of behavior put in place in prejudice of a plurality of individuals or bodies. All the novelties introduced in class action, as has been said, are aimed at making this judicial action an effective instrument for the protection of the legal interests of individuals. In fact, from studies carried out by the European Commission, it appears that, for the purpose of establishing a judgment, the value of the dispute is the main parameter to which the citizen looks in order to decide whether or not to act in court; as a consequence of this, all too often, illicit of limited individual importance, but with significant collective impact, they remain unpunished. 11:13 a.m. (Followed by RICCARDI). The application of the legislation provided for in Article 140- bis of the Consumer Code has unfortunately confirmed this trend: the proposed actions have been very few, most of which have failed to overcome the eligibility filter and have been trapped in the meshes of a discipline designed to render inapplicable collective compensation protection. It is with positive presuppositions, therefore, that we are going to introduce an instrument that makes Italy a country in line with the directives and the direction of the European Union; an instrument that rewards honesty and protects the rights of all citizens indiscriminately. A tool that allows us to move a further small, but significant step towards those who have placed trust in us and who are now waiting for answers like this. It is for this reason that, with satisfaction, I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u88	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, I fully understand the importance and sensitivity of this subject, on which, especially for those who have a liberal view of economic relations, a balance must be struck between the sacred rights of the citizen and the interest of the enterprise. The quality of the legislative technique is never as important in this area. Mr President, I have read the text of the measure and consider it to be misspelled, full of aporia and dark points. Above all, there is no limit on reckless actions, which will affect the efficiency of the legal system and which will indirectly affect the rights of those citizens who are actually harmed. These are the reasons why I voted against. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u89	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the School Institution "Unité des Communes Valdôtaines Walser et Mont Rose B" in Gressoney-Saint-Jean, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u90	He asked the Minister for Justice to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u91	Mr President, I am speaking only to thank all the senators and members of the Justice Commission and the Industry, Trade and Tourism Commission for their work on the draft law before us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u92	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 844, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator De Bertoldi]] The draft law No 583 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00042 (text 2), tabled by Senator Giammanco and other Senators, 1-00083, tabled by Senator Castellone and other Senators, 1-00098, presented by Senator Binetti and other Senators, and 1-00106, presented by Senator Boldrini and other Senators, on autism. I call Senator Rizzotti to explain motion 42 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we are examining this morning, through common sense commitments, affect the lives of special Italian families. In particular, motion No. 42, at the first signature of Senator Giammanco and signed by me and many colleagues, commit the Government and the Senate to set up a special Commission, pursuant to Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, for matters relating to autism and other disabilities. The Commission would be called upon to: monitor the application of national and regional rules on the prevention, diagnosis and rehabilitation of subjects with autism and other disabilities; identify proposals to make cognitive-behavioural therapies more accessible for people with autism and improve the quality of life of persons with other disabilities; promote the implementation on the territory of services for the rehabilitation of persons with autism and other disabilities; promote national and international research projects; promote the accessibility and dissemination of information on autism and other disabilities; promote programmes for the integration into the social life of these people; promote programmes to assist families of people with autism and other disabilities. All the associations are asking for it. On the one hand, there is an Italy that strives not to leave aside children and adults suffering from autism, creating jobs, associations to spread knowledge and to develop the skills of those affected by this disorder. On the other hand, there is still a lot to do and work on. Just yesterday the World Day of Autism Awareness was celebrated. The Senate hosted the screening of a film, of which I recommend to everyone the vision, Tommy and the others. Thousands of cities have colored with blue the main monuments and there have been many initiatives that, thanks to the tireless commitment of patient and family associations, have taken place. But celebrating a world day doesn't mean celebrating, it means remembering and always keeping the focus of attention and under the spotlight these social problems: words speak of it, but they are the facts that lack concreteness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We believe - and this is demonstrated by what has been punctually reported in the texts of the other motions - that there is not much to celebrate for the tried and tested families who struggle every day against a raw reality, often due to a slow and cumbersome bureaucracy that is struggling to achieve concrete results. For the World Day of Awareness on Autism not to be transformed into the pure and simple self-celebration of things done, but not to be realized, all decision-making levels, from the Government to Parliament and the Regions, must work on an operational plan that makes possible the concrete implementation of the guidelines issued last year, within the framework of the national research programme on mental health of children and adolescence that represent only a starting point. As the data show, it is not enough for a disease to be included in the essential levels of care (LEA) for health benefits to be effectively guaranteed: sufficient funds have not been allocated and are still being cut. On this front we need to increase the national fund established ad hoc, but above all we need to understand how the funds are managed, to what will be destined and what mechanisms will be put in place in order to prevent the law 18 August 2015, n. 134 (a law due for the 500,000 families struggling with a pathology as difficult as autism) from remaining that of good intentions, considering that the facts are done with adequate professional resources that assist the families involved and with ad hoc funds for research. In order not to reveal any other empty boxes, the commitments contained in the motions in question must really be maintained in order to improve prevention, diagnosis, care and quality of life of patients suffering from autistic spectrum disorders, to be fully recognized the disabling effects and to encourage research, also promoting knowledge of a disease around which many prejudices still revolve. I would also avoid, as some members of the government have done, making spiritual jokes to insult or comment on the behavior of some colleague by telling him that he had a certain syndrome; please, let us inform and not insult anyone to make fun of someone, let us try to study. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Autism does not disappear and it is not just a childish disorder. Autism undergoes an evolution and takes a direction already marked during the first years of life, a particularly significant period for the child, during which it is necessary to carry out a constant formative activity, making full use of the precious educational lines of the ABA method. This is the only way to guarantee the patient a better quality of life and an easier capacity for social integration and autonomy. Autistic children become autistic adults, this is a certainty; however, it is not immediately clear the psychiatric approach to be taken with those affected by this disorder. For many years autism in adulthood has been underestimated, both in clinical and academic fields. Moreover, it is well known the scientific misunderstanding, preserved for years, in relation to adults with autism, considered as people with difficulties of social or psychopathic integration. For this reason, the tendency not to follow the therapeutic pathways with due attention over time has led to many problems in autistic subjects. The care and educational approach must remain constant, as is the case with all other chronic psychiatric disorders. The real problem is that after reaching the age of 18, patients are taken care of by psychiatric structures that do not deal with the pathology and therefore do not guarantee the continuity of care and the gaps lead simply to prescribe drugs with psychotropic effects without considering the importance of psychotherapy. I recently accompanied to the Minister for the Family and Disabilities an association of volunteers who are buying at their own expense a place near Carmagnola, my city, to welcome the children after 18 years suffering from autism teaching them important works in the field of agriculture in order to make them autonomous; this association simply asked for the logo, did not ask for money; on the contrary, in this regard it would be time for the Minister for the family and disabilities to think of an accreditation protocol to know what are the parameters with which municipalities, provinces and regions grant the possibility of being accredited. This center has the collaboration of scientific societies and professionals who have always dealt with this, recognized at national and international level. It is good to start with targeted interventions, constant sessions of cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy. It is necessary to consider the person and his/her needs as an adult and to think of a support that gives space to the possibility of an autonomous life and a job insertion. No less important is the support to be granted to families, with day hospital (day hospital) designed to be tailored. For these reasons, suitable legislative requirements are mandatory, ensuring support and economic sustainability for caregivers and patients. All this implies the necessary and adequate training of the professional figures involved, from the doctor, to the specialist in psychiatry, from the staff who already work in the contexts of mental health departments, to the teachers of support during the years of school education. On the subject of support teachers, I would like to recall a beautiful letter published yesterday by "La Stampa" in Turin, on behalf of the director of the school of Cottolengo: I read the notice of the Municipality of Turin and in other cities for the disability manager, obliged to put it but once again a free assignment useful only to show an obligation. Once again, yes! Like a Disability Minister without a wallet, it's only useful to place chairs. Once again, like the support teachers who can have a deep professionalism but also a preparation absolutely averted from the handicap, but then they are called to help in the most delicate period of their lives our boys and our girls in their development. Useful at placing jobs. Once again, it is useful to get rid of the conscience to say "Fatto" (Fatto), a word that we all too often hear now. We hope - and I hope - that good results will be possible: the secret is in courage, confidence, competence, seriousness, in the will we are called today, making important decisions for the future of so many people and families who ask us to do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u95	I call Senator Sileri to explain motion No 83.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those present for the opportunity to speak of autism; to speak and then to do so. Autism: a term that is dear to all of us, that evokes multiple feelings. A serious disturbance of neurodevelopment, characterized by an early onset of difficulties in mutual interaction and social communication, associated with repetitive and restricted behaviors and interests. The scientific position shared at international level is clear and considers autism a behavioral syndrome, biologically determined, early, with onset in the first three years, to which several factors contribute, environmental and genetic. The variability of this behavioural syndrome requires specific, dedicated and complex diagnostic, therapeutic and social assistance interventions. Our motion is based on Law No 134 of 2015, approved during the previous legislature, which provides for interventions aimed at ensuring the protection of health, the improvement of living conditions and the inclusion in social life of people with autistic spectrum disorders, in accordance with the resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2012 on the needs of people with autism. The law also provides for the updating by the Higher Institute of Health of guidelines on the treatment of autistic spectrum disorders at all ages of life, based on the evolution of physiological and therapeutic knowledge derived from scientific literature and national and international good practices. Subsequently, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers dated 12 January 2017 concerning the updating of the essential levels of assistance, transposed, in Article 60, the provisions of Law No 134 of 2015, providing moreover that the National Health Service guarantees to people with autistic spectrum disorders specific performances of early diagnosis, treatment and individualized treatment, through the use of methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence. In the decree, autism is included in the list identified in Annex 8, referred to in Article 53, which guarantees the right to exemption from the health ticket for persons suffering from chronic and disabling diseases. More specifically, autistic disorder is referred to as psychosis conditions for which Annex 8 contains a list of health services (including psychotherapeutic visits and sessions, dosages of drugs, clinical examinations and so on) exempt from participation at the cost of the subjects concerned. On 10 May 2018, the Unified Conference approved the understanding on the document updating the guidelines for the promotion and improvement of the quality and appropriateness of care interventions in autistic spectrum disorders. According to this document, the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the Interregional Mental Health Technical Group, conducted an assessment of the transposition of the previous guidelines (in 2012), from which it emerged a different degree of transposition and different implementations at regional and local level. Unfortunately, these experiences - it is emphasized - are not yet uniformly diffused in the national territory, generating inequality of approach to the management of the needs of people with autistic spectrum. Precisely as a result of the modest transposition of the 2012 guidelines, the agreement reaffirms the provisions of Article 4 of the aforementioned Law No 134 of 2015, namely that the implementation of the guidelines, as updated, constitutes compliance with the Standing Committee for the Verification of LEAs, but including in the same document the financial invariance according to which the implementation of the agreement is carried out within the limits of the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation and in any case without new or greater burdens for public finance. In September 2018, the Higher Institute of Health officialized the objective of drawing up guidelines on autistic spectrum disturbance aimed at supporting health professionals in defining the most appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic path and to create a network of support and assistance for family members and caregivers in the integrated take-up of the child, which must involve the whole life context (family, school, places of aggregation, social and social services), in order to offer a set of targeted responses to specific individual needs of an enabling and educational nature and also ensure homogeneous levels of take-over and treatment throughout the national territory. In conclusion, with our motion we ask the Government: to activate itself for the establishment of a scientific and epidemiological network, also in connection with similar experiences in the European or international context, in order to promote studies and research aimed at collecting updated national prevalence data and to censor the good therapeutic and educational practices dedicated to it; to define, in implementation of the agreement agreed at the Unified Conference of 10 May 2018 in the context of the conclusion of the new Health Pact 2019-2021, an assessment system according to objective and measurable indicators of guaranteeing the timely fulfilment of the guidelines throughout the national territory, with respect to the strategic objective of our National Health Service, for the promotion and improvement of the quality and the appropriateness of the assistance interventions in the autistic spectrum disorders with a specific recognition of 0.5% of the major resources bound, to any consequent effect to the result of the prescribed monitoring of the Standing Committee for the verification of the delivery of LEAs, deducing the consistent forecasts in the aforementioned adoption, in the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. We also call for the development, through the Higher Institute of Health, of guidelines on the treatment of autistic spectrum disorders at all ages of life, in accordance with the provisions of Law No 134 of 2015 and Ministerial Decree 30 December 2016, not later than one year from the date of approval of this Guideline, with the obligation of compliance with the annual report to Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u97	I call Senator Binetti to explain motion No 98.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it seems to me that two beautiful pages are being written today: a history of medicine and a history of good politics. As for the history of medicine, I am pleased to think - and I must honestly say, honor to white hair - that when I started dealing with childhood neuropsychiatry, years ago, autism was considered a form of childhood schizophrenia. There was no possibility of measures, neither on the pharmacological level nor on the level of a reflection on behavior called educational, enabling, rehabilitation and therapeutic that could be taken. The fate of these children, and therefore the fate of their families, was frankly very, very difficult. If one thinks, then, that the heart of this pathology is the difficulty of communication, the difficulty of the relationship, one understands how precisely those who were in a more intense relationship, of greater proximity with this child - for example the mothers, the dads, the neighboring educators - suffered in this relationship and suffered that syndrome of inadequacy that added uncomfortable discomfort. We all know perfectly well how, when we don't feel confident in a relationship, we usually manage to behave in a manner that is not appropriate to the relationship itself, because we do not know how to get in touch with the person at that time. Well, I have to say that over fifty years - and I do not exaggerate by saying fifty years, because it was the beginning of the fifties when Sullivan defined autism as a form of child schizophrenia - a lot of things have changed, thanking God. Firstly, there is no longer any reason to talk about autism, but it is absolutely necessary to use a more flexible, more inclusive, more open to hope terminology. In fact, we talk about autisms or whatever we talk about autistic spectrum and we all have full awareness that in this autistic spectrum there are children whose level of disability is particularly relevant and there are children whose level of disability is frankly compatible with an almost normal lifestyle, they are so-called high-function autistic subjects. Yesterday, speaking together with many friends and many colleagues at the conference that took place in the Zuccari Hall in the Senate, I said how, at this moment, the most famous autistic subject in the world is the Swedish girl named Greta, the one who can speak to the UN, can speak to the European Parliament, manages to put on the road, to put on the road endless multitudes of peers, urging them all to problems as high and as important as the problem of climate, as the problem of the environment. We can be aware that from an autistic subject we can learn a lot, exactly how we can transfer into the relationship with an autistic subject all the humanity we are capable of, let me say all the humility we are capable of when, talking to a person, we must put ourselves absolutely on his level, we must listen to the needs of him, listen to the grammar of his emotions, pay attention to his fears and try somehow to avoid them. The written motion also arises from this awareness of complexity. Precisely because we know that autisms are not all the same, that the perspectives of elaboration, of lived and also therefore of the activative or rehabilitation interventions that there are with these children can be very different, we need to try to understand if there are tools that at birth allow to identify the diversity of autisms and the diversity of perspectives. I was very happy, in the previous legislature, to have been the rapporteur of the law on autism, also because for the first time we have drawn a composite picture that does not make more than 18 years that start point for which a boy comes out from the definition, diagnosis of autism, and enters into a generic and aspecific diagnosis of adult psychosis. Today we know that the autistic child, growing up, retains many of his difficulties, elaborates others, solves some of them. This also helps us to think a lot about the enabling rehabilitation models that we propose to these children. As long as our attention is all focused on the very small child, it is clear that the methods, let's call them so, more exquisitely trained, as for example the ABA can achieve short-term results, but if I take into consideration the autistic subject teenager or the young adult well different is the job that I have to do, quite different are the emphasis and attention that I have to put to his motivations, his needs and his curiosities. This is the beauty of having reconstituted this unity of the subject in the unity of diagnosis, because it allows us to rethink the methods that we have used so far to open ourselves to new perspectives that have, precisely in the freedom of the subject to express the potential and its abilities, everything that is truly in the head and heart not only of doctors, but of teachers, of families and also, at this moment, of good politics. From this point of view, the training courses and the masters that are done to follow these young people acquire a different thickness, because they must fall into a much wider and more articulated logic, but it is also particularly interesting to think about the measures that we must take today; they are no longer alone and exclusively those of childhood, even if - I insist - early interventions and the development of predictive modalities are extremely useful, but they are also interventions that look to the young adult, to the world of work, to the possibility for these adults to imagine as much as possible autonomous living spaces, where this - I insist - can be possible. The motion that we are presenting today shows a radical change of perspective: we no longer have the disease at the center of our attention, but we have managed to put the autistic subject at the center of our attention throughout his life. We take it into consideration as a very small, to accompany it until the end, not by chance there are also a series of references to Law No. 112 of 2016, on the after us. This logic that reconstructs the unity of the subject, in the complexity of the relationships and contexts in which it moves, constitutes for the entire history of medicine a very important point of development in order not to sometimes remain closed in that mechanism that makes diagnosis a kind of cast corset from which you can not get out. That of the autistic subject is an open diagnosis and can no longer generate in families that gloomy pessimism of the ""there is nothing to do": it is not true, there is always something more that can be done; maybe it will not be all we want to do, but there is always something more. It is in this positive logic, oriented to hope, but also, at the same time, to scientific research and scientifically founded documentation, that the attention to autistic subjects throughout their life and development presents us, that we today look to the Commission that we ask for to be established and to the possibility of going beyond the prejudices and mental rigidities that sometimes have an autistic taste, not of the autism of the subject and the patient, but of our autism. Sometimes it is we who show, in the stiffness of our relational models, some autistic traits. I spoke before a good page of history of medicine and an excellent page of history of politics, for working together, we confronted each other point by point and could count on all the support of the majority. I acknowledge that my colleagues in my Commission have been systematically open to registering all possible improvements so that the motion, which I hope will eventually be united, can also really express to the families of autistic subjects a response that we are all together with you. And this is perhaps the greatest satisfaction we can give to people who too often feel alone and too often feel at the center of a conflicting, competitive and divisive perspective. We are here today to say that this work can be done and can be done together. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u99	I call Senator Boldrini to explain motion No 106.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u100	Mr President, I too, like my colleagues who attended the World Autism Awareness Day yesterday, think it is important to talk about this syndrome today, because, as we have heard, the spectrum of autism is very broad and includes various syntomatologies. Yesterday in the Senate we saw a beautiful film produced by journalist Gianluca Nicoletti, which represents a glimpse of the reality lived by parents who have children with autistic spectrum disorders. It was really a film that touched the feelings of all of us and especially of the many students present in the Zuccari room, who realized what it means to be able to compare with companions who can be affected by this pathology. This is in order to combat the stigma of diversity and disability, so as not to alienate people who are different from us but to integrate them. In fact, we must understand the cultural paradigm, according to which disability does not mean not being able to do things, but it means not knowing how to do it and learning to do it differently, it means being able to have people with disabilities who are together with everyone else, in order to be able to implement a true integration. Today we are all discussing together and many of us have tabled motions in this regard, because we believe that we need uniformity of intent to put positive actions into practice to take care of people with this disease. Autism is considered a disorder of neurological development, which produces strong limitations in human relations, with a tendency to close - we saw it yesterday in the film - to obsessive maniacism and specialization, until it begins with heavy suffering and sometimes even unsustainable, by families above all. It is essential that the diagnosis is early, because this immediately succeeds in intervening on a situation that is addressed and it is mainly concerned with cognitive-behavioral therapies. As has also been said before, laws have already been enacted in the past legislature: one of all is Law No. 134 of 2015, approved by Parliament to ensure the protection of health, the improvement of living conditions and the inclusion in social life of people with autistic spectrum disturbance, in accordance with the resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations No. 82 of 12 December 2012, on the needs of people with autism. Subsequently, the subject was dealt with by other laws and in particular by the budget law: in fact, no funds were provided to support the aforementioned law, but in subsequent budget laws special funds were allocated for the care of subjects with autistic spectrum disturbance. So these are important data and I go on to say what has still been done, because it is right to quote it. In the essential performance levels (LEA), which were revised in 2015, it was established that in the National Health System, people with autistic spectrum disturbance should have been guaranteed specific early diagnosis performance, which is essential, treatment, treatment and detection, through the use of methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence. However, scientific research still needs to be funded, because it is still far from its objective. Many advanced researches have been carried out, but also the Italian Society of child neuropsychiatry, just two days ago, said that there is still need to do research because unfortunately autism is increasing: one in 77 children get sick of autism, this pathology has not stopped. There is therefore a need for research, which must be funded. I recall another important law passed in the previous legislature, no. 167 of 2016, which is intended to make compulsory, with the inclusion in the essential levels of assistance, the carrying out of neonatal screening for the early diagnosis of hereditary diseases, which was already provided for in article 1, paragraph 229, of the law of stability of 2014. As you can see, therefore, once again it is the prevention that comes to the aid of this pathology. I must say, however, that, despite the laws however promulgated, families still ask us to be helped today and yesterday's footage said it very clearly: many of these families remain alone, also because often there is an educational poverty within them that does not give the opportunity to ask for help and in particular the specific help they can have. This was very well said by a psychologist: many of them do not even know who to ask for the possibility of support, even just for the family allowance. Colleagues, as you can see, there is much to be done and we are here today to make specific commitments, specifically to help these families. In our motion - hoping that a single text can be reached too, we will see how compared to the various commitments - we have found heterogeneity in the application of laws in the different regions. I repeat this every time I speak in this House: unfortunately, there is heterogeneity in the application in the regions because the national health system is not unique: there are 21. This shows that not everyone can have the same opportunities, especially with regard to those regions that have fewer opportunities than projects that are important for the support of these people. Therefore, the problems are the same but the answers are different, as the educational-cultural contexts are different. We said that there is still a lot to do; of course, the autistic spectrum disorders have not always been treated in the most appropriate way and, despite some excellent realities that - we have to say - are present in our national territory, people with this disorder and their families often do not find adequate answers in the welfare system of our country. According to the above-mentioned Law No 134 of 2015, the National Health Service should guarantee to persons with autistic spectrum disorder the performance of early diagnosis, treatment and individualised treatment, because each person is a person in his/her own right, so he/she needs his/her own path, especially an individualised therapy and an individualised supplementary therapy, through the use of methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence. The early identification of autism, fundamental, must represent the first important challenge, because it gives the possibility of taking charge at an age in which the development processes can still be modified, so it is true that it is not cured by autism, but the conditions can be greatly improved if the personalized projects are followed over time. Hence the importance of following a person affected by the disorder throughout his life and that is why in our motion we mentioned the important so-called law after us. In fact, the biggest alarm launched yesterday by parents, who are now seen elderly, fragile and with little chance, is not knowing which other family to entrust their children still young (young people of twenty-thirty years). This is a serious problem that we need to hear, and that is why in our motion we are calling for an increase in funding to be guaranteed in the near future in order to support the law of after us. A law that, as we know, is struggling to take off in some regions, but that, I guarantee you, in many others is achieving wonderful results thanks to projects that have already started. We would like some measures, including the Commission that Senator Binetti has already mentioned, to be approved today, in this Senate, the day after World Autism Day. It would be a signal of fundamental political listening to these families. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]] 11:54 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u101	I declare the debate open. She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u102	Mr President, these days I am reading a book: the diary of a mother of two young women with autistic spectrum, which tells the first pages of the discovery of autism. The author remembers how, in the study of a pediatrician, for a visit to his first daughter, after many and various peripezie, the professional, in delivering her a letter for a neurologist, told her: It will be a mission. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, I think we must all feel that we have this mission, because we are like Marina and her daughters. Our mission is to support autistic people and their families, with an adequate public policy, through interventions that - it has been remembered - must necessarily be biopsychosocial and attentive to all the phases of life (as happens for each of us), for example that of adolescence, in which the effects of neurobiological disorder can be amplified fearfully. We need a school that can really accommodate the differences (even here, like all of us) with suitable educational programs and an integrated welfare, that can allow family members - especially women - to work and take care of their children (we hope to be able to carry out briefly the examination process of the bill on caregiver). It is also necessary to promote projects aimed at the occupational integration of persons with autistic spectrum, as stated in Law No 134 of 18 August 2015. I believe that it is essential to accept the proposal made yesterday by my colleague Mr Beginini, so that this Senate can also be a protagonist and receive some experiences (my colleague mentioned those of Mr Tortellante and Mr Pizzuut, but there are so many of them), so that we can also give visibility to the work integration experiences that can be replicated. I had the great honour of being the rapporteur of the so-called law on after us, which has the value of the autonomy of people with disabilities and is therefore very beautiful. We must make this law live with the preparation of projects that start from "during us" and that establish future and autonomy, not only when the parents are ahead over the years or there is a lack of support, to assure the children of the Moon (so defines them a beautiful project of the CNR, which years ago followed a marathon in the Svalbard Islands and still shoots a beautiful film) life and future, as well as the possibility of making integrated projects. This is a cultural transition that all of us - politicians, families, associations, public and private social workers - must undertake. For this reason, it is important to set up a Parliamentary Commission on these issues, so that, as has just been mentioned, the laws adopted so far (in the first place, Law No 134 of 18 August 2015 and Law No 112 of 22 June 2016) do not remain cathedrals in the desert, but are applied in all regions and throughout the national territory, the available resources are used for projects that are truly integrated and, as rightly requested in the Democratic Party's motion, additional resources are allocated to finance, in particular, the implementation of the so-called Act on the After Us. The proposed Commission will have to carry out monitoring and verification, with the aim of giving serenity to people and their families. This is our great mission. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, autistic spectrum disorders can be considered as a behavioural syndrome, with onset in the first three years of life, to which both genetic and environmental factors contribute. The characteristic symptoms of autism are the difficulty of establishing interactions with peers and the altered development of social skills. The primary aim of recovery therapy is to maximise the independence and quality of life of the subject, mitigating as much as possible the main characteristics of the disorder, promoting development and learning, stimulating socialization and - above all - providing information and support to families. All this is achieved by appropriate educational, behavioral and rehabilitation interventions. Law No 134 of 2015 laying down provisions on the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of persons with autistic spectrum disorders and family care, provides that the National Health Service provides specific benefits for early diagnosis, individualised care and treatment, the list of health services (visits, psychomotor sessions and speech therapy, dosage of drugs) exempt from participation in expenditure. It is unanimously recognised that the policy guidelines are implemented in an uneven manner throughout the national territory - this is the real problem - generating regional and local differences, with sometimes marked disparities, of approach to the management of the needs of subjects with autistic spectrum. This is in view of the fact that, as scientifically demonstrated, the early diagnosis and multidisciplinary therapeutic intervention takes on a fundamental value to achieve the best results in recovering the psychosensory abilities and activities of these patients. In all Italian regions, but especially in the southern regions, there is a particular criticality regarding the waiting times of accredited centres for the rehabilitation of neuropsychomotor and sensory activation and rehabilitation of these small ones with autistic spectrum, which are found to be particularly long and, often, over a year. All this entails, as a logical consequence for families, a single possibility: to rely on private structures with considerable economic increase, considering the almost daily frequency and the long duration of such treatments. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, make a joint effort, beyond the political groups, to achieve greater uniformity throughout the national territory and to improve the quality and appropriateness of welfare interventions, with the continued monitoring of the Standing Committee for the Verification of Distributors of the Essential Levels of Assistance. We must give concrete and immediate answers, restoring to politics the lost credibility and in this both the Regions, with the checks on the waiting lists and the quality of the services provided, and the Ministry, with initiatives of their own competence, will have to do their part, in order to allow free and rapid access to these centers, improving the actual chances of recovery of these small patients and giving them the possibility of a better future. Autistic children and autistic people reach out to us, we do not remain indifferent. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u105	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u106	Mr President, it was 2008 when the United Nations General Assembly decided to set up the World Day of Autism Awareness. Why is the word "awareness" contained in the name of the institution of this day? Not by chance, because awareness is the first step to counter care. When we look at a child or a boy with autistic disorders, we often have our pre-interpretation ready, starting from the stereotype that we have of him even without knowing him and we cannot see a human existence that slips away in silence, victim of the obvious look, of the obviousness that, in fact, does not see. Much has been done in recent years, but much still needs to be done to improve the quality of services, to combat stereotypes, to combat discrimination and the family isolation of people. It is about 600,000 in Italy who suffer from this disorder, at least those diagnosed, because many still remain invisible. It ignores how many and what obstacles they face to start living every day. We cannot imagine how difficult it is to break exclusion or indifference; how heavy the emotional fatigue of caregiver relationships is. In the last parliamentary term we passed a law, already mentioned, on the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of people with autistic spectrum disorders and assistance to families. A law that represented a great step of civilization. Well, now we really need to ensure that the rights do not just remain on paper, but are concrete, real and widespread and that they begin and continue to walk. For the first time, the various aspects concerning the inclusion of diagnosis, treatment and personalized treatment in the LEA have been addressed, for the improvement of the living conditions of people with autism even in adulthood, when they arrive eighteen years. The problem in fact remains and sometimes becomes more acute, with families distressed at the thought of those who will take care of their children when the parents themselves will grow old or have to leave them. To who? Who are they gonna leave them to? Who will take care of them? For this reason the cognitive-behavioral educational measures, biological, genetic and social research, have been placed within a larger design, which has seen the creation of the highest funding ever allocated to a fund for non-self-sufficiency, and the so-called law of the "after us," which is, however, a law that begins in the "during us." In order for this law to begin, we need two priorities to be pursued, on which, in my opinion, we must insist. The first is to allow all people with autistic spectrum disturbance to develop their own life plan, promoting the autonomy of every human being and his right to participate effectively in life, to plan a future, not to resign to the given situation, even when it may appear unchangeable. Every child or adult boy, in fact, has within himself margins of unpredictability, surprises that can emerge from the quality of the relationships of those who put themselves at stake with these apparently distant people, apparently closed, with whom it is difficult to communicate. I would like to invite you to think about the miracle done by Greta, a teenager with Asperger's syndrome, who mobilized a world of teenagers. The second priority concerns families, who are often alone, and in particular mothers, because unfortunately the percentage of separations in the presence of children with disabilities is very high. The answer must be built, then, by contrasting isolation, building community welfare, feeding mutual help relations, solidarity between families in belonging to social co-responsibility. These statements are implied by a welfare that is not limited to the provision of mere monetary subsidies, but that invests on the ability of all people to promote the expansion of an equal existential dignity, considering the differences not a disvalue to discriminate but a resource to be valued for the community. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u107	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for effective sentences, quotations from books, from Saints and writers, when the subject is the hope and smile of a sick person, all the more so if a child. Nor is there any proportion between what is given by them and what we can do for them. After so many laws, resolutions and treaties we have grown in recognition and in the way we deal with autism and autistic spectrum disorders. These are neurodevelopment disorders, that is linked to an abnormal brain maturation, determined biologically. This is a condition unfortunately far from rare; in fact, according to a statistics made in 2014 in America, it is estimated that it affects one child out of 59. There is a continuous increase over the years, an increase without differences of ethnicity and social conditions. In Italy, for primary school pupils, it goes from 1.7 percent of the years 1989-1990 to 3.4 percent of the years 2017-2018. Although you get to your diagnosis more and more early, the real challenge is your treatment. The treatment is precisely the subject of this motion: the need for laws and guidelines derives from jackals, sometimes even involuntary, methodical and sanitary. Orienting in search of the best solution is not an easy task and especially not when parents are alone and disoriented. On 5 February 1992, the framework law No 104 for assistance, social integration and the rights of persons with disabilities was addressed. This law protects the rights of people with disabilities and over time it has been improved, until Legislative Decree no. 66 of 13 April 2017, in which are also stated autistic disabled people among those entitled. At the same time, and we confirm its need, there is the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly of 12 December 2012, which provides for interventions aimed at ensuring the protection of health, the improvement of living conditions and the inclusion in social life of people with autistic spectrum disorders. This resolution was transposed by Law No 134 of 18 August 2015. Subsequently, with the law of 28 December 2015 n. 208, article 1, paragraph 401, a fund was established for the care of subjects with autistic spectrum disorders, with a budget of 5 million euros. With the law of 27 December 2017 n. 205, article 1, paragraph 455, this fund is increased by an additional 5 million for each year 2019 and 2020. The purpose of this motion is to fully implement Law No. 134 of 2015. The unified conference with the Ministry of Health and the GISM (Technical Interregional Mental Health Group) on 10 May 2018 assessed and criticized the different transposition, implementation and treatment, at regional and local level, of autism disorders and updated the guidelines for the promotion and improvement of the quality and appropriateness of care interventions. We therefore provide EUR 5 million more to increase the fight against autism with a method and criterion. We ask and hope that the money will be distributed to projects that are economically controlled and that the Fund will be used according to objective and measurable indicators guaranteeing the timely implementation of the guidelines. We are asking for commitment and control, because the uneven approach and management of the data of the experiences and methods that have emerged are nothing more than a weakness against a disorder, that of autism, unfortunately well organized. In this motion, transposed what was granted in September 2018 by the Higher Institute of Health, it is recalled to structure the joint guidelines and a proper network that can stem the strength due to the still unknown nature of autism. We call for coordination between a scientific, epidemiological, information and historical and statistical census network, an educational and therapeutic network, a school and social health network, a network for the census of good therapeutic and educational practices, a network for the provision and economic control of funds, a network for promotion, planning and coordination, a network for the establishment of a regional, national and international register. Every day is the day in this House, so today is the day to make each of us a close knot of these networks of intent. A lot is done in life, and still little has been done. We realized that autism manifests itself within the first three years of life and especially for boys. He's a moving, helpless, adorable person. A neurodevelopment disorder with certainly neurobiological, constitutional and psycho-environmental causes acquired: a disorder on which so much has been done, but much still to be done. A disease that puts a strain on health care workers, school assistants and especially families. Families who teach us to bless life, reminding us that the worst defeat is discouragement: those families that remind us that the greatest gift is a child. With motion No 83 we are committed not to leave them alone. We also ask the Government not to let them go with their concern, with the tarlo of the "after us" what will happen to our children. Since 1985 the ANGSA (National Autistic Parents Association) has asked us to brighten up their hopes, celebrating the World Day of Awareness on Autism on 2 April, promoting research and combating discrimination and isolation of sick people. And today, as yesterday and as tomorrow, we are coloring our light with blue by approving in this House also motion No 83. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u109	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u110	Mr President, I do not want to add concepts which the medical senators who have spoken in this House have already authoritatively clarified very well. I would like to celebrate the Day on Autism with a positive news and telling a virtuous example of excellence that exists on our national territory, because addressing the problem can be addressed. Today we can of course vote on the motions presented, we can set up the special Commission, but much more can be done: we can take an example from the territories, which have moved and have taken inspiration from the framework laws, from the United Nations regulations, from the 2015 law, from the LEAs and national protocols, to set up a team of work on the territories, which, acting as a basis for health companies, working with research centres, universities, schools, the private social and family associations, have been able to create centres of true excellence. Not a single center, but a territory that can take charge of children and people with autism. Some data from the ASDEU dossier, which the European Commission has funded, tell us that one out of 77 children suffers from autism. We must therefore realise that the phenomenon is broad and must be dealt with in a collegial way. For this reason, the university has a fundamental role: the University of Trento and the CIMAC (Centro interdipartementale mente/cervello) have collaborated to understand and study new strands of in-depth study in neurosciences. It has been understood that the inattention to social interactions is due to the low density of nerve fibers in the mesolimbic pathway; it has been understood that the hypersensitivity to touch is due to a somatosensory cortex in deficit. It has been understood, on the basis of this research, that it is necessary to intervene very soon, in a diagnostic way, even on newborn children. This is the key that will lead us to have people who can by method decrease the frequency and severity of symptoms. From this point of view training is very important and in this area the university does not simply form neuroscientists, but social workers, teachers who at school are able, as happens in this reality, to integrate children suffering from autism into ordinary classes. There is also a private social that can finance and make available the best technologies. There is a multisensory room, one of the first experiments in Italy, which makes children live a three-dimensional reality, working on chromotherapy and imagination, thus improving behaviors and communication capacity. There are, therefore, virtuous examples, we learn from them. Today we are voting in favour of the motions, but we are starting from a consolidated one that is there, it is solid and it is not just rhetoric, because we want concreteness and we want to ensure that Italy takes care of the most difficult people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Marzio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everything has already been said about the clinical aspects of autism, a heterogeneous set of neurodevelopment disorders, characterized by an early onset of difficulties in mutual interaction and social communication associated with repetitive and restricted behaviors and interests. It is, in practice, the coexistence of a socio-communicative disorder and stereotyped behaviors. Autism is considered a behavioral syndrome associated with a disorder of the brain and mind that compromises and affects the modalities of social action and interaction, communication and learning, which begins in the first three years of life and is destined to last for the entire existence; its causes are unknown, but in its determinism play an important role in etiopathic and environmental factors. The symptoms are characterized by extremely composite symptoms including, among other things, reduced and delayed language skills, difficulty to correlate with the external environment, to interact with others, to maintain eye contact with the interlocutor, narrowness of interests, compulsion to repeat, stereotyped verbal behaviors and expressions, obsessive/compulsive conducts of sorting and alignment of objects. It is, therefore, a syntomatological procession that often makes small patients appear as if they were confined in their own world, separated from the surrounding and impenetrable reality, foreign and waterproof to the sharing of emotions and feelings, the distressing feeling of impossibility of communication with which constitutes a reason for feelings of despairing impotence on the part of parents and generates an impression of irremediable emotional separation, not unlike the one that connotes the relationships with patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease, but with the aggression of the childhood age of those who are affected and the feeling of ineffectiveness of the therapeutic treatments instituted. It is a serious and seemingly ineminable clinical picture which in the past has even resulted, by Dr Hans Asperger, in the eponym of the syndrome described by him in 1938, in the internment of many of these patients, judged impossible to educate, at the infamous Am Spiegelgrund center, where many of them found death in the context of eugenics projects at that time in high places. The indeterminability of the etiopatogenesis of such a disabling syndrome complex can also justify the compulsive research by the families of patients affected by it of any cause to be able to attribute responsibility for what is happening, hesitated in recent years in irrational manifestations of demagogic culpation of the vaccine practice, on the basis of the uncritical acceptance of the mystifying theory formulated in a 1998 research, which was then false, hypothesizing its correlation with the vaccine MMR (morbillo, rubella, varicella), which has been refuted by all subsequent scientific studies from which the non-susistence of any link with both vaccines and with some of their ingredients has emerged. Although standardized protocols are currently not available for the treatment of autistic spectrum disorder, there are, however, documented treatments to increase the neuropsychic development capacity of the affected children and to offer them the possibility to acquire new skills, the quality of which, however, appears to be associated substantially with the early implementation of the interventions and their personalization in relation to the specific characteristics of the individual patient. The treatment, therefore, which is incarnate on the use of cognitive behavioral therapies of communication and skill training, cannot be based on mere diagnostic definition, but must be prepared in relation to the individual profile of the child in personalized form and must take due account of its criticalities and strengths, using a descriptive diagnostic approach, indicating clinical characteristics and level of severity of symptoms and associated verbal cognitive abilities. On the national territory there is great diversity in the correct approach to the treatment of these patients; an approach that is necessarily based on trusting accredited centres, which are able to address the problem concretely, but also on a school integration in which the school returns to play its role as a primary socialization agency and knows how to be inclusive. The conclusion, therefore, is that, in order for the problem to be addressed in practice, it is necessary to restore dignity to the public school system, which must be able to accommodate these patients in an appropriate manner. The national health system must also be given back its role, since it must be able to offer these patients the answers they expect, without having to resort to private individuals; a public health system that is put back at the centre of the system, against all those who intend to mercenize health in order to open up space for private individuals. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u113	The debate is closed. I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, signed by the signatories to motions no. 42 (text 2), 83, 98 and 106, which were subsequently withdrawn. The text of the agenda, which is intended to be presented, has been printed and distributed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u114	Mr President, I welcome the agenda for the first part. On the second part, since it is addressed to the Senate, I shall of course return to the deliberations of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u115	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u118	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, my speech will be a brief explanation of vote, partly because the Group for the Autonomies could not fail to express its views on such an important subject, which affects a large number of families in our country. As far as autism is concerned, we know - and it has already been said in detail in the previous speeches - that this is a condition, a very complicated pathology. In fact, on the latest version of DSM (diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders) it was thought to change its diction and to define it as a spectrum of behaviors, precisely because it is so complicated that, both from the temporal point of view and the intensity of the symptoms, it develops during life in a very inconstant way, putting in considerable difficulty the patients themselves, but also the families and the institutions. We know that this is a condition on which the etiopathogenesis is still little known and on which it is known that unfortunately there is no cure, as is normally understood, with drugs. There are behavioral, recreational interventions that somehow make patients comfortable and thus improve their condition. But it is clear that we are still far from a resolution of this psycho-neurological disorder. I wanted to say we're not in the year zero, and I think it's been pointed out a little by everyone. The last parliamentary term, from this point of view, was fruitful because it allowed us to adopt a framework law on autism and to approve other important initiatives such as the one on caregivers and the so-called after us, which is a fundamental aspect. In fact, more and more there is the problem of how to manage and care for these adults when their family and parents are no longer there. I defend and always speak well of the 2001 amendment of Title V of the Constitution, because it allowed the Regions to start a whole series of specific measures. We know how the administrative level of the regions is that, from a practical point of view, the initiatives for families are being carried out. This change in Title V allowed, in the regions that were able to seize this opportunity, to develop a whole series of initiatives on the territories: day centres, centres to institutionalize the most serious cases; support teachers; in essence a whole series of initiatives to meet families. If there is a commitment to be made by this House, it is to support the regions and to make it possible to standardise interventions throughout the national territory, especially those of the most advanced quality, in my opinion comparable to those of the welfare of Northern Europe. From this point of view, I believe that we must share what is present in all the motions, so I very much appreciate that they have been put together on a single agenda in this House. I also hope that the special Commission, which is called upon to work in a very concrete way, will try to prick the Government and in particular the Regions and the Conference of the Regions, in order to carry forward, in the pockets of territory where there are still very few interventions, concrete initiatives. I believe that families and people affected by this important disorder need very concrete initiatives. Last but not least, in order to implement the initiatives, we need the funds, so I think it is important above all to take this aspect into account. If quality initiatives are to be pursued, we must have the courage to provide new resources. For these reasons, I strongly support the Group's vote for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are going to vote in favour of the agenda and I must say that it was a very important signal that the motions tabled on an agenda were unified, all of which are broadly acceptable in their various points and also in their diversity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last parliamentary term a great step has been taken with the adoption of Law No 134 in 2015, which in our legal system represented and represents not only a step forward, but a great point of reference. The problem is that four years have passed and, as always, we are very good at making good laws, but then there is a difficulty, evidently endemic to the country, to proceed quickly in the implementation. So much so that the novelties contained in Law No. 134 of 2015, which I consider really very important and innovative because for the first time considered in a unitary way the entire life project of the autistic subject, intervened mainly at the time of the achievement of the greater age. We have then been a little behind with the implementation of this law because the new guidelines that the Higher Institute of Health is preparing have not yet been published, and are in the process of being drawn up. This commitment to fine-tuning the preparation and therefore finally to publish these guidelines is contained and also included on the agenda presented. It's been, I repeat, exactly four years. Certainly there was also the result of last year's unified conference, which in the new health pact had taken a further step forward on the essential levels of assistance, but not only are we still very far from a more homogeneous approach among the regions but we are also far behind data that are increasingly alarming. I do not mean that there is an epidemic of autism, but certainly the diagnosis is more early and the detection systems are much more active, thanks to the many advances made since the late 1990s to the present day, make the number increase. The numbers are very alarming: we are talking about 500,000 subjects, and therefore 500,000 families, and we must do quickly and well first of all in the field of research. It is important that the system of a European scientific network continues and is increasingly strengthened and therefore, from this point of view, the National Observatory for Autism must also be strengthened. Research is fundamental because, as we said before, even if we talk very little about it, at least from the data in our possession it emerges that there can certainly be genetic causes, but also the influence of environmental factors. Very important studies, recently published (and not only recently because we are talking about studies started, for example, by the University of California in 2003), provide us with data on environmental factors that are certainly very concerned. In this regard, scientific research must be carried out, which is never enough, in order to better investigate and clarify the diagnosis and, at the same time, also for measures of an enabling and rehabilitation type. Now, we have another issue that we had begun to address in the past legislature, in which the so-called "after-us" law was also passed, No. 112 of 2016. I am quoting you because up to now all the weight is on families and only partially the health system and the social health system have taken care of these problems. This doesn't have to happen anymore. Anyone who has had contact with the Association and the parents knows that the biggest problem and the questions put to the institutions are about what will happen when they are no longer in charge of it. I would therefore like to focus on the other painful point, which unfortunately concerns economic resources. The reference to the updating of the Essential levels of assistance (LEA) in the unified State-Regions Conference has once again prescribed the invariance of expenditure. This means that even if there are no adequate resources in this field, all the weight from the material and also psychological point of view remains absolutely and only on the families, who risk remaining the only form of welfare. Therefore, the question of economic resources is absolutely crucial. Then there is another decisive issue, the one concerning caregivers; in the financial maneuver of the last parliamentary term we had begun to introduce some small measures also with regard to caregivers. On this issue too, we must have the determination to move forward and put all initiatives in place from a regulatory and economic point of view, because the social welfare side and support for families are crucial. Equally crucial is support for all processes of social inclusion of people with autism. I therefore agree with the G1 agenda, which relates to the need to promote work integration projects and all projects that go towards social inclusion. A special Commission should also be set up. Even more necessary, however, is the commitment by the Government to finally speed up the adoption of the guidelines provided for in Law No 134 of 2015 and, at the same time, there are the resources necessary to cope with the health and social assistance services. For all these reasons, I confirm our strong vote on the G1 agenda, which has unified the motions outlined above. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u122	We greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Quinto Ennio," of the beautiful Gallipoli, in the province of Lecce. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u125	BINI (PD). Mr President, I do not want to go back to many of the issues that have been well highlighted by colleagues in this House about disorder and disease and what we know from a scientific point of view about it. I think that today we are called to try to give a more concrete and effective response to the many families who are in a position to have a child who has this type of disorder. As we read and know from the many stories of the people we know and from those who have experienced similar events, the discovery of the illness of a child and a disorder of this type, at first it causes the world to collapse on the parent, it shows everything black, it makes you think you feel isolated, it makes you look for all the information you can have to understand what you are going to encounter. Then, all of a sudden, life turns. On the one hand it certainly feels the complication that this brings, on the other hand, the wealth that this gives: the richness of having a special son or daughter, the richness of having a mission, as someone said before, the richness of having the opportunity to look for new ways to get in touch and in communication, to discover new languages and to interpret what a son or daughter has to say to you and maybe often cannot say with words. I believe that politics and the institutions must take care of all this. Often we are led, not out of disinterest, to take care of those who seek us, of those who submit to us a need or a problem and many times we tend perhaps to underestimate those who are quieter, those who have no voice to shout their difficulties, those who may be so uncomfortable that they do not even have the strength to look for someone. That is what we must take care of, it is to these people and these families that we must make our closeness to words felt not simply, but a concrete closeness, that makes their lives a little easier and that these boys and these girls can be citizens to all intents and can achieve their autonomy in the widest possible way. We're talking about different kids, but we're all different. [[Applause from Senator Rampi]] Each of us has qualities, defects, characteristics or qualities different from others, but each of us has, at the same time, dreams and feelings. Often and willingly when we deal with someone who has a disorder and a pathology we think about dealing only with concrete needs (nourishment, administration of medicines or cleanliness), but in fact we must succeed in ensuring that these people reach the highest degree of autonomy, allowing them to go beyond the primary needs they encounter in their lives. I therefore believe that this is the point of the agenda and I am happy and proud of the work done by our colleagues and of the fact that we have come to a unified drafting. Much has been said and much has already been done at the legislative level, even in recent years, but much still needs to be done: we need to bring the guidelines to full implementation and we need to update the LEAs, we need to proceed to ensure that research, which has not yet achieved all the desired results in this field, can progress more effectively, we need to ensure that the information system is able to provide information in a widespread and transparent way to all. That is why the agenda calls for the establishment of a special Commission, not to create a further unnecessary body, but precisely with the aim of achieving these aims, which I have tried, certainly not in an effective way as I would have liked, to list. The mechanism of our motion was certainly stronger because there was a clear commitment to setting up the Commission. In the mediation that has been found, however, there is the commitment to this. At this point - since the Government has returned to the House, as it is right that it is because Parliament decides on the parliamentary committees - it is up to us alone; therefore, our wish is that this Commission really be set up, which, with the clear tasks listed here, can have as its sole objective the centrality of the individual, the centrality of those families and of the boys and girls who suffer from this disorder, so that their lives may be better. Only in this way will we feel that we have made a positive and effective contribution as institutional representatives. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u128	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the autistic spectrum is not a disease but a neuro-biodiversity, an underrated spectrum when not mocked. I remind the Assembly of the episode of a well-known comedian, who then gave himself to politics - but who fortunately is returning to his old activity - to whom President Mattarella rightly replied, putting at his side, during the speech at the end of the year, a picture made by boys of a center for autistic Verona. Autism is an epidemic without being a disease: it is a disability without being a disease, although in some cases it is completely disabling. The numbers of the unborn in the spectrum impress: to date it is a national emergency and President Trump himself, for example, has not hesitated to call it an epidemic, although it is not a disease, and this makes the idea of its spread and its numbers. The most frightening thing is the unpreparedness of our communities to integrate these children and support their families. We must constantly engage on this issue because, although now scientifically cleared and addressed, autism does not have the right attention in the National Health Service and social services. ASLs recognize only speech therapy and psychomotority, which, in most cases, are absolutely not effective. Some regions - receiving the guidelines of the Higher Institute of Health - are legislated to include structured behavioral and psychological therapies (Aba, Denver, Teacch) in the LEAs, first of all because they are the most required, as they are most effective, and secondly because they have really prohibitive costs. Several judgments have recently also taken place which have condemned ASLs to pay for these models which they do not recognise. What is needed is a framework law that puts all public structures in a position to take charge of these children, at all ages, and give a little serenity to their families. The fundamental steps, in our opinion, are: early diagnosis (which requires the specific training of pediatricians and support teachers); the so-called during us (so the everyday life of these children, boys and adults), and, of course, a worthy application of after us. Spectrum disorders are mild to very serious; so some have only behavioral stereotypes, repetitive problems or rigidities, others are not verbal and will never be autonomous even in the primary needs. The mothers and dads of these children are real heroes: they distangle between long waits for diagnosis and certification and the total void that follows, because, in fact, public health care takes care of them little and badly. Most parents start researching and bring their son or children (because, unfortunately, it also happens that twins or more brothers are in the same spectrum) up and down Italy by the specialist who on some forums has been indicated to them. And if the civilization of a nation is recognized by the ability to protect and support the weakest and most fragile, we, unfortunately, dear colleagues, are still very far behind. As always in these cases there are beautiful realities run by associations, or directly by parents who really help these families and their children, but they are few and with the usual huge and insurmountable economic obstacle. Autism is neither contagious nor mortal, but it is a tragedy that is undervalued. For these reasons, Brothers of Italy announces their vote in favour. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u131	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the years there have been several regulatory interventions to which reference has to be made when it comes to the problem of the autistic spectrum, starting with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 23 April 2008, until Law No 134 of 18 August 2015, followed by Law No 112 of 22 June 2016, and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 12 January 2017. The increase in cases of autistic spectrum disturbance observed in the last decade, however, requires a conscious attitude leading as soon as possible to a rapid and profound process of reorganization of services, in the first instance of health services, to provide an early diagnosis, a correct diagnostic framework and support to families, facilitating the integration and improvement of the quality of life of the affected people. Knowing needs is essential to plan good support, with adequate health policies and educational and social resources to support children and families who daily face this pathology. Law No 134 of 18 August 2015 focuses on interventions aimed at ensuring the protection of health, the improvement of living conditions and the inclusion in the social life of people, alongside diagnostic and rehabilitation aspects. This is certainly a sign of an increased awareness of the disorder in the community and an improvement in the level of understanding of the impact of this problem in society. The agenda that we are voting on today contains important commitments, to which the Government will certainly follow. I would like to draw attention to one of them in particular. As often happens when it comes to health disorders, the focus is on the affected subject and the family - in this case, the parents - goes into the background. An important, unique, sought and desired moment becomes a difficult path, full of suffering and often of loneliness. From the most recent studies on the ways of taking charge of autism it emerges that the needs expressed are not only those related to the disability experienced in the first person, but also those of the entire family, which is constantly engaged on the side of care, education and socialization, exposing itself to the risk of living a condition of social isolation. Parents, burdened by the constant weight of the care commitment, express the need to cut out space for themselves and recover moments to dedicate to themselves, to the relationship of couple and to the relationship with the other children. There are still few opportunities dedicated to this specific need and the management of the leisure time of children and children with disabilities in the area of the autistic spectrum often falls only on the family. The awareness of the complexity of the phenomenon of autism, with all its repercussions on the keeping of the family and social fabric in which it is located, requires an important investment action by the institutions of the territory, in close liaison with the associations of the family. The family is the first social environment in which the autistic child grows and in which we are committed to pursuing the goal of integration, also through activities of support and training of parents. Helping the autistic child develop his/her skills and interests in the home environment is the first step to sustain his/her growth path and is, at the same time, the first goal on which to aim to improve the quality of life of his/her own and of the whole family. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Family support and parental training, through educational pathways, helps manage stress levels, develop better coping mechanisms, which in turn allow a healthier and more controlled home environment. The well-being of the child and his/her education are essential to the well-being of the family in which he/she is included. I would like to bring to the attention of all of you the project that was intended to be carried out at the socio-sanitary district of Pieve di Soligo, of the company ULSS n. 2 Trevisian brand called "The time earned". As mayors we wondered if, beyond clinical and health support to the subject suffering from autistic disorder, we could support families so that they did not feel alone in the care of children and children so special and if it could be created around the parents an effective support network, a new form of social welfare that saw the administrations, family associations, the health company, the productive realities united in the construction of a project that put at the center the families that inside these children. The idea received by all 28 municipalities of the district and the health company has seen the involvement of the Associations ANFFAS Left Piave, ANGSA Treviso, Parents "Our family," the support of the Foundation of community of the Left Piave, the support of the Bank of Marca and the Veneto Region. The project has set itself as a general objective to promote the social inclusion of people with autism and their families in the community. In particular, on the one hand, it was intended to offer families a time of relief, understood as a time earned to recover a family relationship, to experience a gradual relational independence of the bond between parents and children, to counter the feeling of loneliness of families, on the other hand, it was intended to offer a time of preparation for the young generations taking every possible opportunity of learning and integration through the consolidation of a system of collaborations with youth volunteering, school, public and private services of the territory. Several proposals have been planned for families: free afternoons aimed at parents and children aged five to eleven, with the aim of offering families opportunities for relief and children play afternoons to develop skills useful for growth; educational paths for families, always aimed at parents of children aged five to eleven, with the aim of helping and managing difficulties and promoting a more serene home environment; afternoons and weekends for children aged eighteen and up to promote autonomy and interpersonal relationships; the activation and preparation of new volunteers to support actions supported by the project. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] An experience that all the actors involved have undertaken to carry out so that these become structured actions and not commercial interventions, to give a concrete response to families and to create a model that can be replicated in the territory. In anticipating the favorable vote of the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I conclude by saying that all the commitments contained in the agenda are fundamental objectives to ensure the best take charge of people with autistic spectrum disturbance and I am sure that the Government will be able to reach them as soon as possible. However, I hope that families will be increasingly put at the centre of the various interventions to make these mothers and dads feel less alone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u134	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia has today put to this House a very important issue, which should find the right place on the agenda of the Commission. We believe that it is necessary to give answers to the problems experienced by those with autistic spectrum disorders and also to give answers to their families, in order to give them the attention they deserve in the political debate and in the work of the institutions. Policymaking should, first of all, be a mission in support of the weakest and most vulnerable in society. Less propaganda and more substance, therefore, is the effort we ask the Government and the majority to support those who are most fragile. Forza Italia believes that it is the duty of all of us to work to guarantee them a higher quality of life. Autistic spectrum disorders are one of the main causes of child disability. This is a permanent condition for which there are, however, supportive rehabilitation treatments that allow to obtain important results. If action is taken, then, much can be done in a timely way to improve the quality of life of autistic subjects and their families, who are many. The life of these families is marked forever by this form of disability: psychologically marked but also materially, as the family, in fact, is the true, only form of welfare on which the weight of the fragility of the children that we take care of weighs. Psychological burdens and economic burdens, I repeat, all too often dealt with in complete loneliness, also because disability allowances are too small and still completely insufficient to lead a dignified and self-determined life. In this regard, removing the amount of the disability allowance to obtain citizenship income from the calculation of the ISEE, which Forza Italia has repeatedly proposed, would already be a good sign. The invalidity allowance cannot and must not be regarded as a source of income, let alone an economic advantage. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI Group]] The disability allowance should be used to pay the cost of care, which often has to be 24 hours a day. But this check is not at all sufficient, because the therapies that autistic subjects have to follow are very expensive. For this reason, most of the time it is a family member who takes responsibility for the care of the autistic, familiar person who, for this reason, will also have difficulty in continuing his life, in continuing his work. Those living in a serious disability must provide for a whole series of expenses that, too often, cause economic hardships that are not indifferent. The families of subjects with autistic spectrum disorders face a painful and difficult path, full of obstacles: they are forced to spend thousands and thousands of euros a year to treat their children with scientifically cross-country therapy; they have to deal with children who have difficulty communicating and interacting with others and who often have poor learning skills, difficulties in concentrating, repetitive behaviors and limited interests.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u135	Colleagues, I would ask you to pay more attention, partly because it seems to me that the speech deserves to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u136	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President. These are children who are often the first victims of bullying, unacceptable, by their schoolmates. It is a social problem, which also affects the maintenance of the family environment, and to which it is necessary to give timely answers to prevent these children from becoming marginalized adults, who of course will not be able to integrate into society. With the right therapies, instead, autistic subjects can have a peaceful and dignified life, gaining autonomy and acquiring the skills that will allow them to be adults different from those of past generations; adults who, one day, may also be able to work and be useful to society, with all their potentialities. For this reason, Forza Italia has asked the Government to devote more attention and resources to the problem. Interventions aimed at autistic children have a composite character. These are highly customized programs. Each path is different from the other; each path is different from child to child. The goal is to set in motion a real process of maturation of the individual; they serve constancy and therapeutic continuity and serve highly specialized personnel. Yet autism still seems to be considered a "B" disease. Law 134 of 2015, although it is rich in good intentions and recognizing the need to strengthen research in this field, has not given the answers hoped. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A law has been made at zero cost, which has not allocated funds, because it is marked by the clause of financial invariance. A beautiful frame, in short, but without a painting. Even law 112 of 2016, the so-called after us, which rightly provides for interventions in support of people with serious disabilities who have been deprived of family support, has not allocated sufficient funds. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] We must therefore give full implementation to Law No 134 of 2015 ensuring in all regions the treatments for autism at the essential levels of assistance through the allocation of the necessary economic resources. It is also necessary to implement the Fund for the care of persons with autistic spectrum disturbance and the Fund for the assistance of persons with severe or unsupported disabilities. We have also called for research to be promoted, for the development of highly qualified human resources, for the experimentation of independent life projects, for the integration of adult subjects with autistic spectrum disorders. In short, more investment is needed. In addition, with another motion at my first signature, Forza Italia asked this House to be sensitive to the issue and to give the green light to the establishment of a special Commission, with tasks of analysis, in-depth analysis and proposal on autism and other related disabilities. You see, it's not enough to delegate disability policies to a Ministry without a portfolio. There is still much to be done and much to be understood to improve the lives of those suffering from these disorders and to improve the lives of their families. For this reason it is of fundamental importance to guarantee them the continuity of the care project. We are aware of the complexity of the phenomenon and its social repercussions, for this reason we want to work to ensure that young adults who have received during childhood the diagnosis of autistic spectrum disturbance can live as autonomously as possible, so that they do not incur forms of social exclusion that inevitably lead to isolation and discrimination. We need more awareness of the problem, we need to break down mental barriers and work for greater social integration of these people. Adults who suffer from these disorders, once there is no longer their family to deal with them, cannot become ghosts and be forgotten. We must not leave them alone, but we must help them develop relationships with others and work to ensure that there are more dedicated areas and places to cultivate and develop the great hidden potentials of every person with autistic spectrum disorders. Inclusion cannot be limited to school alone, but it must also touch other contexts of life, from playful-recreational to sports, for participation that favors the right to normality. Having said that, we believe that at least on these issues the Senate Assembly should be cohesive and speak with one voice, thus able to go beyond political belongings. We believe that it is essential to pursue a common objective, to be stronger and to give real and effective answers to those who have been waiting for them for some time. That is why we have decided to withdraw our motions, in order to bring them into a unitary document, an agenda which partly incorporates our requests. We have done this out of common sense, not to exploit politically or to degrade such a delicate subject and because the excellent enemy of good, while we want the good of these children. In order to respond to our demands, we have therefore considered it important to join forces with each other in order to respond together. We hope that the Government and the majority will show real attention to our autistic friends and their families. For all these reasons, Forza Italia has withdrawn its motions and will vote in favour of the unitary agenda drawn up by the majority and the other oppositions. We are there, the institutions are present and attentive to the problem: this is the message that must start from this House today. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u139	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today everything has already been said by my colleagues, but I would like to explore with you the complex and in many ways unknown universe of autistic spectrum disorders in a different way, with the help of a story; a story written by an educator and an artist. This story speaks of a wolf puppy, born on a night of thick fog, in which the border between the earth and the sky is not distinguished. Just as in the fog the exact contours of things are lost, likewise the lack of knowledge of autism prevents children who are affected from "seeing" and pushes them to relegate to a grey corner, where they are debased by that painful label that is diversity. The small wolf in fact is different from the other puppies, because it does not know how to howl and therefore does not express itself through the language typical of the herd; it is afraid of the butterflies, that is, it has atypical phobias for its species; it does not look at the moon, but cannot remove the eyes from the cherries. Its diversity becomes a reason for exclusion from the herd because it will never be a real wolf. Only the mother does not abandon the puppy; so they remain alone, wrapped in the fog that steals all colors from things. It is in that grey world, unfortunately, that families often find themselves with a child suffering from autism. Try to imagine yourself as parents clinging to their son in the fog. Try to imagine the terror that hits you, as you call it, without getting an answer; try to understand what it feels like, in front of a child who looks at you with the absent look, who does not get passionate about games, who does not familiarize with other children, who does not react to any of your attempts to bring him into your world, this "normality" that suddenly becomes a curse, in stark contrast to all this "diversity." Without any warning, without any possibility of defense, the diagnosis arrives: autistic spectrum disorder. Some parents, telling of their own experience, compared this moment to a upheaval of all balances: at first it's all new, you have to learn so many terms never heard before and change all attitudes, to discover those who can open a gap in the fog. It is a painful upheaval, in which we move from despair to acceptance and acceptance to the absolute need to react. The testimonies of parents with autistic children are a punch in the stomach. Leaving yourself totally alone in managing this diversity, which is still too little has been done. In the story at the end it will be a goose to save the little wolf from exclusion; he does so looking beyond appearances, investigating the sensitivity of the puppy, who to save her from a fox, finally throws a howl of a true wolf. At that point also the pack head understands that diversity is not insurmountable: it accepts the wolf and tastes cherries to understand why for the little one are so attractive; proof that diversity can be a source of enrichment. For some time in our country we have been experimenting with a multidisciplinary approach, aimed at providing all the tools to better understand and manage disability, to offer those suffering from autistic spectrum disorders the concrete hope of an existence that is as close as possible to the concept of normality. The therapies administered are psychological and behavioural, of a purely cognitive type, and only to a very small extent pharmacological. There is also a great deal of emphasis on sport, art therapy and pet therapy. Whatever method is put in place, the involvement of family members and people closely linked to the world of those suffering from autism remains fundamental. The results of the application of these methodologies are increasingly surprising. That frosty, shapeless fog begins to thin out in part and many children, especially if diagnosed early, manage to get out of it. This is not the case for everyone, however, because once again many people are penalized by the geographical area they belong to. I know that I often repeat this concept, and I wish that there was no need to repeat it all the time, whatever the discipline, whatever the pathology, whatever the therapy; but for now it is so, the territorial differences are there and apply also to those suffering from autistic spectrum disorders. There are also irrefutable numbers and data in this case. The numbers of a recent national survey carried out by the Higher Institute of Health on the operational units of neuropsychiatry of childhood and adolescence, terminus of the users with disorders of the autistic spectrum of the regional health systems, indicate that in Italy 300,000-400,000 people live with a disorder of the autistic spectrum, between children, adolescents and adults; each operating unit of taking charge of these subjects is composed on average of two childhood neuropsychiatrists, two psychologists, a therapist of the neuropsycomotricity of the evolutionary age, two speech therapists, an educator, a nurse and a social assistant. According to what has been stated by those who have taken care of this investigation, this data presents however a very high variability between the Regions and between the health companies, that is evidenced also from the analysis of the distributions of the number of operators for each Region; in fact there are more than 50 percent of the operating units where the profiles potentially involved in the treatment or are absent or are present in part-time and where they are not guaranteed diagnosis and taken in charge in time consonious. 83 per cent of the planned operational units were activated in the North, 69 per cent in the Centre, 61 per cent in the islands and 51 per cent in the South, thus highlighting how the ability to deliver the essential levels of assistance provided for autism has a strong geographical heterogeneity. The data I submit to you are also supported by an evaluation carried out by the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the technical group interregional mental health, from which emerge a different degree of transposition and different implementations at regional and local level. Precisely as a result of the modest territorial approach of the guidelines defined in 2012, it has been established that their implementation is a fulfilment for the Standing Committee on the Verification of LEAs. In September 2018, the Higher Institute of Health officialized the objective of drawing up guidelines on autistic spectrum disturbance, aimed at supporting health professionals in defining the most appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic path, through the creation of a network of support and assistance for family members and caregivers in the integrated take-up of the child, which must involve the entire context of life (family, school, places of aggregation, social and socio-sanitary territorial services). It can be deduced that in recent years our country has equipped itself with all the tools and the norms necessary to guarantee homogeneous levels of taking charge and treatment throughout the national territory on the basis of the needs. We are talking about measures to ensure the protection of health, the improvement of living conditions and integration into social life. The National Health Service must ensure that people with autistic spectrum disorders perform early diagnosis, individualised treatment and treatment with methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence. Rather, action is needed to ensure full implementation of what is already set out in the current regulatory framework. With this unitary agenda, which the 5 Star Movement will vote favorably, we commit the Government to: establish a scientific and epidemiological network, as already experienced in other countries, with the aim of promoting studies and research aimed at ensuring that the information system provides reliable estimates on autistic spectrum disorders; define an evaluation system according to objective and measurable indicators; refine through the Higher Institute of Health, the development of guidelines; ensure the dissemination of information and awareness campaigns; promote social and welfare collaborations in support of families. We have a duty to take all necessary measures to ensure a normal life for people with autistic spectrum disorder. We have a duty to work to define a collective path according to each territory, to provide everyone with every tool available to thin out that colorless fog that creates a barrier and marks a painful boundary between normality and diversity. We have a duty to make it possible for anyone to get out of this fog and come back to see the wonderful colors of the world. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, PD and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u140	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Castellone, Giammanco, Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I note that there have been no objections or abstentions. I'm suspending the session for about 40 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 13.27 p.m. and resumed at 14.13 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u141	The next item is the vote on the election of four actual members and four alternate members of the Supervisory Committee on the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. The vote, by secret ballot, will take place by ballot, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Rule 25 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Each senator will receive a card on which he can indicate three names for the election of the actual members and three names for the election of the alternate members. In order to prevent any possible misunderstanding, the list of colleagues with the same surname is available to the senators in the Chamber, indicating their names. Two booths have been set up in front of the Presidency to ensure the smoothest possible conduct of voting operations. My fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate ballot boxes at the exit of the cabins themselves. The call will be done in alphabetical order. I declare the vote open. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the call. (The Senator Secretary Nisini and, later, the Senator Secretary Laforgia make the call). (In the course of voting operations, the Presidency takes over - 14.41 -). They took part in the vote: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasia, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino, Augusori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bellanova, Giasio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Biti, Boldrini, Bonfrisco, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottici, Bressa, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calandrini, Caliendo, Campari, Candura, Cantù, Cantù, Cario, Cario, Coltorti, Casalati, Castaldi, Castiello, Catalfo, Causin, Cesaro, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Ciriani, Cirinnà, Cinna, Cario, Cario, Cincia, Cinzia, Cineri, Cineri, Cinzia, Cinzio, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, Alfieri, G. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the ballots and the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u142	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00077 by Senator Fazzolari and other Senators, 1-00100 by Senator D'Alfonso and other Senators, 1-00104 by Senator Bagnai and other Senators, and 1-00107 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, on the Bank of Italy's gold reserves. I call Senator Zaffini to explain motion No 77.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject is not of little importance, since, as you know and as everyone knows, the gold reserves that Bankitalia holds to date, euro plus euro minus, amount to a considerable amount of EUR 90 billion. It is a figure that I consider worthy of attention. The motion of the Group of Brothers of Italy, which I remember dealing with this matter through the statements of our President Giorgia Meloni...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u144	Excuse me, Senator Zaffini, I'm interrupting to tell you that, for my own care and for the offices, we have only noticed that there is no government and therefore we have to suspend the session. I apologise to you and to the House. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.48 p.m. and resumed at 4.434 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call Senator Zaffini to explain motion No 77.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the motion by the Fratelli d'Italia Group deals with the subject of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy since 2014, when our President's party presented an agenda for the conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 2013 on IMU and Banca d'Italia. The agenda called for a black-and-white statement that gold belongs to the State and not to the Bank of Italy. The theme was hot at the time, because, as you, colleagues, you will surely remember, in that passage there was a recognition of ownership of a system of Italian banks that previously had, instead, a purely symbolic presence. The subject is absolutely important because, Mr President, the equivalent in euro of this gold reserve (which I recall to be the third, in order of magnitude, between the States and the fourth among the institutions) is about EUR 90 billion: we are talking about an absolutely significant figure. This wealth is the subject of a great misunderstanding, which has continued to be perpetrated for years, since, for example, the then Prime Minister Prodi felt that he proposed the sale of part of this reserve to reduce Italy's public debt stock. The great misunderstanding has a series of protagonists; the first of these is the Bank of Italy, the issuing institution, our state bank, which expressly writes on its website: The law assigns the ownership of the reserves to the Bank of Italy; pursuant to Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With this, Banca d'Italia writes a fake on its website, because Article 127 of the Treaty does not mention any passages with the term "property" and, moreover, does not assign to the national banks the property of the gold reserves. So Banca d'Italia does a bit like Totò with the Trevi fountain (the example fits): you will remember that Totò sold the Trevi fountain; Bankitalia could sell reserves that are not its property. The misunderstanding is cultivated, indeed aggravated, by Prime Minister Conte, when, answering a question from my colleague Rauti in recent days, he makes a tautological statement. The Prime Minister Conte, in fact, on the question raised by the questioner, points out that the gold reserves have always been in fact recorded in the assets of the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy and that the purchase and sale of gold and gold currencies have always been included among the transactions of its relevance. But he says it even worse when he closes the answer: Therefore, it is clear from the legal framework described that the ownership of the national gold reserves is of the Bank of Italy. And he adds: A regulatory intervention aimed at changing the structure of the Bank of Italy's golden property, even if within the framework of the political discretion of the national legislator, should therefore be assessed in terms of compatibility with the basic principles governing the European System of Central Banks. This last step is true, but the precedent is absolutely false. Second claim that falsely attributes the ownership of our gold reserves to the Bank of Italy. Try to "put a piece in it," not wanting, not knowing, the governor of the ECB Mario Draghi (already Governor of the Bank of Italy, as you all know), when he says that the ECB has the full right to hold and manage the currency reserves that are transferred to it and use them for the purposes indicated by the Statute. This is true of the reservations that are being transferred to it. Of course, the excess portion of the transferred reserves remains in ownership, i.e. the much more important part of the famous EUR 90 billion. In fact, Governor Draghi says that the European System of Central Banks is responsible for maintaining and managing the official foreign currency reserves of the Member States. The plaintiff continues with respect to which another country - our so-called cousins - has put a firm point and has settled the circumstance with law - I translate the passage of the French law - according to which the Banque de France holds and manages the reserves of the State in gold and in uniform and enters them into the assets of its balance sheet, according to the modalities specified by a convention concluded between the central bank (the Banque de France) and the State. French legislation continues to say that the reserves are assigned to the Banque de France with the task of preserving and managing them on behalf of the State. Even the Banque de France on its institutional site describes a passage in which it states that each Frenchman indirectly owns 38 grams of gold. All this is what we should do, and that is what we should solve in an absolutely trivial way, almost lapalissian I would like to say, legalizing and declaring in essence that the gold of Bankitalia is of the State and is of the Italians. We could also color this statement, perhaps in the press releases. Since every day they soften us, or rather soften you, with the size of the public debt at the head of every Italian, it would also be intelligent from the point of view of communication to be able to remind the Italians that indirectly they also have a minimum amount of gold. It would be some kind of political marketing. But you're not capable of doing this. So it is true that you speak two different languages on this too. There is a legislative proposal filed by Claudio Borghi della Lega, President of the Budget Committee of the Chamber, which consists of a single article that basically states what it is saying, namely that the Bank of Italy manages and holds the gold reserves exclusively as a deposit, without prejudice to the right of ownership of the Italian State on those reserves. Of course, including - and I add this - those held abroad. Alongside this proposed law deposited but not scheduled - this is the point - there is instead a motion of the 5 Stars, deposited in the Senate and that today we will comment together, which is basically a copy-paste of our motion, but the sweetener. Where our motion uses mandatory terms, the 5 Star motion uses conditional verbs. Colleagues, this is a matter that cannot remain in the misunderstanding, it is a matter that cannot be managed by saying: "it is obvious that it is not obvious. It is EUR 90 billion, it is a huge wealth that our state holds, I repeat, the third state for stocks owned by gold reserves, so Parliament has the obligation, as other states like France have done, to legislate clearly, clearly and absolutely compatible with the European treaties that Italy has signed. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u146	I call Senator Misiani to explain motion 100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u147	Mr President, I believe that history can help us a lot in this debate on the Bank of Italy's gold reserves because holding gold, in the history of humanity, has always had a crucial importance in monetary systems. Not surprisingly, in the Belle Époque, the monetary system was called a gold standard; not surprisingly in the gold age of the post-war period, the system is called a standard gold exchange and even in the present era, the era of turbofinance, of paper economy, gold maintains a strategic importance because it is a metal that has well-known characteristics, because it is not issued by any authority and therefore is not subject to risk of solvency, it is not a real estate. Gold has been and is used for financial purposes, to earn an income, it is used as a guarantee to obtain loans on the market. This is also said in the history of our country when, in 1974, Chancellor Schmidt granted Italy, the President of the Rumor Council, a guaranteed loan from the gold of the Bank of Italy, page that we remember as wounded by national pride; but that loan was decisive in order to allow Italy to overcome a dramatic period in which the country risked default, because it was Italy of oil shock, hyperinflation and red and black terrorism. Without the gold we wouldn't have had that loan, without that loan the story would have been different. First lesson in history, Mr President: having gold improves credit, it is a bulwark of security for a country like ours. It is a treasure, yes, but a treasure of last resort, as the historian Gianni Toniolo has rightly written. Even in recent years, central banks have started to buy gold again and since 2010 they have been net buyers of gold on international markets. The same central banks, including ours, signed in 1999 an agreement - the Central bank gold agreement - renewed every five years and which expires in September 2019 limiting the activity of central banks on the gold market to avoid turbulence effects on prices. The Italian central bank, Mr President, has a lot of gold, as was mentioned: 2.452 tonnes for a value of more than €90 billion. We're the fourth holder in the world. The history of these reserves is very instructive: it begins in 1893, the reserves grow progressively until they reach the 561 tons in 1933, then they descend for a series of disposals and are reduced to 105 tons in September 1943, the moment of the armistice of Italy with the Allies. The German occupants stole most of those 105 tons that were all deposited in Italy, on national territory. At the end of the war we had remained with 22 tons of gold that were returned later but that gold, all held on national territory, was taken away by the German occupying troops. This is the second lesson in history, Mr President: it is a wrong choice to place the gold of the homeland in one place, it is an imprudent choice. Dislocating part of the gold reserves abroad is not a betrayal of the homeland, it is not a injury to national sovereignty, it is a strategy of correct and prudent minimization of risks. You leave the gold where it is purchased, you avoid expensive and dangerous transfers. You leave it out of national territory for security reasons. That is why more than half of our country's gold is now held at the Federal reserve bank in New York, Switzerland and the UK central bank. They are public data, in the public domain and we do not really understand why, in the motion tabled by my colleague Bagnai, we ask for fantomatic news about the consistency and the state of preservation of the gold held outside the national territory. Let us say that, Mr President, it is better to leave things as they are. The return to the national territory desired by the colleagues of the League, the Movimento 5 Stars and the Brothers of Italy, would be an operation not only expensive, but also imprudent. Let's learn from the history of our country. Thirdly, whose gold reserves are there? President Conte in this Chamber on 21 February said the key words, saying that gold is included in the assets of the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy, which is owned by that Bank and that the members of the Bank of Italy cannot claim the rights to gold. That is what the current legislation says. The Bank of Italy - as I recall - is not a dangerous merchant bank speculator, it is a body governed by public law that is part of the Eurosystem and the European System of Central Banks. Its governance and activities are governed by national rules and European standards, which say things very clearly. They say that the powers relating to the holding and management of foreign exchange reserves, and therefore also gold reserves, are among the tasks of the euro system, that the ECB and the national central banks must have a guarantee of full institutional and financial independence; they say, in Article 123 of the Treaty of Functioning of the European Union, that there is a prohibition on monetary financing, i.e. that central banks cannot go to the aid of national governments in their budgetary policy decisions. It is not a real estate because the Italian and European rules allow a series of uses. However, I repeat that this is a treasure of last resort and any reduction, any transaction of sale of the gold reserves of the Bank of Italy, ladies and gentlemen, for example, to reduce the public debt, or to avoid the increase of VAT of 23 billion, which is written in the fiscal law of 2019 (an example that I do not by chance), any intervention of this kind would first of all be an infringement of Community law and international agreements, but above all it would be a completely irrational choice from an economic point of view. Such a choice would be against the interest of the Italians, would reduce the public debt by a fraction, because the 91 billion are less than 4% of the stock of the Italian public debt, would not serve to cover permanent burdens, like the increases of the VAT that you have determined from 2020 on (52 billion between 2020 and 2021) and the sale of the gold reserves for fiscal policy choices would worsen the credit quality of Italy, would increase the spread, which is already twice the level before the 2018 elections, and would have further negative repercussions on the access to credit by companies and families. It would therefore be - let us say - a bad choice in total contradiction with that prudent management of currency reserves and gold that represents a security garrison, that treasure of last resort that has always been for our country the golden heritage owned by the Bank of Italy. For all these reasons, Mr President, with our motion we want to commit the Government to three points. Firstly, to confirm the Bank of Italy's full autonomy in the holding and management of official reserves and, among them, of gold reserves in accordance with what is written in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Second, work internationally for the renewal of the Central Bank gold agreement, which expires in September 2019. We would like to have clear words from the government in this respect. The third is the most important commitment: to exclude any intervention aimed at reducing the availability of gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy for initiatives aimed at reducing public debt, deficit or to support other interventions. We want clear and unequivocal words from this point of view, all the more so a few days after the presentation of the document of economy and finance and a few months from an autumn that unfortunately presents itself very difficult and very demanding for the public finance of our country and ultimately for the Italian companies and citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u148	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of State Higher Education (De Nora-Lorusso) in Altamura, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u149	Mr President, it is up to me to say something obvious, I would say almost tautological, that the state gold is of the state, but since this issue, which should in itself be tautological, has already aroused passionate speeches, perhaps we should add something. In the motion of our leftist opposition, I particularly appreciated the reference to history. So let's try to understand from history how gold arrives in the coffers of the central banks. Historically there are three basic paths: colonial exploitation, which does not concern us particularly and which today affects very few states, war and trade balance surpluses. So gold comes into the central bank chests by virtue of two things: the courage of the citizens, who manage to win a war, or the industriousness of the citizens, who manage to have a surplus of balance of payments. For this reason the gold of the central bank is not of one person, it is not even of five Italians, but it is the gold of all Italians and this for the genesis of the constitution of these reserves, those gold and more generally those currency. It is, also because it is so everywhere. Today it is easy to document: just an instrument like a mobile phone and you can safely go on the Internet and consult the statutes of the central banks. I did so, going to consult the statutes of the banks, from A of Afghanistan to Z of Zimbabwe, naturally passing through those of the banks participating in the European System of Central Banks and therefore, in particular, those of the eurozone. In all these statutes, the fact that the central bank holds the State reserves is clearly expressed. I correct myself, only in a statute this is not specified, that is in the Zimbabwean statute: I do not know if this is the model of someone in this august assembly, but in any case, we will consider it, if such a request is made. This is also because the highest authority in central banking today in Europe says so, nothing less than Dr Mario Draghi, who, responding on 27 March 2019 to the question put by MEPs Valli and Zanni, makes it clear that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks do not use the concept of ownership to determine the competences of the European System of Central Banks (...) in relation to reserves. This means that those who might do so would commit a technically subversive act in relation to the order in which our central banks operate. I would like to clarify one thing, which may have provoked this debate, which I will come back to later in the explanation of vote: the State is not the Government and I am sorry to have to make this clarification here and have to do it to us, but from this comes the fact that a whole series of things that have been said are particularly inconstant. I would also like to return to the subject of the repatriation of gold. We poor populists or patriots for years have been invited to follow the best practices of other European countries that were shown us as an example. Typically, it was Germany and Holland. Today it is easy to document and my readers know what that means. Therefore, if you go on the Internet and seek gold repatriation, you will see that, for example, the Dutch central bank has brought from 31 percent to 51 percent the amount of gold held at home and, for example, you will find that Germany has moved several hundred tons of gold from abroad to German soil. When there was Soviet pressure it might have been convenient to diversify the country risk, but when this pressure failed they thought it would be more useful to bring some home. My colleague, Mr Misiani, is right: these are diversification choices. Diversification is a principle of financial risk and we do not ask for it to be repatriated; we simply ask for the question to be studied serenely, the costs, also in order to ensure that the Government has the confidence of where the reserves are and, in particular, the gold ones. We do not ask - as our fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy legitimately do - for charity this repatriation. There's no litigation here. However, we find that the so-called virtuous countries have put it into practice. Let's not forget that. I'd like to get to the last point that was raised with the usual salad of concepts, which doesn't help us. Maybe we should be more precise and precise here. Just as it is not the case to confuse State and Government - which is then at the origin of the misunderstanding that brings us here - it is not even the case to confuse independence and autonomy. The independence of the central bank is not at all under discussion. Perhaps it would be appropriate for us to speak serenely of the independence of the central bank, which is a principle that we respect because it is inscribed in our system. The European systems want to change them, but in compliance with the rules. It is a principle that is affirmed in the eighties and, therefore, quite old, that lies in the current financial context as the pens to vodka according to our table or the Spandau Ballet are to the music that we listen to. It's old stuff; it's from the '80s, when inflation was actually two-digit and a certain kind of institution was needed. We are now in deflation and we need another kind of institution, which will be established, but this is a debate that we leave for another time. This is a debate that we can return to. I would simply like to stress that the independence of the central bank, if we consider it in technical terms as in the well-known study of Grilli and Masciandaro of 1991, has two dimensions, a policy and an economic one (the goal independence, that is, the ability to set its goals, and the instrument independence, that is, the ability to choose the way to pursue them). From the point of view of goal independence, the Bank of Italy is not independent because its objective is price stability, as defined by the Governing Council of the ECB in 1998, and therefore an inflation rate below or close to 2%. Let's forget that they can't get it - we'll talk about it later - but the objective is not given by the Italian central bank; it acts as a articulation of the European System of Central Banks. From that point of view, to think that this is an attack on independence is absolutely irrelevant. If we talk, instead, of independence in terms of instrument independence, that is, of operational independence, nobody wants to remove operational independence from the Bank of Italy. The detention and management of gold we give in this motion of ours for absolutely undisputed. We recognize the technical expertise of that body and no one thinks of giving it to the government or anyone else. The important thing is to say that that is the gold of the Italians and the State. That was what I felt like telling you to explain the content of our motion. It seems strange to have had to do that, but if I have been asked to do so and, therefore, to say the obvious, it means that perhaps there is something that does not work in our debate and in our time. We can talk about this calmly one more time. I save part of the time at my disposal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u150	I call Senator Pichetto Fratin to explain motion No 107.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u151	Mr President, in order to assess this issue, we must first of all ask ourselves what the Bank of Italy is - the previous speakers have already spoken on this point - and on what was the path it has taken to the Bank of Italy, that is, since 1893 when the Roman Bank found a very efficient printing press and the mergers had to be arranged, in 1928, when for the first time the public share entered the issuing banks, until 1936, which is the base year of the banking law of this State that led to the establishment of the Bank of Italy. I remember that the Bank of Italy in 1936 had as partners moral institutions (essentially the Savings Banks), institutions under public law (Banking Institute São Paulo, Monte dei Paschi di Siena), the three national banks that had practically been acquired by the IRI established five years earlier (Italian Credit, Commercial Bank, Bank of Rome), INA (National Insurance Institute), all public entities, for which it was public property. The Bank of Italy in 1936, at the time of its constitution, was a totally public entity and it remained so until the beginning of the 1990s, with privatisations. Then - let me say perhaps strangely - the Fascist Government did not want by choice to identify in the Ministry of the Treasury the owner, the one therefore that should have held the gold reserves; it did not want to do so because, as the acts show, it wanted to represent all the Italian territory and because it had to be an element of guarantee also with respect to the Ministry of the Treasury; the owner was however the State, and it is still the State today. I shared the view that this was evident with 100% public Banca d'Italia, and therefore with a system, with a directory, with a totally public governance. In the nineties it happened that these public partners have become private subjects: the members of Banca d'Italia have been privatised for which today we are faced with a legal hybrid, with a society - let's call it this - that has all private members but they cannot command, because it commands the public: in fact governance is the so-called directorio, so the addresses naturally give them the Italian State. This anomaly manifests itself - as it turns out also from the media in the last two days - with the determination of the gross profit in 8.9 billion and the profit clearly in 6,4: to the Italian State, therefore to the Government, to the pleasure of the minister of the economy Tria, of course 5,7 billion dividend, while 2.3 to the members, that once were public and today are private. For the truth, a draft law was presented to the Chamber of Deputies by the Brothers of Italy Group which plans to return to the beginning of 1936: a discussion can be opened on this. I believe that at this historical and economic moment, if nationalization were to be pursued by expropriation of the original values, the default of the banking system would be created: someone could say, for some members, a greater default. On the other hand, if we have to recover to values of 7.5 billion, I consider it quite useless at the moment. The issue, however, can be addressed, indeed it must be addressed, but with caution, also because, as has been said in several interventions, the Bank of Italy is public and our motion mentions a whole series of norms approved by the Italian Parliament that declare it: the decree-law 30 November 2013, n. 133, laying down urgent provisions concerning the IMU, which cites the Bank of Italy as an institution of public law, as the central bank of the Italian Republic; the decree of the President of the Republic 31 March 1988, n. 148, approving the single text of the rules of law in currency matters, which in the same way cites the Bank of Italy as a public subject. Banca d'Italia is the Italian State and therefore automatically, in the balance of powers, is one of the powers within our democracy. As such, it must also have autonomy, independence and, of course, independence in relation to the commitments of the Treaties with the European Union. Of course, it must have precise rules and, of course, these must be clear and transparent, because the autonomy of the central bank, ladies and gentlemen, is essential. In a conventional currency regime, since there is no longer the possibility of changing the paper currency into gold, the credibility of the currency is guaranteed by independence from political power. Otherwise, the government changes and the currency loses credibility. We can ask for clarity and transparency, but with caution and gentleness in handling these issues. It is for this reason that the Directory is independent, the Government is another thing and Parliament is another: it is the balance of the powers of the Republic. Gold - an excursus has already been made in the interventions that preceded mine - has grown a lot since 1946 onwards, following the positive balances of our trade balance. I would like to remind you that with the agreements of Bretton Woods - that is why there are reserves in the United States - the flag moved from one box to another of gold bars, moving the flag towards Italy, fortunately, and this led us to have 2,452 tons of gold, even with bars that, as I have read lately, have the Nazi symbol and others that have the sickle and hammer, so they can also have a higher value for historians than those who deal with money. This issue has already been addressed: it is a guarantee, it is security, it is an agreement and it is the subject of state laws and treaties with the European Union. It represents the credit rating of the Republic. We cannot use our gold, which, as has been said, has a minimum amount of 4%, compared to public debt, to consume it once and for all to make a living for a year, because the value of these 90 billion reserves is a much higher value in giving confidence to savers, in giving confidence to our country. For this reason we believe that to discuss who is the gold and sterile: the gold is of Bank of Italy because Bank of Italy is part of the Republic. It can be further clarified and reiterated, one or more flag rules can be approved to affirm once again that that gold is of Italy, of the Italian Republic and, in the balance of the powers of democracy, of a subject that represents Italy: the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u152	I declare the debate open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u153	Mr President, as we have heard, the question of the ownership of the gold reserves comes from afar, and from what we have heard it is clear that it has been dragging for a long time, unresolved. To put it briefly, it passes through the privatization of the banking system in the nineties, the entry into the euro, the questions posed during the Berlusconi Government, the proposal of the Prodi Government, in 2007, to sell a part of the gold reserves to repay the debt, as well as through the context, recalled by my colleague Zaffini, of 2014, with that decree IMU-Bankitalia to which Brothers of Italy and Giorgia Meloni opposed. In short, today we are dealing with a vexed question, which does not find solutions and does not find clear answers, except those of the European Central Bank. This vexed question comes here, today, now, to us with a simple and complex question, but basically: whose is the property of gold guarded by Banca Italia? I would like to point out that it comes into question today because the Brothers of Italy, first of all, called for - I would say triggered - this debate. He did so, and I should like to remind him, in motion No 77, tabled on 6 February last. Brothers of Italy has always supported its battle on property by the State, and not the banks that guard it, of Italian gold. We tabled this motion on 6 February last in the deep and irremovable conviction that the properties and gold reserves have always played a role of guarantee, independence and sovereignty of a people. The same concept we mentioned in a question time of 21 February, with Question 3-00622, which I personally presented to the President of the Council, calling for an explicit specification on the ownership of gold, given the hybrid nature assumed by the Bank of Italy over time, as a result of numerous legislative interventions which had stratified and which, in the end, created a state of confusion. Brothers of Italy has therefore long, and continues to ask, for a clear and definitive ruling on the ownership of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy. He also believed that the gold reserves could not be used to cover budgetary needs, but that they should remain as a reserve to guarantee the solidity of the national heritage. We stress, in fact, that they belong to the people and to the Italian State and not to the Bank of Italy. During that question time, President Conte's answer to my question was worrying. It has already been mentioned by my colleague, Mr Zaffini, and I will not repeat it, but, in summary, from that answer it could be assumed, indirectly, that the gold belongs to the Bank, because the reserves have always been brought back to the assets of the balance sheet. That being so, before, during and after the statements of the President-in-Office of the Council, who told us that gold belongs to the Bank, part of the League was moving backwards. Here we come to a paradox and I say it with the deepest respect I have for this House. There is a paradox in this debate, because there is a motion of the League and the Movimento 5 stars, then of the majority, that asks the government to intervene on the reservations. But I want to clarify where the paradox is. The paradox is that there are two tracks: in the squares and in the media a part of the majority wants to communicate that the gold is of the State, not of the Bank, and asks for an intervention from the Government, but then in the motion, in reality, this intervention is not asked explicitly. I will not venture to say that it gets melina, but certainly wait yes, because in the motion the Government is committed to: "to take the appropriate initiatives in order to define the ownership of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy in compliance with European legislation". How to say: it is unequivocal. Compared to this instrumental schizophrenia, we would like clarity instead. And the clarity is contained in a crystal clear way in the motion of Brothers of Italy, because we, in the awareness that the State is not the Government (we know, and I greatly appreciated the intervention of my colleague Bagnai), ask the Government to tell us whether the gold is of the State (as Bagnai said) or of the Bank of Italy (as the President of the Council said in the question time). It is not a matter and a minor difference. We ask for that. Whoever votes - and I invite the friends of the League to do so - the motion of Brothers of Italy will give a clear answer to this fundamental question. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You have to tell us who owns and owns the reserves. Instrumental schizophrenia apart (contented in the motion and declarations), then serves an authentic legal interpretation on property and use. In our opinion, we must translate into law the principle that gold is of the Italians, not of the bankers, not of the strong powers, not of the great finance. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Forgive me if I am passionate about this matter, but when it is necessary to clarify and ask for clarity, we expect an answer that is equally clear, without waiting and postponement. I want to say and point out that, in asking for clarification about the legal aspect of the legal property of gold, we do not want to pass with this the principle that gold can be used for other purposes (for example, to plug public finance holes, to avoid corrective manoeuvres or to pay some electoral promise). On the other hand, we ask, with our motion on the ownership of the gold reserves, to reiterate and say once and for all that these reserves belong to the State and not to Bankitalia. The rest - excuse me the expression - is fake. The basic question is this: we must answer this and ask to answer it. Otherwise, everything else is sovereignist rhetoric that is taken out, when we do not assume the responsibility here to ask the Commission directly, unequivocally and clearly who this property is. We know that and we made it clear in our motion. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u154	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of four actual members and four alternate members of the Commission for the supervision of the Deposit and Loan Fund: [[Senators present 262 Senators voting 262]] For the election of four actual members, the senators obtained the votes: [[Bagnai 99 Zuliani 99 Ferrero 95 Turco 93 Paroli 2 Cerno 1 Ferrara 1 Giarrusso 1 Piarulli 1 Presutto 1]] For the election of four alternate members, the senators obtained the votes: [[Mollame 146 Pazzaglini 146 Presutto 146 Grimani 49 Turkish 1]] [[Blank cards 61 Nulle cards 2]] I hereby declare the senators elected as effective members: Bagnai, Zuliani, Ferrero and Turco; alternate members of the senators: Mollame, Pazzaglini, Presutto and Grimani. [[Applause]] Congratulations to all the elect, along with the wish for good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u155	Mr President, since Senator Bagnai has started a story about how gold has arrived in the banks of Italy, I would add the episode that precedes it, that is, because gold and not something else. It is interesting to ask the question: why gold and not other metals that are rarer or more precious than gold and even with a better look? In fact, gold reflects the yellow color, but there are metals that reflect a green color, such as the garnet, or grey-blue as the osmium, and that have higher technological qualities; there is a beautiful iridium red. Why didn't you get this stuff and the gold came in? For a very simple reason: gold is among the most useless metals on the earth's surface and nothing can be done about it. Metallurgically it is worth nothing; it has only one property compared to the others: it is malleable hot and cold and therefore it is excellent for making precision jewelry with primitive tools. That's the only reason the gold ended up there. So let's remember that, like all commodities, it may be that sooner or later in the course of history gold is useful to do something else. At a time when it would be useful to do something else (maybe we will find that it is a fantastic catalyst that works better for certain chemical processes than platinum or palladium), then at that moment we will have to pose another problem and not so much to establish the subject to which it belongs. I am not interested in hearing that gold belongs to the European Central Bank. I want to hear it say - as has been said - that it is the property of the Italian people. Historically, in fact, gold was accumulated in the name and on behalf of the Italian people by an institution that had a privilege over other banking institutions, that is the possibility to beat money with the state behind. Those reserves have been accumulated in this way and are therefore owned by the Italian people. This must be established regardless of any treaties that have been concluded with the other nations of the European Union, because this is whatever: it comes first and it is a kind of natural law. I would also like to reassure those who claim that gold could be used to cover a one-off budget gap. You see, the problem is that the gold prices right now are straight from the fact that there are more market makers holding it; if someone poured 2,000 tons of yellow metal on the market, the price of gold would go down. Graphs would pierce the floor, as the technicians say. So, it's no one's interest to do this kind of operation. Secondly, in order to guarantee the gold courses, we have signed treaties that prevent free sale, and in my opinion this is very fair, precisely because, beyond the quantities hoarded, there is an enormous amount of yellow metal around the Italian families and the value of it would be destroyed when this metal was put on the market. Why did I tell you before the speech that metal is still a commodity? Because, when the system of extracting gold was found, where there really is so much, that is, in the sea, yellow metal would no longer be worth anything. Suffice it to say that currently around the world 150,000 tons have been extracted, while in the sea there are 1.5 billion tons of gold. In practice, gold is valid because it serves nothing but to make thesaurization and because it is not easily extracted from where it is located: this is the aspect that we must keep in mind. Having said that, with regard to motions, there are positive sides more or less in all, but not what I would have expected to read. It is written that the Bank of Italy is an independent institution, but it is not clear from whom (this sentence should be completed), and manages the currency reserves. Here too I open a parenthesis: gold and currency reserves are treated equally, but it is clear that I cannot materially be the same thing. First of all for a physical reason: gold has a limit, it's more like a cryptocurrency like bitcoin; the amount on planet earth is that, just like bitcoin assimilable to it (no more than 50 million pieces, if I'm not mistaken). On the other hand, currencies can be created more or less indefinitely, because we are in a situation of under-capacity, so for now there is no limit to the printable currency. The fact that gold can be acquired with paper is a false problem because not all paper can be converted to gold, waiting that materially there is not enough gold to cover the paper. A currency cannot therefore be put on the gold plane and therefore on a motion I would have expected it to be made clear that gold cannot be considered by the European Central Bank as a currency like any other: it is a universal exchange, but it is not a currency. In a motion of this kind I would also have expected to read something about the management faculty of the Bank of Italy, because if it is said that it can manage gold as it wishes, then it can also sell it all, without prejudice to international treaties. I would therefore have expected some stakes on the amount of gold that can be moved for contingent needs, that is, if the gold goes down we could buy, while if it goes up we could sell some bars, that is, move it, put a post-it of Italy on another pile and say that it has moved here or there. I would have expected this more than what has been said and above all than to talk about compliance with European legislation. In my opinion, a legislative procedure should also be implemented that better regulates the management of this type of resource, because if it is the property of the Italian people there must be no possibility of placing it more or less freely in the market, as is the case with current currency reserves, those that are no longer convertible: for those we can leave to the Bank of Italy the power to manage them. All this because basically there are indivisible assets that must always be considered of the community, then as a general principle we declare gold among the inalienable assets common of the Italian nation. This would have been a good thing to read in at least one of the motions under consideration, because, however, there is always much vagueness in the way we can get the Bank of Italy or the European Central Bank to handle things. In short, I believe that we have good things in each of the motions; in particular, even if the obvious is confirmed, I support the fact that in motion 100 it is written that we will not use this gold to cover any budget deficits or to finance something and, as far as motion 77 is concerned, it would be better to propose that the word "fine" should be put to Italy to possess the resources. Finally, to conclude, I would like to refer to repatriation. In my opinion, in a better world we could also bring gold here; at the present time I believe that the "jam jar" should be kept away from the hands of those directly concerned. For logistical reasons it's fine where it is; maybe if you were in Switzerland or Austria we'd be quieter (better in Switzerland). However, let us remember that there should be no basic obstruction to repatriation; given everything, I believe that gold is well where it is. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u156	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u157	Mr President, the issue we are dealing with in these motions is sensitive and important, has to do with considerable resources, has significant repercussions on our country's reputation in the financial markets and could have consequences on the market for a good shelter like gold. (Applause from the right) (Applause from the right) (Applause from the right) (Applause It could change the independence of primary financial institutions such as the Bank of Italy and the European Central Bank. A serious and careful evaluation of the texts in question cannot but start from the photograph of the existing situation and the consequences of choices that can affect the status quo; let me then clarify the following. Even after the gold standard was exceeded, central banks continued to hold gold reserves. Under the Maastricht Treaty, by the will of the contracting States, sovereign powers on monetary policy have been transferred exclusively to the European Union. For this reason, the holding and management of currency reserves, including gold reserves, is now one of the core tasks of the euro system, composed of the ECB and the national central banks of the euro area states. The gold reserves in the availability of national central banks can also be used, as well as for foreign exchange intervention, to fulfil commitments to international financial institutions or to carry out the Treasury's foreign debt service. Moreover, it does not seem possible that the gold reserves can be claimed by the participants in the capital of Banca d'Italia, whose capital rights, as is known, are limited to the value of the capital and the annual net profits. The national central banks must be able to exercise their powers of detention and management of reserves in complete independence; the national, legislative and government authorities must respect the independence of the ECB and the national central banks, in accordance with the European Treaties signed by the Contracting States. From the point of view of institutional independence, the national central banks may not be subject to binding requirements regarding the performance of their institutional tasks in matters falling within the competence of their system, including with specific regard to foreign exchange reserves. Under current legislation, therefore, States must also respect the financial independence of central banks, ensuring that they have sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks. Finally, the Member States have decided to adhere to the prohibition on monetary financing (...). It prevents national central banks, in order to protect the pursuit of the objective of price stability and the maintenance of fiscal discipline, from providing credit to the State and other public bodies, including the financing of public sector obligations vis-à-vis third parties. The statements made above are not mine; they are actually a quote - and they are quoted, as can be seen from the written text of this speech, which I will hand over to the Audit Office - and these are the words spoken in this House on 21 February of this year, in reply to Question 3-00622, no less than by the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Giuseppe Conte. The clear and demanding statements of the Premier I believe that not only do they not need further nails, but also - pursuant to Article 95 of our Constitution, which states that the President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government, maintaining the unity of political direction - are already exhaustive for the entire parliamentary majority that holds the Executive. Those in or outside this House who thought they could use this treasure - the third absolute reserve among all the countries of the world, after that of the United States and Germany, and the fourth if we also consider the gold reserves of the International Monetary Fund - perhaps do not know what the consequences would be. In fact, net of the unequivocal statements of Prime Minister Conte that I mentioned above, if even if it were possible to touch the gold reserve preserved by the Bank of Italy, we would be dealing with operations with a low incidence. If we ever wanted to make use of the resources resulting from the sale of the gold reserves to finance current expenditure, the proceeds from the exploitation of the reserves would be merely exceptional and would be exhausted when the last gram of gold was sold. If all or a large part of the gold reserve were to be sold to ordinary people, known and obvious market mechanisms, the value of gold would quickly be depreciated. A choice of this kind would also lead to reactions on the financial markets: a state that sells gold reserves what signal would it send to the financial markets? A bad signal, ladies and gentlemen, that would help to further lose confidence in a country like Italy, characterized by a large public debt. And such a signal would result in a greater honesty of our public debt, raising the spread and thus increasing the cost of paying the debt, impoverishing the resources available to finance the current expenditures of the State. Finally, a possible use of the gold reserves to reduce the public debt, net of the consequences expressed above, would have a limited impact, since, from the accounts that can be made agilely on the consistency of the gold reserves themselves and on their valorization, it is evident that the impact on the public debt would be less than four percentage points, on a debt mountain that today Istat tells us to have grown in 2018 to 132.1 percent of GDP, an increase of one percentage point compared to the previous year and after three years of constant decrease. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, in this House, the majority holding the Executive is not then able to produce acts that give our country an economic policy worthy of a country like ours, and considering that the prudent management of the gold reserves represents an objective to which every Government must strive to best protect the country (for the reasons well illustrated in the intervention of Senator Misiani), I believe that it must be reiterated, both by Parliament and by the Executive - which I no longer see here - the full autonomy of the Bank of Italy in the detention and management of the gold reserves. I am in front of all the data that the OECD has released these days: a forecast of negative economic growth, confirmed by the estimate of -0.2% of GDP for this year; a decrease in private consumption and gross fixed capital formation; an increase in the unemployment rate and in our public debt. This data, if read in relation to the clear rejection that the OECD has made of the main measures taken by the Government, should trigger a warning bell. On the other hand, the majority are unable to give serious and concrete answers. Meanwhile the investments are firm, the yards do not open and the country is going towards a recession that we had averted after years of serious and far-sighted work. We are the only European country in recession. Here, in the face of such a bleak situation, there is someone here today, among us, who would like to get his hands on the gold reserves of our country. And to do what with it? To cover the costs of irresponsible management of public resources? So we can still get some more and mischievous propaganda? Gentlemen, that's enough. Colleagues, the point of our motion goes exactly in the opposite direction to what some people are proposing in this House, ensuring and ensuring that commitments to guarantee stability to the gold market and financial markets (commitments made in accordance with other States and international institutions) are respected and, above all, excluding any intervention that reduces the availability of our golden resources to cover or support other absurd interventions whose system costs would be far higher - as I have explained briefly - than the expected benefits. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u158	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u159	Mr President, the subject on this agenda is far from a question of goat wool and it is not even the celebration of the obvious. Indeed, as is well known, the Bank of Italy is the fourth holder of gold reserves in the world, after the US Federal Reserve, the German Bundesbank and the International Monetary Fund. Then, countries like France, Spain and others come along. The total amount of gold held by the Institute, following the grant of 141 tonnes to the European Central Bank, by virtue of our accession, is 2.452 tonnes, which makes more or less, at current revaluations, about 110 billion euros. The gold of the Institute is kept mainly in its vaults but in large part also abroad at some central banks. But let's take a step back. I very much want to make a brief historical excursion to understand what really represented the gold reserves owned by the different countries and how they formed. Mr Pichetto Fratin mentioned this very well earlier: inevitably we start from 1945, from that Bretton Woods committed to getting away from the markets, states and economies the effects of the crisis of 1929, with the gold exchange standard, an agreement of convertibility of the gold coin paper, as Mr Martelli recalled, to stabilize the exchange rates with the USA, which emerged winners from the Second World War, as well as greater holders of gold reserves in the world, as it still is today. This until 1971, when it was set aside what was established in 1945 at Bretton Woods with the separation of the two worlds, first united: on the one hand the infinite paper money, that is, the infinite monetary detachment from the real world, and on the other the real finite, like gold. It is from here that that financial world is born as we know it today, including its degeneration of turbofinance, daughter of an evil deregulation; and it is from here that the wealth separate from the countries and the capital separated from the work is born. We have already stressed this at the time of the approval of citizenship income. But let us return to the crucial knot object of the motions: whose gold is it? Are you from the Bank of Italy? That was not what Trichet thought, at the time governor of the European Central Bank, when he rhetorically asked: Are we sure that gold belongs to the Bank of Italy and not to the Italian people?How, for example, does it happen in France? And neither did Mario Draghi, then governor of the Bank of Italy, when Minister Tremonti, hunting for resources without taxing the Italians further, instead proposed to tax not gold but the gains generated by the holding of gold by the Bank of Italy, which in the meantime had rapidly passed from 22 billion euros in 1999 to 85 billion euros of the time, that is the year 2009. So you solved the puzzle? Have Dragons and Trichet's words solved the matter? On the contrary, the legal reality seems to be even more ambiguous and has its reason and origin in the privatization of the participating banks the Bank of Italy by virtue of that decree Ciampi-Amato (that formidable couple) that marks the main date of the dismantling of the banking system in Italy, that black swan from several parts defined that it had to allow, with its unexpanded wings, the acquisition through the markets and the marketism of the second saving in the world after that of Germany, that is the Italian one. The statute of the Bank of Italy, in fact, at the time established, in Article 1, that it was an institution governed by public law and, in Article 2, that its shares could not be held except by savings banks, emanations of local public institutions or in any case all public institutions at the time. The public character, therefore, was out of the question - that is why Mr Pichetto Fratin is right when he remembers it - but then privatisation takes place and with it the landscape changes radically. Logic would have wished that from these privatizations were excluded the shares of participation in the capital of the Bank of Italy that by law could not be held except by public bodies and those foundations, transformed into ex bank, no longer had this legal profile. Now, instead, we find ourselves having the Bank of Italy that is still under public law whose members, however, in the vast majority are private companies to which, in addition to the capital, also the real estate and the precious goods, also therefore the gold reserves. Nothing says the rules or the statutes. The theme has remained suspended and ambiguous by the Ciampi-Amato couple, so much so that those banks, once public, today belong to international investors because nobody can deny the fact that the two main shareholders banks of the Bank of Italy - Banca Intesa and Unicredit - belong to the market of institutional investors. However, they were able to use the Bank of Italy's public assets as a guarantee, for example, of the ECB's recent requirements on the balance sheets of the banks, which were subjected to the famous stress tests. All the private bank members of the Bank of Italy therefore use as a buffer the revaluation of their shares of the famous IMU-Banca d'Italia decree of the Letta Government, colleague Misiani, that passes from 156,000 euros of the value of those participations to - heard, heard - 7,5 billion euros at the expense of the reserves of the Institute, constituted mainly from the gold. We're closing the circle. Mr Misiani, it is therefore necessary to clarify precisely in order to protect the public interest, especially on the eve of the European elections, by interpreting Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which states that central banks hold and guarantee national gold reserves. The property is in fact something else. Let us try to make a parallelism, since today we have elected the new members of the parliamentary committee for the supervision of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, to whom I wish you well: the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti is also in a similar condition. The billions that the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti manages - let's remember it all because we never repeat it enough - come from the savings of Italian savers collected by the company Poste Italiane and to no one comes to mind that that savings is of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti; from the Cassa it is only managed. Nothing shocking, colleagues, so much so that in the device of our motion the Government undertakes to take the appropriate initiatives in order to define the ownership of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy, in compliance with European legislation. More precisely, I would like to clarify, simply recalling the origin, the formation and therefore the ownership of those reserves, as indicated by other legal systems of European countries, such as the statutes of the Belgian or Dutch or Spanish central bank. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President, even though we are not talking about small things. Precisely in Article 31 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, in particular in paragraph 2, which I invite you to read well, reference is made to the foreign reserve assets that remain to the national central banks after the transfers, thus highlighting no possible interference of European law with the property and title under which the national central banks hold such reserves, including gold reserves. This leaves the determination of the issue in the field of national law. It is therefore precisely the statements of Governor Visco that are subversive of the prescriptions of the European system; a good paradox, my colleague, Mr Misiani, that only a prudent and prudent, but also courageous, legislator can overcome, as exactly the Bagnai motion and the bill of the colleague Borghi in the House do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u160	Senator Bonfrisco, as for his colleagues, when there is one minute of warning so as to settle down with time and in any case, as for his colleagues, I gave you additional time to conclude properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u161	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students of the 4th Institute including Giacomo Leopardi of Messina, who attend our work. [[Applause.]] With equal warmth we greet the representatives of the International Centre for European Formation (CIFE) and the Academy for Dialogue and Evangelization in Vienna, who also attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u162	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: can the reserves be sold? I say immediately that they cannot be because they guarantee the system for the issuance of money for loans and for trust. I'll try to explain it. Too much power, in my opinion, has been given with Parliament's approval in recent years to the ECB; we have seen it when it came to approving the decree concerning Banca Carige two months ago. Too much power: yet, some political force says that more must be given away, that all monetary, financial and even fiscal power must be given away. In this I am more sovereignist and populist than sovereignists and populists and I am opposed. We keep in mind that we have the fiscal compact on our heads. All of you, colleagues, know what it is; but if you have forgotten it, I invite you to go over it again. It was approved in 2012 and I believe that the only Member who did not vote for it was Guido Crosetto, who comes from my land. What's left of the Bank of Italy? There is still banking supervision, which divides with CONSOB and on which it should be made clear, asking us if it is good and what are the competences. I believe that bank supervision, as far as responsibility is concerned, is responsible for 99% of the Bank of Italy and 1% of Consob. It also has the responsibility to manage and maneuver debt, through which it produces a profit, which has already been quantified by my colleague Pichetto Fratin in 5,7 billion euros net, in 2018, in favor of the State, which is not a small figure in the state budget and which has increased compared to the profit of 2017, which was 2,3 billion euros. These are the things we need to know and remember. No doubt all my colleagues know them, but I would like to remind myself and the House of them. As far as the members are concerned - as has already been pointed out by my colleague Pichetto Fratin - are the large banks, banking foundations and other public institutions. Carige is the fifth in terms of importance: its share was worth EUR 300 million and I had asked, in my speech on the measure on Banca Carige - but perhaps it is my ignorance - if those EUR 300 million could be monetised in order to provide the institution with liquidity. The Bank of Italy also guarantees other banks, guarantees confidence in general and guarantees public debt. It guarantees the other banks as a system, because that of banks is a delicate sector, even when it may not please you, of which we cannot do without, even when it seems exaggerated in its way of operating, with the commissions and the active and passive rates. I remember, to a lady who always asked me if her 100,000 euros were to keep them in the bank or under the pillow, I replied that, if she had brought them home, no one would help her monitor them and would not know what to do with them later. If you take them home, the 100,000 euros are no longer worth anything: it is the Bank of Italy that guarantees the value of those pieces of paper. As far as trust is concerned, as you know in the economy, it accounts for more than 50% of the total. I don't know how to quantify it, but it matters a lot, it counts more than numbers. Let us think of the confidence in general and also of the commercial confidence of Italy. Try asking the companies that import and export what guarantees they must give in certain fields, if they are Italian, because as such they enjoy less confidence. An account is to make an opening of credit and an advance payment, an account is to have the confidence of the system, of Italy, not to do these operations that cost. The Bank of Italy guarantees the public debt, and this is the problem. I have promoted a conference, which I will try to achieve also in other areas, which can be titled: Attack on debt: institution fund saves Italy..., on the proposal of Panerai, Savona and others, that I have already submitted to the Government and that I want to submit, as soon as there is the opportunity, also to the Assembly. In thirty seconds I could summarize as follows: the establishment of a public company, in which to bring together the dismissable real estate assets; the subscription of shares by banks and savers, with a certain rate. With this subscription the debt is reduced, for amounts ranging from 250 to 300 billion euros. A part could be earmarked for investment and the shares will be returned with the disposal of the assets over twenty or thirty years, real estate without destination constraints. This does the Bank of Italy but, if it sells gold and if it is not its, how can it guarantee it? How can you repay the debt for EUR 80, 90 or 100 billion, depending on the price we give? I have calculated - everyone makes his own accounts - that, at EUR 37 per gram, according to yesterday's quotation, the value is 85 billion. As has already been said, if you put in this amount of gold, the price would collapse and credibility and trust would collapse. You'll understand. I think we can agree on that. As far as the question of where he is held is concerned, 5 billion are in Frankfurt and the others I do not know. Someone tells me it's all in Italy; he was once in Switzerland and a little bit in America, but the government might say so. So, it's bank guarantees, trust in the system, public debt. The motion proposed by the majority would like to clarify who the property is. We can try to do this, but Trichet said one thing; the director of Banca d'Italia Rossi, a few days ago, said another. If an emergency happens - gold is a reserve and a guarantee - can the government in office at that time make a decree that responds to the military code of peace or war? It does the same because the emergency is of the state. The government says here - it is represented today by the Undersecretary Villarosa; I thought Vice Minister Castelli came because of competence, but perhaps I am wrong, and it is fine the Undersecretary Villarosa, who closely follows us in the Committee on Finance - to the citizens and the people - someone represents the citizens, while others represent the people, depending on the political visions - urbi et orbi - I say - that it is not sold because it cannot be sold. It is a guarantee and, however - as I promised in the first speeches in this House - we attack the public debt, otherwise the public debt will attack us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u163	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u164	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that no one in the majority has ever said that they want to use the gold reserves for the payment of public debt or to cover current expenditure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] If you make a similar statement and then blame the majority of the increase in the spread and distrust of the markets towards Italy, it is always a wrong concept. We never said that. We are talking about the gold reserves, the gold held at the Bank of Italy. And I use the term "detained" because nowhere is it written about who gold is. In 1893 the three banks (the National Bank of the Kingdom of Italy, the Tuscan National Bank and the Tuscan Bank of Credit) created the Bank of Italy and put together the reserves; in 1926, with the allocation of the exclusive monopoly of issues to the Bank of Italy, the Banco di Napoli and the Banco di Sicilia sold their reserves to the Bank of Italy. And they did this because the reserves serve for the financial stability of the state. It was therefore a logical consideration to think that the gold held in Banca d'Italia was of the Italians. It was a logical consideration. However, things change: Italy is no longer a single State, because it entered the European Community first and then the European Union. And there it changes, because the gold held by the Bank of Italy becomes somehow dedicated to the financial stability of the European Union. That gold, however, belongs to Italy, for which, in the absence of specific legislation, it is therefore right the commitment that is being asked of the Government, because we can come to a logical conclusion, but we have always thought that, in order to do things properly, we must reason within the European Union that, if it were also a united Europe, it would be better. In the majority motion, the Government undertakes to take appropriate steps to define the ownership of the gold reserves. Indeed, in his reply, the President-in-Office of the Council, Count, rightly states that, if the setting up of the Banca d'Italia's golden property is to be modified by means of an intervention by the legislator - so that Parliament is not deprived of the possibility to legislate in this respect - regulatory action should be assessed, in terms of compatibility, with the basic principles governing the system of the European System of Central Banks. Let us say that the European System of Central Banks decides to blow it up and the European Union is dissolved, so there is no longer the European Central Bank and we no longer have the euro. Where do the gold reserves go and how do they return to the ownership of the State and, therefore, guarantee the stability of Italy? It's not written anywhere. I would remind you that Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union says that there can be no influence on management and, in fact, we never speak of the motion to interfere with the independence of the Bank of Italy, because we are the first ones who have always talked about the independence of the Bank of Italy and that is why we have often irritated ourselves with the previous Government when it made measures that were not really about the independence of the Bank of Italy. When then in the motion we ask to understand if we can bring back the gold reserves held abroad is in relation precisely to the concept I spoke about earlier: how much does it cost to bring back the gold reserves in Italy? Since we have seen what is happening with the Brexit affair - and I do not mean that the majority want to leave the European Union, I have never said it and no one has ever said it - if things are clear, it is always better for everyone. With regard to the motions presented by the oppositions, that of the Forza Italia Group commits the Government to the public permanence of the ownership of the gold reserves, that is, of all of us, of the State. Then there is that of the Democratic Party - and I return to the reasoning of earlier - which, when it commits the Government to exclude the adoption of any intervention, undermines credibility. I believe that the quietest and most in line motion compared to what we have to build in Europe is that of the majority, to bring back a state, which has changed and entered the European Union, to re-establish today rules guaranteeing that financial stability is mainly that of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u165	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u166	Mr President, I am against the motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 3. 77, 100 and 107. On the other hand, I am in favour of motion 104.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u167	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u170	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak immediately because of a subsequent institutional commitment in the Koch room. Europe has often been mentioned in this debate. The first European, according to Pope Benedict XVI, was San Colombano, the first to have mentioned the unity of the European people, the first of many of our intellectuals. The first Europeanist we can probably consider was Ludovico il Moro. I have already remembered in this House his method, which was to lean on Carlo di Valois to solve a small problem he had in his family, with the consequences that we then saw. In the political debate over the last few years in Italy, how many times have we been reminded of our current opposition to European best practices? This call, however, is understood more and more every day that it was only instrumental, that it had only an aim of internal political struggle, exactly as the follow-up to certain journalistic fake news that are daughters, perhaps, of functional illiteracy, of the inability to distinguish between property and detention, between State and Government, between independence and autonomy, or perhaps are daughters of a certain political malice that tries to create a bit of noise to put the Government in trouble. Instead, we distance ourselves from the liturgical Europeanism of the Ludovico il Moro fan club and want something different: a pragmatic Europeanism. I have already said and I think that I will often repeat that pragmatic Europeanism goes through the adaptation of our institutions to those of Europe and the spirit of the motion goes exactly in this direction. Of course, we in Europe do not like everything and I will give you an example of what we do not like, since the independence of our central bank has been evoked. I'll give you a short list of central bank governors from other countries. We take Vitor Constâncio, former Vice President of the ECB: politician, secretary of the Socialist Party, candidate Premier, lost the elections and became Governor of the central bank of his country. Can you imagine a similar path here? I don't think so. Let us take the former Vice President of the ECB de Guindos, who has always been a political manager, a member of the People's Party, Undersecretary, Minister; let us think of Sylvie Goulard, who was Minister of Defence with Macron and resigned because of a scandal over a problem related to assistants to the European Parliament. In other countries, central banks have shown that they are close to politics, and not always at the best of politics. In the history of our central bank, there have been no incidents of contiguity of this kind, and we are proud to vindicate it and we like that, as Mrs Bottici said. I like to be able to remember that this majority, when it had to intervene to remedy some distortions of some reforms that we found ourselves having to manage, that we had "on the grumpone," found in our central bank an interlocutor - in particular, I would like to remind Dr. Salvatore Rossi - that, although in the diversity, of course, of the visions, he was able to provide us with support, he was able to listen to our reasons and help us improve reforms that, according to all the actors involved, needed to be improved. I will not be here to tell you why I will vote in favour of the obvious, but I want to make a couple of comments on what does not convince me in the other motions, otherwise I would seem schizophrenic. The four motions don't all say the same thing. In the meantime, I would like to start with the motion of our right-wing opposition, which is that of our colleagues in Forza Italia. I do not believe that it is appropriate to vote on a commitment to exclude any hypothesis of sale or disposal of gold reserves for the purposes of sterilization of safeguard clauses, for the simple reason that this hypothesis has come to mind only to some journalists who have little interest in the functioning of the Italian banking system and the European banking system. This hypothesis never occurred to us for several reasons, including what is impossible. Not that selling central bank gold never occurred to anyone. Someone came to mind. If you go to pick up the Newspaper of September 15, 2014, there is a beautiful article, with a very ambitious title: "New deal for billions: we sell the gold of Europe", signed by our colleague Renato Brunetta, who proposed to take the gold of the central bank to finance an investment plan. Perhaps, however, Mr Brunetta, who is also an economist, does not know how the system works. Peter Praet explained to him, in his tweet of 16.42 on 12 March 2019, which is in the ECB's twitter feed. There Peter Praet says something very simple: as a central bank we can create money. So if the ECB wanted to fund an investment plan, it could do it without selling any gold. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And this never occurred to us: I wish it were clear. It goes without saying that the idea that gold reserves have the function of strengthening confidence in the stability of the financial system is also a somewhat blurred notion. We're out of the gold standard. We're out of the gold exchange standard. It happened many years ago, but since we're senators, we were all there, and if we don't remember, it's written in history books. I mean Nixon, of course. I am also struck by one aspect, which is partly similar, even in the motion by my colleagues from our left-wing opposition. Meanwhile, here we continue to confuse autonomy with independence. What independence is, I said it. Autonomy - I am sorry to say - is the power to give laws to oneself. Now this autonomy, self-criticism, self-declaration, the Bank of Italy does not have it. The laws of its system are passed by this Parliament. If this is the case, they will be re-voted, in case they give scope to misunderstandings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I am not saying that there is - having just expressed the reasons for my satisfaction and interaction, in the institutional capacity of President of the Finance Commission, with high supervisory authority - but where there was ever a perception that something in our central bank could be improved, I recall that this Parliament - a small detail - is sovereign or feels that it can prove that it is. Therefore, autonomy is absolutely out of the debate. Independence is in the debate and will be discussed again. I regret, however, that my colleagues, of whom I appreciate the competence and whose historical reconstruction contained in their motion I greatly appreciate, have made an uncompromising commitment, not to sell family jewels, even in parliamentary acts. The only cause, the only pretext, the only source of this commitment is the functional illiteracy of some exponents of the prestigious foreign press, who, when they read that the reserves are owned by the State, have translated into their mind: the Government wants to sell gold. I do not see the logical relevance between these two propositions, but in an attempt to create a bit of volatility on the markets from which the friends of those nice and prestigious Anglo-Saxon journalists can profit. If you take this fake and put it on a motion, I honestly find it a little inappropriate. As far as the motion by our colleagues from the right-wing opposition is concerned, those who call on us to consider the timely adoption of a legislative act, I would point out that the act is already filed with a competent parliamentary committee, the Finance Committee of the House of Deputies. So we thank them, but the process is already under way. We also believe that the appropriate steps must be taken to ensure that reserves are brought back into national territory. We sincerely disagree with the arguments of those who have argued that there should be a diversification of risk. However, it is another matter of not being in a state of affairs and not being in a position to handle it in case circumstances need to change. To conclude, another thing that sincerely motivates me to vote against the motion of Brothers of Italy is the phrase in which it is said that, in the opinion of the proposers, gold should be returned to the State. But gold must not be returned to the state, because gold is of the state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is also the way of exposing things that then creates misunderstandings. Let us not put ourselves, who are parliamentarians and have the power and the technical capacity to deal with certain issues, at the level of those who, perhaps instrumentally or perhaps because of cultural deficits, then create a great controversy in the media, essentially around nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u173	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President, I shall abstain on the motions for the first signature of Mr Bernini and Mr D'Alfonso. I shall vote against the first signature of Mr Fazzolari's motion and, with particular concern, against the motion which he sees as the first signatories of Mr Bagnai and Mr Bottici. Why worry? All of this debate today in Italy is pleonastic and yet dangerous. It is pleonastic after the statements made last February 21 to the House by the President of the Count Council, and yet dangerous. Dangerous for who? It is so for Italian citizens, for businesses, for savers, for taxpayers. Why is she dangerous? Perhaps because of currency, gold, currencies, central banks we should not speak openly or we should speak only underneath in ethereal environments, which someone calls the strong powers? Absolutely not. It is dangerous this discussion in Italy today because it is promoted by you colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. In the first draft of your government contract, which led to the formation of the Government, in May 2018, you will remember the point on the cancellation of €250 billion of government bonds held by the European Central Bank. That position showed little knowledge of the relationship between European monetary union and the Member States, but above all it showed great indifference to what is considered a problem not seen by the Italians throughout Europe and in a large part of the world, namely that the public debt and the public deficit, which may have some positive effects in the short term, are, however, structurally a very serious problem in these dimensions, whether there are or there are no European constraints. Well, this position was then quickly re-entered and was not present in the second version and in the further drafts. But you can understand - and I think many of you know anyway - that that statement has been carved into marble, into the minds of political authorities in other countries and market operators, even when it has been deleted. Well, since then, the rise in interest rates has begun and leads us today to have a spread, certainly low compared to the historical peaks touched, but that today in Italy is 270, when Spain is 115 and France 39. And all this happens on the shoulders of Italian savers, businesses and taxpayers, who pay huge amounts for the service of public debt. That is why - in my humble but very convinced opinion - this debate is a pleonastic one in general and is done today in Italy when the whole world wonders about why the Italian authorities and politics are not doing something to address issues that are raised in the world more than in Italy. Secondly, this debate is dangerous, because it denotes with the majority - it would not be a problem if it were with others - a lightness: in fact, if we want this debate today with certain results, unfortunately no one will think it is not for some second purpose. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u176	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, once in a while the debate on the issue of gold reserves has emerged, in a cyclical way and not only in our country. As far as my experience is concerned, it has also emerged in the short term term 2006-2008. I would remind you that even at European level, in the debate on the rescue mechanisms of the European countries in difficulty, the story of the gold reserves re-emerged. Even then, some German ultra-conservative economists, who - as you will unfortunately remember - were very present at the time in the debate, asked that, in the case of a European rescue plan, the country's main assets and gold reserves in difficulty be seized and provided as collateral and compensation to other states. I remember this to say that it is a cyclical issue. The problem, however, is the debate today, at this time. The Brothers of Italy Group has tabled its motion and not by chance in the interventions of its members has been referred to some positions taken by the League in this regard (I am thinking of Senator Borghi's statement). Honestly, however, I do not understand why the narrative has been built on who owns the gold reserves and also on the possibility of their sale, ensuring that the debate we have held today was characterized by a constant ambiguity, an ambiguity that they consider absolutely dangerous. This is, of course, also about the majority motion. I do not want to quote again Conte's words in response to the question time - they express his point of view, but he is always the President of the Council - with which he would have clarified the matter of ownership of national reserves. It is clear to all, however, that, as the history of our country was, this aspect changed at the end of the 1960s and even more so at the time when the changeover to the euro took place. That's the point. If the motions we are debating are once again intended to say that Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not good for us, that we are dealing with this issue once and for all, it is clear. And ambiguity is also in many motions. However, from this point of view, Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines the holding and management of official reserves. Then we all know perfectly well that in Europe too the story of gold reserves remained unclear at the time of the creation of the European Central Bank, and this was implied, that is, every state has continued to manage this reality. But I come back to the political point: why are we having a debate like this? Where are we going with this? The political point is absolutely that. But then I wonder why in the majority motion - even if you ask what is wrong with it - you have not written, silenced all the confused statements that occasionally emerge, that there is the inalienability of the gold reserves, as Mr Martelli proposed before. Why, as well as doing some kind of audit to figure out where the reserves are, did you not put in writing that they are not at all to be put on the market and there is not even remotely the possibility of selling? That's the point. Ambiguity lies precisely in this. At a difficult time for the country - we have seen the economic data, they are the ones - I wonder what signal we give to the outside by having such a discussion, to understand if we want to intervene to clarify with normative tools and define once and for all clearly the property of the gold reserves, which seems evident to us. Indeed, it is clear to everyone - it is implicit, but also quite explicit - that it is certainly of the State and of course - as President Conte has also replied - it is in the asset structure of the Bank of Italy. On this point there is also the other not said, the other fundamental ambiguity on the matter that concerns the relationship with the Bank of Italy. The point, however, is exactly political: why are we having a debate like this today? Many times the opposition motions are presented, but then you never get to discuss them. Why are we having this kind of discussion? Do they want to send signals? They're sending out the wrong signals. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Grasso]] Everyone knows that perfectly well. In Rome we say something like: do you bring gold to the pawnshop? If only you give signals like these, you communicate an extreme weakness, with everything that this entails. Then you can have all the arguments. You know perfectly well what we think, we have written many times in our motions for resolutions how we would also like to change the ECB's structure at European level; how to intervene to restore a very different political force to Europe than the choices that have been made lately. This is therefore a debate which, as far as we are concerned, is and will continue to be held at the time of the European elections. However, in today's debate there is at the same time ambiguity and clarity in the signals that are given externally very dangerous. This means that we will vote strongly against motions no. 77 and 104. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u179	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, today we are discussing this issue, which seems important to me, because Brothers of Italy have asked for it. Senator De Petris asked why we have come to talk about this: because Brothers of Italy filed this motion months ago and, as we know, every Group has the power to bring some issues to the Assembly and we chose this, because we consider it fundamental. Therefore, if we are talking today about gold reserves in the Italian Parliament, it is only thanks to Brothers of Italy and I hope that no one will take this possibility away from us. I am also saying this to clarify what the press reports on those who claim to have tabled a motion on gold reserves today. Brothers of Italy has filed a motion in line with the battles it has been doing for years, to reaffirm that the gold reserves held by Bank of Italy are owned by the Italian State and the Italian people and not by Bankitalia. This is, in fact, an obvious thing. There is a quote, which has recently become famous, by Gilbert K. Chesterton reciting: Fires will be turned on to testify that two plus two is four. Swords will be drawn to show that the leaves are green in summer. Well, and motions will be presented to reaffirm that the gold of the Homeland is of the Homeland and not of the bankers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] But we do not say this, that we are dangerous patriots; this is written in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in Article 127. I remind Senator Monti, probably very careful when he wants, a little less careful in other circumstances. Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) holds and manages the official reserves of the Member States. But it is so clear that France, which does not seem to me to be a subversive country, has a law that makes it clear that the Banque de France holds and manages the gold reserves owned by the French State; so much so that on the Banque de France website there is also a nice proportion, in which it is clarified that each French is indirectly owner of 38 grams of gold. Only in Italy is there this ambiguity; and why? Because there is an attempt to complete the biggest scam in Italy's history, to steal the gold of Italians and hand it over to bankers. This is the operation. Senator Pichetto Fratin and Senator Bonfrisco explained the various passages that led to this madness. We had a first phase in the 1990s, in which the owners of the Bank of Italy become private; then we have a second stage (not by chance made by the Letta Government), in which, with the revaluation of the shares of Bankitalia, we work not only a gift of 7 and a half billion to the banks (this would be the least: we are accustomed to the gifts made to the banks from the left), but also poses a dangerous principle: it connects the share of Bankitalia's possession to a value and then opens the door to ensure that those who hold the shares of Bankitalia are, in some way, also titled to talk about the property of the same. In fact, in 2014 Giorgia Meloni, on the occasion of the conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 2013, presented an agenda to specify that the gold reserves remained the property of the State. Have you done this scumbag of the IMU-Banca d'Italia decree? Let us at least specify that the gold reserves are of the State, of the people, and not of the private ones. On that occasion the Government replied that the agenda was not acceptable because Brothers of Italy was asking for an obvious: it was so obvious that the gold reserves were owned by the State and not by Bankitalia that the agenda on Banca d'Italia was not put to the vote. Well, it was so obvious that now on the Bankitalia website it is stated that Bankitalia holds and manages national reserves in currency and gold and that the law assigns the ownership of the reserves to the Bank of Italy. This is a fake: there is no national or European system that assigns ownership of gold reserves to Bankitalia. I remind Bankitalia that there is also an article in the Civil Code with criminal relevance (Article 2621) relating to the crime of false social communications. I take advantage of this intervention to incite to Banca d'Italia to correct this falsehood, otherwise Brothers of Italy will proceed with the appropriate ways. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u180	Senator Fazzolari, I'd say you're a little on the edge, not so much of the time, but for the tenor of your speech. It's from the FDI Group. That's what you say. Yes, I say that because I'm presiding, Senator. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u181	We stop the clock and make the actual game time, like in rugby. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm talking about tones. FAZZOLARI (FdI). This is why Brothers of Italy, as Senator Pichetto Fratin recalled, has already filed a bill for the nationalization of Bankitalia. This is so subversive - I tell my colleagues in Forza Italia - that a similar bill was deposited in 2005 by the then Minister Tremonti, so we are not inventing anything new. Today we present a motion to reaffirm that the gold of the Homeland belongs to the Homeland. We are presented with a series of motions to talk about anything else and not put our face in this respect. We have the PD motion, which is so welcome that we would be tempted to vote in favour. Instead we will abstain for the sake of Homeland, because the motion of PD does not speak of the property of the reserves, but reiterates all the obviousities concerning Bankitalia. But this is not the place. We appreciate the motion of Forza Italia, however, saying that the gold reserves must be of a public nature, do not remove the great misunderstanding of those who want to play on the misunderstanding of Bankitalia public subject and not declare the gold reserves owned by the State. And we come to the grotesque majority motion, because here we have a majority that has the enormous strategy of not expressing itself on the great divisive themes. We've already seen it with the global compact and now we're seeing it again with the gold reserves. The majority motion is something wonderful and I want to read it: the Government is committed to taking appropriate steps to define the ownership of the gold reserves. That is, the majority of government asks the government to say whose gold reserves are. Mr President, you told me that I'm on the edge and I don't know whether or not you can say "superfuck."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u182	No, you can't say that, Senator. This is the second time I've called you back. You are in the Senate Chamber, so try to have a proper language, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u183	In the proper language we say that it is a mockery, because the majority can submit a motion in which they say whether the gold reserves are of the State or are of Bankitalia, or can vote in favour or against the motion of Brothers of Italy. But he cannot mock Parliament and the country by submitting a motion in which he asks the government to tell himself who the gold reserves are. Also because President Conte of whom the gold reserves are has already said so in this House. Responding during a question time to Brothers of Italy, Prime Minister Conte stated that, since the gold reserves have always been booked to the assets of Bankitalia's balance sheet, they are therefore owned by Bankitalia. I'm afraid Premier Count was ill-advised. This aspect is also more than clarified in the French law, which specifies on the gold reserves that Banque de France manages the gold reserves owned by the French State and puts them under the active heading of its balance sheet in the arrangements agreed with the French State. So we invite Count not to give in good whatever is said to him. Golden reserves are the property of the state because that is what common sense says, because that is what history says, because that is what the EU treaties say, because that is what the other states of the eurozone have done, and so the chatter is now at zero. Brothers of Italy has tabled a motion that does not lend itself to misunderstandings. We call for it to be reiterated that the gold reserves belong to the State and the people and not to Bankitalia and bankers. Now it is up to each of the present to decide whether to take sides for the greatest scam and to steal the gold of the Italians or to defend the national interest and the Italian people. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u186	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I rise to declare our vote and to state the reasoning that is needed. The motions we have heard - ours and those put forward by the other parliamentary groups - have put the question of the relationship between the central banks, the European Central Bank, the autonomy of our central bank and the European Central Bank at the centre, such as the momentary realization of wood, and have also raised important questions about which we cannot be immature or extravagant. In the meantime, I would like to point out that on this political side the maturity has been reached since 1980-81, when we have established that there is a need to distinguish between the Italian central bank and the Ministry of the Treasury, a distinction and separation that has not been a conference operation but an operation of distinction and divorce, as has been regulated by law, because for the financial stability of that operation, there was a need for separation. But this level of questioning that repeatedly returns, like almost a karst river, goes hand in hand with questions that this Parliament and the political debate have also put on the table in the past. I recall, for example, as a reader of the press at the time, that an authoritative figure of our order posed a great question: who presides and what does the Supreme Council of Defense do? [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u187	Excuse me, Senator D'alfonso. Colleagues, there's a part of the hemicycle talking too loudly. We have been very disciplined and careful so far. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u188	D'ALFONSO (PD). Thank you, Mr President, although I believe that my tone of voice is in itself the solution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I said that over the years, this Parliament, but also the political debate, have put the most varied issues, even with relevance. I recalled by the esteemed President Cossiga the question of the Supreme Defence Council, or even, earlier (we speak now of a century ago) an authoritative member of this Parliament, Silvio Spaventa, posed the question of who was the property of civic uses. I think that the people most entitled to wisdom can meet me with respect to that legal, political and institutional curiosity. I remember the lines of time with regard to these questions by the then oppositions who asked why Mr Spaventa raised the question of who was the property of civic uses. And he said that having nothing else to do at the moment, he was trying to resolve the great anxieties of civil law, public law and also of the law of law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not believe that we are in such a condition, that there is no other knot to be dissolved or other initiative to be cultivated, elaborated and assumed, or other competition to be carried out to save our economy, to organize spaces for our active policies in favour of businesses, of the entrepreneurial birth, for a permanent training offer or for the great issue of infrastructure. We are completely out of today's debate on the TEN-T networks that are expanding in other parts of Europe. In Italy, however, we ask ourselves the question, which is an aesthetic and narcissistic karst river, of who is the property of the gold reserves. In this respect it is not difficult to find a correct and consistent posture; in the meantime there is the answer of the President of the Council of Ministers, not of the Count lawyer, who specifies the qualification of custody, detention and then also addresses the other insurgent issue of property. It is a response given in Parliament, during the current parliamentary term, by the President of the Council of Ministers sought, obtained and in effect, despite the guardianship of two important Vice Presidents. In addition to President Conte's answer, which clarifies in the final part of the question, using exactly the conceptual category of ownership, there is the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that in Articles 127, 130 and 131 specifies exactly what it is, what the composition of the conduct that central governments must have with respect to the central banks and what can be achieved with regard to the European Central Bank as well. There is an absolute clarification that the gold reserves allow life as an independent body of our central bank and also the competition with respect to the European Central Bank. What good is this level of debate then? If we were in a Chamber of Criminal Justice, it would appear that prima facie emerges the intention behind it, because we must read both the production of the initiatives of the motions, but also the words that are gathered in the political interventions. It is not true that there is neutrality. It is not true that we are in a neutral phase. Let us think, for example, of the need to cover safeguard clauses. The hole that has been further determined in the state budget suggests that the use of those resources can be a solution and we know that the independence of the central bank, both in its national bank version and in its European bank version, is written in the sacred texts of the economy. I even found a writing by David Ricardo, which is not the restaurant on Via della Crocetta. In this script Ricardo states that those who are in charge of the use and production of the currency must have, as commissioners, absolute independence, even immortality, and this is the reason why the Governor of the Bank of Italy was up to a certain point an assignment for life. The inevitability of Ricardo's intuition to determine independence from the government of politics, which is different from the statehood of the order. We know, however, that the availability of gold resources in the hands of the central bank's owners and users means stability; if it drags itself and goes to transcend into the hands of the government and the legislature of the moment, there is a risk of a use that is ad usum of those who at that time may have political interest. Beniamino Andreatta, in 1980-1981, determined the divorce with the then Governor. It was not an operation of fantasy, of narcissism or of cultural moment; the separation was a structural operation and was the first piece and the first investment for what was then carried out in European. We cannot now, in a non-neutral moment, discuss everything again. Our motion first raises the question of the confirmation of independence and its full functionality, as a central bank, as a European bank and in the system of central banks. Secondly, it raises the other major issue of the agreement between central banks on the stability of the gold market. This was also explained by our colleague, Senator Martelli, when he pointed out that paying on the market the gold quantity of central banks would lead to a deterioration of value. Then there is a third question, which is not to be overcome by the need for the moment to go to draw, for more or less institutional policies. We must free the Bank of Italy and its concept of a golden reserve from the political debate of the moment. We must not talk about it, because the game is closed, as President Conte said. My speech is intended to explain our motion, but also to debilitate the other motions and find another agenda, in which to pour the imagination of the President of the Finance and Treasury Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u191	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have expected a few more words from the Government and its representative on this subject, which is certainly an interesting subject. He merely expressed the position of the Government and the majority in relation to the motions. Surely it could have filled it with a few more elements, so in an explanation of vote we could have better expressed the opposition's position, even in relation to that of the Government. The question of ownership of the gold reserves, distinct from that of detention or management, is certainly an interesting topic and at the heart of the political debate and I acknowledge that my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy Group have brought this issue out. We are also in favour of pointing out, through every initiative, that it can put in black and white to those who are responsible for the ownership of the right to property and to those who are merely in detention. It is therefore an interesting subject and Forza Italia, when it comes to national interests, certainly does not refrain from the debate and participates. We have therefore written in our motion what commitments we are proposing and which we urge Members to approve. However, the subject cannot be considered in its own right, but it must necessarily be included in the political and media debate that has taken place over the past few weeks. Therefore, our feeling is that the formal aspect, aimed at identifying a rule that makes clarity about this issue, can be a key to the government's access, compared to a much broader and more substantial speech. To clarify more clearly, our impression is that, once it is possible to recognize, even through a rule, the ownership of the gold reserves by the State and not by the Bank of Italy, in the light of this formal recognition, the ruler can use this public heritage for whatever use he considers necessary at a given time. So, at this point, the more than formal issue risks becoming of a substantial nature, of a substance that certainly does not see us at all in agreement, because it must be considered the political debate and the statements must be taken into account by important representatives of the Government. Let us recall the statements made by some members of the Government that envisaged the possibility of using, in any form, even guarantees today, the gold reserves, for example, to sterilize the forthcoming safeguard clauses in relation to VAT. It is a position that we certainly do not like and, therefore, it is absolutely not acceptable. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] The Italian gold reserve - we all know - is the amount of gold that Banca d'Italia holds in its vaults. It holds it both as a guarantee of the currency in circulation and as a security for unforeseen events. We all know that today at current value the quantity of gold reserves is approximately EUR 90 billion. We have already said in this House with other colleagues in other speeches that the Bank of Italy is the fourth holder of gold reserves in the world and the third as a country and that today the gold reserves are held a few hundred meters from here, in via Nazionale at Palazzo Koch. Other small amounts are held in Basel, London and New York. These small quantities are abroad because there have been agreements or loan guarantees made in the past with other countries. Bringing them back to our country today is also a matter of security. Diversifying detention in other countries can also be synonymous with guarantee against possible theft. Since the current banknotes are no longer converted into gold, as in the past, the gold reserves now acquire a symbolic value of stability of the Italian financial system and security. The ability of Italy to provide guarantees to our trading partners today and, in particular, to the ECB also depends very much on the gold reserves. As Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states, state gold serves to strengthen confidence in the stability of the Italian financial system and the euro system. To say today, therefore, that gold belongs to Italians is certainly a strong statement, but in essence it is disassembled by the fact that today Italy with the Treaties of the Union has made commitments and, therefore, those gold reserves today are a guarantee not of the interests of other countries, but a guarantee of Italy in the monetary system not only European and, as I said, for our trading partners. Since then, Italy has armored these reserves as a guarantee of the solvency, in particular, of our public debt. At this moment our national government, instead of seriously studying an expansionary economic maneuver rather than a depressive one, finds itself with the results of the economic maneuver approved in December. They are seen with the water to the throat and, therefore, they think to put their hands on the bars of our Italy in order to be able to pay the public debt and the debts that this Government is contracting with the measures that it has launched for public debt and current expenditure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The basic question is this: is it ever possible today to make certain statements by government representatives and talk about using or demobilising the gold reserves to cover the public debt? We have said - we can easily count - that the gold reserves today amount to about EUR 90 billion. Italy has a public debt of over 2,400 billion. You do the least part of it that they'll cover. It's like selling our own house to go on a vacation or, even better, selling our grandmother's gold so we can go out for dinner one night. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are unhealthy ideas that come to the head of this government. It is useless; it is a drop in the sea and an operation absolutely meaningless. Mr President, I would like to make a few more general points, since we are talking about the system, banks, the Bank of Italy, autonomy and the ECB. I would also like to reflect on the statements made by many members of this majority and, above all, by the Movimento 5 Stars on the idea they have of the banking sector. Many times the banking sector is demonized and others protected. Let us remember the latest events, especially in this House, including the decree-law on Banca Carige. I do not want to remind you of the outstanding issue of thousands of savers who have not received a single penny of euro reimbursement, of the measures that this Government has wronged and of the individual savings plans (PIR), which have been absolutely blocked. I want to refer only to the last example in order of time, the one concerning the judgment of the European Court of Justice that has seen Italy today and, in this case, the Banca Popolare di Bari and Banca d'Italia, win an appeal. Until a few days ago they were institutions of credit demonized by representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars; Today they are credit institutions of which they are said to have done well. It is enough, therefore, with this bipolar attitude on the part of representatives of the 5 Star Movement, who must tell us clearly what their position is with regard to banks and the banking system. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Of course, Mr President, in order to follow a line, one should first of all have a thought. The feeling is that on the subject, on the other hand, the Government and the majority of the Giallorossi press ahead with a bit of the popular moods and riding also the legitimate protests of the savers, without however the necessary deepening of the individual events, which should instead be propedeutic to any judgment. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the fact that our motion is very clear precisely because, as other representatives have also said, we do not know where we are going today. In any case, we believe that the debate is going well, as well as all the rules that can clarify this situation, but we must be careful about the use of gold reserves. I would therefore like to say to the Government that in the future it will pay more attention to these issues of social impact, such as today's one concerning the confidence of citizens in banking institutions, perhaps also studying a little more the rules and deepening the individual cases. Otherwise, I would like to make a joke by paraphrasing the Nobel Prize-winning economist von Hayek, who said that if they understood economics, they would not be socialists. Maybe if the triggers understood banks, they wouldn't be triggers. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u194	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, we need to make some history about the gold of the Bank of Italy. No more inquiring. I have heard so many inaccuracies, but just go to the website of the Bank of Italy, to the chapter dedicated to the historical evolution of the gold reserves, to know that in 1893 the merger of the three issuing institutions (National Bank of the Kingdom of Italy, Tuscan National Bank, Tuscan Bank of credit) gave life to the Bank of Italy, with its initial gold endowment of 78 tons of gold, of which 86 percent of the National Bank of the Kingdom. In 1926, with the allocation of the exclusive monopoly of issues to Banca d'Italia - the other banks no longer beat currency - Banco di Napoli and Banco di Sicilia sold their gold reserves, equal to about 70 tons from Banco di Napoli. At the close of the first balance sheet at 30 June 1946, the ITU (Italian Exchange Office) held 1.8 tonnes of gold sold by the Banque de France. During the following years, from 1951 to 1960, the UIC acquired large quantities of gold to accumulate just under 2,000 tons. In 1960 and 1965 two transfers were made from the reserves of the Italian Office to those of the Bank of Italy, for a total of 1,890 tonnes, on the basis of the principle that the Bank recognized the holding of the gold reserves - beware of well-being, detention and non-property - and to the UIC the management of the currency reserves, bringing the amount of the bank reserves to 2,136 tons. Between 1966 and 1970 there were other increasing variations in the quantities held, reaching 2,565 tonnes in 1973. In the post-war period, Italy quickly became an exporting country and for this reason benefited from large influxes of foreign currency, especially in dollars. These flows, also due to the need to comply with the Bretton Woods agreements, were also used to acquire gold quantities, similar to the main central banks (Banque de France and Bundesbank). In 1998 the Bank's gold reserve increased by an additional 518 tonnes thanks to the final closure of the REPO (retro-term) operation against ECU concluded with the ECB. The latest quantitative changes, which led to the current stocks of 2.452 tonnes, took place at the beginning of 1999, when the European Monetary Union (EMU) was launched, with 141 tonnes of metal being transferred to the ECB. The amount of gold of which the Bank of Italy is currently holding and does not own (as we read on the site and I will return later) is therefore the result of a series of events that have allowed the Institute to become, over time, one of the major holders in the world of precious metal, the fourth in the world. There are 2,452 tonnes of ingots and some less coins, stored in their vaults for 44.6 percent; abroad in some central banks for 55.4 percent, most (43.29 percent) in the United States; 6.09 in Switzerland; 5.76 percent in the United Kingdom (and there will be Brexit). The ownership of national gold reserves has surreptitiously appeared in the parliamentary debate as a topic of debate, especially after the advent of the European banking system and the stratification of national legislation, thus making it necessary to clarify legislative intervention. Under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the ECB, these are an integral part of the reserves of the euro system, together with the other national central banks and those owned by the ECB. Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (ex Article 105 of the Common European Treaty) states, in paragraph 2, that one of the fundamental tasks to be performed through the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) is to hold and manage the official foreign reserves of the Member States; at the same time, Article 30 of the Statute provides that the ECB shall have full right to hold and manage the foreign reserve assets transferred to it and to use them for the purposes set out in this Statute. More specifically, the European legislation reaffirms the detention of both explicitly in the title of Article 31 of the Statute, and in particular in the provision of paragraph 2 of the same Article, which refers to the activity of foreign reserves that remain to the national central banks after the transfers, thus highlighting no possible interference in European law regarding the property and title under which the national central banks hold such reserves, including those gold reserves, thus leaving to the field of national law the determination of the issue. The reply of 27 March of the President of the ECB Mario Draghi to the question of two MEPs confirms and clarifies this interpretation, where it makes clear that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European Banking System do not use the concept of ownership to determine competence in relation to reserves, competences relating to the holding and management of reserves. Bankitalia's holding of gold reserves is carried out under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the ESCB Statute, while its inclusion in the bank's balance sheet assets is the result of a simple agreement and does not imply any implicit right of ownership, as clearly specified in the statutes of other European central banks participating in the European System of Central Banks. There are some legislative proposals that seek and demand an authentic interpretation of the gold structure of the Bank of Italy which, as confirmed in the Senate by the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, in his reply to question 3-00622 on 21 February 2019, falls within the political discretion of the national legislator, and certainly not as I have heard in the Chamber, of free will. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe - and I also say this to illustrious senators - that it cannot represent taboos for a Parliamentary Assembly to discuss freely in order to define the ownership of the gold reserves of the Bank of Italy in strict compliance with European regulations. And then, the answer of President Draghi, the one I have just reported, does not lend itself to misunderstandings, having attributed the property of gold to the citizens, with the euro system that holds and manages this gold through Bankitalia. The latter should make a correction on its site, replacing the word "property" with "detention", which is not possession, but custody and management of a precious asset, which represents fatigue and sweat of the Italian people. That is why, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Senate on motion 104, first signed by Senators Bagnai and Bottici. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u197	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to ask a question, not so much to the senators, but to the Italians: if they feel more comfortable knowing, as Senator Lannotti said, that the Bank of Italy holds our gold reserves or if they would feel safer if these gold reserves were held by the Count Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that the answer, on the basis of which we think this debate is entirely inappropriate, is already in the rhetorical question I put to this House. We feel fully guaranteed by the role of third party and guarantee of the Bank of Italy. I want to end, because I also respect the times, saying one thing, colleagues: keep hurting yourself. But by hurting you, you do it in Italy. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). But do you speak, that you were elected by the Democratic Party? CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). This discussion is another stone to the self-harm that this majority is putting in the construction of a gigantic LEGO, which multiplies the distrust of investors and those who have to buy the Italian government bonds, who, from this discussion, will draw further elements of distrust on what is the stability and the hold of our system. We think you should stop, in the interests of savers and Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u198	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Fazzolari and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion No 77. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u201	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, on a point of order. I therefore call for the separate vote on the commitments of our motion, because they are very different commitments. While the first, in fact, is the recognition of a de facto state, that is, of rules that we have given ourselves as countries belonging to the European Union, the second and third commitments are, instead, political commitments, with which the Democratic Party asks to express itself to the Government. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the first commitment and I also think that I do not hinder the political sensitivity of the 5-star League and Movimento which, I think, especially with the interventions of Senator Bagnai and Senator Bottici, have said, at the opening of their speeches, that this debate must be cleaned of any exploitation. Our commitment is essentially to confirm, in accordance with the third indent of Article 127 (2) and Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, that is to say, the full autonomy of the Bank of Italy in the holding and management of official reserves and, within these reserves, of gold reserves. As it is not a commitment, but a recognition of a written rule shared by the countries of the Union, unlike the others, I would like the House to speak in favour of the vote on the motion by separate parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u202	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on motion No 100 tabled by Senator Ferrari. It's not approved. [[Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 100, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bagnai and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion 104. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 107 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u205	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the year of Matera, the European capital of culture, the territorial framework which welcomes it expands to include the whole of Lucania. The visitor is therefore offered, as a corollary to the extraordinary City of the Sassi, a myriad of naturalistic and archaeological sites, among which to choose, and some art cities that I will call minor only because inevitably losers in comparison with Matera. However, I would like to focus on Venosa, home of the Latin poet Orazio. Ignoring the famous carp diem, it risks missing the appointment with that unrepeatable opportunity to promote its cultural heritage and the cause, paradoxically, lies in the enormous quantity and quality of surviving goods worthy of protection and enjoyment. Too many and too important: from the extraordinary Palaeolithic park of Notarchirico to the Roman and Late Antique Venusia, with the town and its tombs, including the catacombs (Jewish, pagan and Christian) excavated in the Colle della Maddalena, up to the medieval and Renaissance village superimposed on the civitas and dominated by the mass of the Castle. Still: from the remains of the early Christian cathedral to the Holy Trinity, chosen by the Norman duke Robert Guiscardo as a family mausoleum, to the unfinished adjacent, place of unspeakable suggestion. Venosa has dozens of municipal and state cultural assets, as well as ecclesiastical ones. Leaving these last ones, almost always foolishly closed to the public, the demerits of the administration in expiration and the inanity of the municipal museum pole will soon be a memory, I hope. On the contrary, state assets suffer from too fragmented management: today, in fact, the Museum of Basilicata, which the Franceschini reform has voted for only valorization, manages exclusively museum and archaeological park, while the ABAP Superintendence, appointed solely for the protection, is responsible for the catacombs and the Paleolithic Park. With a special dispensation, these are also open to the public but only on demand and only thanks to the goodwill of officials and administrative assistants, without the guarantee of essential services such as the ticket office and toilets. Last Sunday I was in Venosa and, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, I was asked to be a promoter, with Venosino Senator Lomuti and Materana Liuzzi, of a permanent technical table that unites all the actors of the local cultural landscape, idea that five years ago the advisors of the Movimento 5 Stars launched to the city council member to culture, but that was rejected to the sender. I feel like making it my own, while I trust that, after his recent visit to Venosa, Minister Bonisoli himself realizes the sensitivity demonstrated on the spot, promoting interventions aimed at overcoming today's organizational and management deficiencies. The recovery of the former Convent of San Domenico is still beyond to come, for example, while Venosa lacks a city palace adapted to the importance of its cultural heritage. These are just a few points, the future of Venosine cultural heritage is everything to write about and the next administration, which I hope will be pentastellated, will have a decisive role to play. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u208	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as I did on 21 March, I would like to call for an urgent response to Question 3-0072, addressed to the Ministry of Justice, to which I would like to ask whether we want to prevent the abolition of the tribunal in Vasto and to guarantee to the community and the territories concerned the continued existence of offices in charge of rights and guarantees that are indispensable. The reform of judicial geography has caused many damages everywhere: even in Abruzzo, as already happened in the rest of the country, the reform has foreseen the abolition of all the detached sections of the court. The reorganization of the offices envisaged by the reform, developed by the previous Executive, de facto deprives the territories and citizens of the lower Abruzzo of fundamental garrisons of legality. I therefore believe that an urgent answer is needed and I thank you - as I did on the last occasion, thanking those who presided at that time - for any intercession of the Senate Presidency for a quick answer to the urgent question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u209	The Presidency takes note of your request and will take action in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u212	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, it was yesterday in the House that the Code Red was adopted at first reading, a law that tightens the penalties for crimes such as feminicide, while in the Senate we have approved - and it is now the law of the State - the rule that prohibits the abbreviated judgment for crimes punished with the sentence of life imprisonment, including the aggravated murder. Well, two huge responses to bloody events, to real tragedies, such as the one that struck my small town, Nuoro, in Sardinia on Sunday. Romina, a woman, a mother, who wanted to build herself a new romantic life, was killed by her ex-husband, who after breaking through the door of the house with gunshots, entered and killed Romina, who died instantly, while her new companion, Gabriel, was wounded and is now in very serious condition at the resuscitation department of the San Francesco Hospital in Nuoro. Repressive measures are no longer enough. Preventive measures for such cruel crimes must also be implemented. I am close as a woman and as an institution to the whole of Romina's family, to Gabriel's family and also to the ex-husband's family. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u215	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, today we in the Democratic Party together with all the opposition groups have tabled a motion for Radical Radio, to prevent the government's cuts from condemning it to closure. We have done so, Mr President, not out of party gain, but because we believe in democracy, in the substance of democracy, which is above all pluralism, information and knowledge, which form a free public opinion because it is mature and aware. Moreover, knowing to deliberate, the motto of Luigi Einaudi, is the same that stands in the logo of Radical Radio and is the essence of liberal democracy and the antithesis of authoritarianism, of totalitarianism, which instead feed and are based on hiding, on the dark. On the contrary, in all these years Radio Radicale has transmitted and transmits without cuts, without mediations, in full, without selecting the work of Chamber and Senate, judicial processes, congresses and demonstrations of all parties, movements, associations and carries out a public service that fills a gap. For this reason Radical Radio must live and perhaps for this reason they want to close it: it is the most political radio and for this reason it must live and perhaps for this reason they want to close it. It allows thousands of people every day to participate in Parliament's work, to attend trials, to participate in congresses. Therefore, those who want a strong and transparent democracy, those who want just justice and the rule of law, today fight to prevent the closure of Radio Radicale from putting the gag, turn off voices, opinions, ideas, take away the right of citizens to know and therefore to criticize, to protest. The attack on Radical Radio - we see it - is one with the zeroing of the Fund for pluralism and innovation of information, which affects voices such as "Avvenire" and "the manifesto" and which puts at risk thousands of workers, hundreds of newspapers of territorial realities, associationism, lay and religious volunteering, other than newspapers. Instead, it is the power that wants a condescending press, that does not want obstacles, that does not want to be disturbed; it is the power today represented by the 5 Stars and the League that, by hitting Radical Radio, is evicting what we have most important, Mr President, the right to knowledge and the right to memory, because closing Radical Radio means to destroy an archive that is the heritage of our democracy, which with over 400,000 documents is a piece of the identity of our Republic. Parliament has a duty to preserve this collective memory which recounts the political construction of our democracy, which recounts values, battles of ideas that we have the duty to pass on to the new generations. That is why, Mr President, we have tabled our motions to ask for Radical Radio to live. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u218	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, today I would like to pay tribute to an Italian of great value who recently disappeared in Australia, Giovanni Sgró, the worker, the defender of the weakest, the rights of workers, the Italian community, Mr Giovanni Sgró. He was born in 1931 and emigrated to Australia in 1952 from Seminara, along with thousands of people who were seeking a better future. Upon his arrival, he was assigned to the reception camp immigrants of Bonegilla, in the hinterland of Australia. During the day the work, in the evening the return to the camp, a dramatic situation, often not told by anyone. Jobs were scarce in the area where the reception camp was located and often those lucky enough to have one had to accept harsh conditions. John, who since he was very young was committed to defending workers' rights, did not accept this fate and was among the organizers of a demonstration, a real riot, which made Bonegilla a symbol of the history of immigration in Australia. John was a worker, a great worker; in Melbourne, where he moved from Bonegilla, he worked as a painter and decorator continuing his commitment to the weakest, who saw him protagonist of numerous battles in the Australian trade union movement, in the Labour Party, in the Italian-Australian community and in particular in the Italian associations of protection. In 1972 he founded, together with other compatriots, the Italian Federation of Migrant Workers and Families (FILEF), of which he was elected President. But it is in 1979 that John became the protagonist of an important page in Australian history, when he was elected, for the Labour Party, in the uninomial seat of Melbourne North, in the Legislative Council of the State of Victoria, the Upper House, equivalent to our Senate; the first Italian immigrant never elected in the Legislative Council, where John made his first speech, the so-called maiden speech, in Italian. I would ask you, Mr President, to give me a few more seconds to allow me to conclude. This was also possible thanks to the changes introduced a few years earlier by the Labour Government of Gough Whitlam, the principle of multiculturalism, which encouraged integration processes and made possible the active participation of many valuable immigrants in the country's public life. Just imagine that a few years before John was denied Australian citizenship, because of his political and trade union militancy. John was a great supporter and promoter of multicultural society in Parliament, where he was re-elected until 1992, when he decided to retire, and in the community. In Parliament Giovanni held many positions of responsibility, including President of various Commissions and Vice President of the Assembly from 1984 to 1989, the first immigrant to hold this prestigious post. Mr President, Giovanni Sgrò's personal history interprets the history of post-war Italian emigration and represents an original example of integration and, at the same time, recognition of the identity of immigrants in Australia. An effective and significant contribution to the construction of Australian multicultural society. Certainly John's commitment was also the result of so many personal and family sacrifices. As he said in one of his latest interviews with Melbourne's Italian-language newspaper "II Globo": I am proud of my life and of what I have achieved. On a personal level I have a beautiful wife and three beautiful daughters, who unfortunately grew up without a father because I was always engaged in meetings and meetings with my constituents. Now I can finally dedicate myself to my eight grandchildren. I conclude, of course, by interpreting the thoughts of all the senators, expressing my deep condolences to Mrs Anne, to the daughters Carla, Silvana and Luisa, to the grandchildren and to the whole family. Giovanni Sgrò has been the protagonist of a story of emigration, redemption and integration that has become an emblem and an example for generations of Italians in Italy and around the world. These are, Mr President, stories that we should remember and teach in our schools. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u219	The Presidency joins with condolences to the family and the memory you represent, Senator Jacob.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u222	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to urge the Government, through you, on the 2019 Decree of Flows. The decree is provided for in the single text on immigration, which in Article 3 provides for the definition of the quotas of non-EU nationals, both those with annual and seasonal work permits. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers was issued on 17 December 2017 and provided, for 2018, 30,850 authorized to enter for work in our country, of which 18,000 seasonal. We are talking about labour flows from countries with which Italy has diplomatic relations and labour agreements; we are talking about workers who are fundamental in all economic sectors, but above all in agriculture. I would like to remind you that, as far as dairy animal husbandry is concerned, there are many workers in companies throughout the country, but above all in the Po Valley and the harvests of the horticultural sector, the strawberry sector, the small fruits and the drupaceae see a fundamental presence of these workers. In the first months of this year Minister Salvini had substantially guaranteed that this decree would have seen the same quotas planned for 2018 and the entire agricultural sector is in great expectation, also because this year, due to the climatic conditions, the harvest campaigns are anticipating and the entire agricultural sector is in great apprehension because there is no decree for which, in fact, to date, we do not know how the next harvest campaigns will be faced. With your help, Mr President, I believe it is essential to urge the Government because the agricultural sector is looking forward to the adoption of this decree. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u225	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to ask the Presidency to speak to the Government about the continuing failure to publish the report on motorway concessions by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It is a publication that was issued, once, by the specific agency that concerned the managements of motorway concessions, then, with its abolition in 2011, it passed directly to an office of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. This report had never been published before September of the following year: for example, the 2016 report was published in September 2017. Well, we are still waiting to see the 2017 report: it was not published in September 2018 (which would have been a period of time equal to that used by the previous Government), neither in the following months of 2018, nor has it been published to date. Therefore, to date, on this huge public heritage - because highways are owned by the State and therefore by Italian citizens - we do not have the data, if not ancient, dating back to 2016. Take, for example, Autostrade for Italy, which is a society against which Minister Toninelli has hurled himself by promising sfraccelli, asking for transparency and everything else. It seems to me to be the least, the least, the transparency; as for the evictions, I am of the opinion that Italian companies should be put in competition and not evict this or that one, instead, for now, we have no competition and even have canceled the transparency. Well, from the maps of the company Autostrade for Italy, only with regard to tolls, there is an increase of 800 million euros compared to the latest data published by the Government: a fact that only with regard to a dealer, even the first in Italy, and discordant of 800 million is absolutely unacceptable. It seems that soon it will arrive, stuffed in some decree with an attractive name (growth, development, unlocking this or unlocking the other), something that concerns the highways: it is absolutely unacceptable that Parliament is called to decide without having the data, because this is a obstruction to what the Government has always done. The publication was made by all governments, center-right, center-left, coalition, technical governments. Here comes the government that promised transparency and we still have to settle for totally unreliable data. I hope the Senate presidency will make an intervention. A question would not make sense because, probably, the Government would not answer because on agendas that asked the Government to commit or at least to report a certain date for the publication of this report, the Government has expressed an opinion against and therefore have been misplaced. I therefore call on the Presidency to take action. It is nothing extraordinary: it is a question of putting together the data of various companies. Perhaps you want to hide the new gifts that this Government also wants to give to the motorway dealers: if not, the report will be published.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been informally communicated to the Groups, tomorrow's sitting will begin at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u227	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-106.ana.u228	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 4 April, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.45 p.m.
